The life and letters of Herbert Spencer...

Duncan, David, 1889-1923.
London : Methuen, [1908]
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc2.ark:/13960/t6sx65w59

                                          Public Domain in the United States
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address.
THE LIFE AND LETTERS OF
    HERBERT SPENCER
                         THE

    LIFE AND LETTERS

                                                                  OF

HERBERT SPENCER

                                                          BY

           DAVID DUNCAN, LL.D.

                      I. ATE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC INSTRUCTION, MADRAS

                                 WITH SEVENTEEN ILLUSTRATIONS

                      METHUEN & CO.

             36 ESSEX STREET W.C.

                                  LONDON
    First Published in 1908

r:

*%

.* :

       [A/I Rights Res
     TO
MY WIFE
                        PREFACE.

    A WORD or two seems necessary by way of explanation
of the publication of a biography of Mr. Herbert Spencer,
within a few years of the publication of his voluminous
Autobiography. Twenty-eight years ago, while I was at home
on furlough, Mr. Spencer obtained from me a promise to
write his Life. In subsequent years, partly owing to his

fears that his own life might not be prolonged, and partly
because he thought that my absence in India would render
it difficult, if not impossible, for me to fulfil my promise,
he made other arrangements. These other arrangements,
however, fell through. Hence the question, in a letter to
me, dated 10 May, 1893 : " Does the assent which you gave
years ago still hold, and is it likely to hold ?" On receiving
an affirmative answer, Mr. Spencer had the following para-

graph inserted in his Will : " I request that the said David
Duncan will write a Biography in one volume of moderate
size, in which shall be incorporated such biographical

materials as I have thought it best not to use myself,
together with such selected correspondence and such un-
published papers as may seem of value, and shall include
the frontispiece portrait and the profile portraits, and shall
add to it a brief account of the part of my life which has
passed since the date at which the Autobiography concludes."

     Mr. Spencer was impressed with the truth that one's
estimate of one's self is sure to err on the side of excess or
defect. To say nothing of the limitations of memory, the
mere assumption of the attitude of narrator of one's own

life is unfavourable to correct representation. Peculiarities
of intellectual and moral character also interfere with the

adjustments of lights and shades and colours. Vanity, in
one case, self-depreciation, in another, will prevent a
well-balanced estimate of one's self being arrived at.
While not trying to hide his shortcomings, Mr. Spencer,
viii. Life of Herbert Spencer

like all the finer natures, shrank from parading the more

attractive and lovable aspects of his character thus per-

"miattllinbgraainns  apparent  justification for the opinion that he was
                      and no   heart." This is one of the erroneous

opinions which will, it is hoped, be removed by perusal

of the following pages.

The existence of the AiTtobiogmpJiy, which covers sixty-

two years of Mr. Spencer's life, has added to the diffi-

culties of my task. The road traversed by him has had to

be traversed by me ; but I have endeavoured to avoid

needless repetition, while omitting nothing that has seemed

necessary to form a continuous and complete narrative.

Of the remaining twenty-one years, the volume now pub-
lished constitutes the only authoritative record. To avoid

multiplication of references, a note has been inserted at the

beginning of each chapter from chapter i. to chapter xvi.

to show the corresponding chapters in the Antobiogniphy.

I have not aimed at giving an exposition or criticism of

the philosophy of Evolution. Even had such an aim been

in accordance with Mr. Spencer's wishes, it would have

been impossible, within the prescribed limits, to do justice

either to the Life or to the Philosophy, had the attainment

of both ends been attempted. Expositions and estimates of

his Philosophy have been plentiful enough. The fact of the

matter is that we stand as yet too near the stupendous edi-

fice to form a correct idea of its proportions and grandeur.

The letters, so freely quoted in the following pages, will,

however, it is hoped, while indicating the growth of

Mr. Spencer's striking and many-sided character, throw new

light upon the development of his scheme of thought.
Very important in this respect is the appendix on " The

Filiation of Ideas," written by him in 1898-99, and left for

publication in this volume. Being an intellectual history

of himself, it elucidates the natural evolution of the Evolu-

tion theory, besides serving as a sketch plan of the Synthetic

Philosophy. In itself an exceedingly valuable document,

its value is enhanced by the fact that it was his final con-

tribution to the theory of evolution.

Mr. Spencer outlived most of his contemporaries and,

as a consequence, my opportunities of direct consultation

with literary and scientific friends, with whom he was on
Preface                                             ix.

terms of friendship and intimacy, have been few. Even

his correspondence with those who pre-deceased him has

in several cases disappeared. To those, however, who have

kindly placed his letters at my disposal, or given me per-

mission to publish their letters to him, or favoured me

with personal reminiscences, I have to express my grateful

thanks. To my co-trustee, Dr. H. Charlton Bastian, and
to Mr. Henry R. Tedder, Secretary and Librarian of the

Athenaeum, both of whom have assisted me by reading

proofs and by many valuable suggestions, I owe a special
debt of gratitude. Mr. Walter Troughton, besides placing
at my disposal his intimate knowledge of Mr. Spencer's life

from 1889 to 1903, has been good enough to relieve me
entirely of correspondence and arrangements connected
with the preparation of the illustrations. Though his help
has been rendered in great measure out of regard for
Mr. Spencer's memory, he has at the same time earned my

cordial thanks.

                                                    D. DUNCAN.

Office of Mr. Herbert Spencer's Trustees,

             \V1iitcouib House,
                             Whitcomb Street, W.C.

     9 February, 1908.
CONTENTS.

                                    CHAPTER I.                        PACE

FAMILY HISTORY AND PARENTAGE                                             i

                                   CHAPTER II.                        7

CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH (April, 1820 November, 1837)

                                CHAPTER III.                          22

ENGINEERING (November, 1837 April, 1841)

                                   CHAPTER IV.        Dec., 1844)...  33

LITERATURE WOOED, BUT NOT WON (April, 1841

                                   CHAPTER V.   December, 1848) ...   50

ENGINEERING ONCE MORE (January, 1845

                                   CHAPTER VI.                        57
His FIRST BOOK (December, 1848 July, 1853)

                               CHAPTER VII.                           71

A NEW PSYCHOLOGY (July, 1853 December, 1857)

                               CHAPTER VIII.    1858  May, 1860)      85

THE UNIFICATION OF KNOWLEDGE (January,

                                   CHAPTER IX.                        100

FIRST PRINCIPLES (May, 1860 February, 1863)

                                   CHAPTER X.                         108

BIOLOGY (September, 1862 March, 1867)

                                  CHAPTER XI.                         126

SUNSHINE AND SHADOW (December, 1865 July, 1867)
xii. Life of Herbert Spencer

                               CHAPTER XII.       Oct., 1872)    *

PSYCHOLOGY AND DESCRIPTIVE SOCIOLOGY (July, 1867                137

                            CHAPTER XIII.  January, 1874) ...   156

THE STUDY OF SOCIOLOGY (December, 1869

                                 CHAPTER XIV.       1874

DISTASTE FOR HONOURS AND CEREMONIAL (January,                   168
       December, 1877)

THE SECULARIZATION      CHAPTER XV.          Oct., 1879)  ... 192

                    OF MORALS (Jan., 1878

                                  CHAPTER XVI.            ... 204

EGYPT AND AMERICA (November, 1879 December, 1882)

                              CHAPTER XVII.         1883

A POLITICAL CREED FOR TRUE LIBERALISM (January,                 227

       December, 1885)

                    CHAPTER XVIII.

RELIGIOUS DISCUSSION A SUPPRESSED BOOK (March, 1883

December, 1885)     ...                                         251

                                 CHAPTER XIX.     Sept., 1889) 269

THE FACTORS OF ORGANIC EVOLUTION (Jan., 1886

                                  CHAPTER XX.     Dec., 1891) 292

IN DEFENCE OF FREEDOM AND JUSTICE (Sept., 1889

                                 CHAPTER XXI.             1892

ALTRUISM AS A FACTOR IN SOCIAL EVOLUTION (January,              311
         June, 1893)

                              CHAPTER XXII.  October, 1895) 329

LATTER DAY CONTROVERSIES (November, 1889

                             CHAPTER XXIII.       Novem-

COMPLETING THE SYNTHETIC PHILOSOPHY (June, 1893                 353

        ber, 1896)

CONGRATULATIONS        CHAPTER XXIV.                            381

                 (November, 1896 January, 1901)
                       Contents                                              xiii.

REVISION OF BIOLOGY     CHAPTER XXV.                                   1895     GE
         April, 1900)
                       AND FIRST PRINCIPLES (October,                        395
                                                                  ...

                                CHAPTER XXVI.                                424

INORGANIC EVOLUTION

                             CHAPTER XXVII.                                  446

His LAST BOOK (July, 1900 April. 1902)

                             CHAPTER XXVIII.                                 460

THE CLOSE OF LIFE (April, 1902 December, 1903)

CHARACTERISTICS         CHAPTER XXIX.                                        489

                 AND PERSONAL REMINISCENCES

                                 CHAPTER XXX.                                512

SPENCER'S PLACE IN THE HISTORY OF THOUGHT

                       APPENDICES

A "PHYSICAL TRAITS AND SOME SEQUENCES." By Herbert                           537
                                                                             533
           Spencer ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...                           577

B. "THE FILIATION OF IDEAS." By Herbert Spencer                              588
                                                                             590
C. LIST OF HERBERT SPENCER'S WRITINGS                                        593
D. ACADEMIC AND OTHER HONOURS OFFERED TO HERBERT

           SPENCER

E. UNPUBLISHED LETTER ON THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS ...

       INDEX
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

Portrait, from a photograph  taken when he was
      73 years of age
                                                              Frontispiece
27, Exeter Street, Derby, from a photograph by Richard   to face page 7
      Keene, Ltd., Derby

3 r, Wilmot Street, Derby, from a photograph by Richard      9
       Keene, Ltd., Derby

Portrait, from a sketch taken by Mr. Field Talfourd

when Herbert Spencer was 19 years of age       ...           26
                                                             34
Portrait of Mr. George Holme, from a sketch made by

Herbert Spencer between 1841 and 1844 ...      ...

Facsimile of signature in 1842 ...    ...                ... page 37

Portrait of Mrs. Ordish, from a sketch made by

Herbert Spencer between 1841 and 1844 ...      ... to face page 38

Portrait of Mr. Edward Lott, from a sketch made by

Herbert Spencer between 1841 and 1844 ...      ...           ,, 47

Portrait, from a photograph taken when he was writing

the Principles of Psychology in 1855           ... ...   ,,  ,, 77
                                                         ,,
Facsimile of proof of page 145 of the second volume          ,,123
      of the Principles of Biology ... ... ... ...

Portrait, from a photograph taken when he was 46 years

of age ...                          ... ... ...          ,, 127
                                                         ,, 308
Loch Aline, Argyllshire, from a photograph               ,, 309

Ardtormsh House, Loch Aline, from a photograph ...       ,, 392
                                                         ... page 459
Portrait, after the painting by Sir Hubert von
      Herkomer ... ... ... ... ... ...

Facsimile of handwriting on his 82nd birthday  ^..

The study and bedroom at 5, Percival Terrace,

Brighton, from a photograph by Miss Killick    ... to face page 469

Tomb in Highgate Cemetery, trom a photograph by              page 482
      Mr. T. W. Hill
       LIFE AND LETTERS

                                                 OF

HERBERT SPENCER.

            CHAPTER I.

FAMILY HISTORY AND PARENTAGE.

 TOWARDS the end of the sixteenth century Thomas and
 Balthazar de Henzu or de Hennezel, with other Huguenots,
 driven by religious persecution from Lorraine, to which
 they seem to have migrated from Bohemia, took up their
 abode near Stourbridge. Other immigrants, apparently
 also of Bohemian origin and bearing the name afterwards
 known as Hemus, appeared on the scene about the same
 time. A century earlier, families of the name of Brettell,

 connected seemingly with the de Breteuils of Normandy,
; had settled in the same localty.

      The neighbourhood of Stourbridge was a favourite resort
bf foreign immigrants. Tradition has it that the famous
 y.lay was discovered in the sixteenth century by wandering
  llass-makers from Lorraine, and that the manufacture of

  llass, begun about 1556, was introduced by Hungarians.
  Ihese traditions are in harmony with the supposition that

 tlie Henzeys, Hemuses, &c., migrated from Bohemia to
  jorraine, and thence to England, taking with them their

sldll in the manufacture of glass. They would naturally
 jbttie in a locality where they could carry on to advantage
 f.heir native industry, especially if it had the additional
/attraction of being the adopted home of other exiles like

 themselves.

      Marriages between families thus brought together would

NOTE. Autobiography,  chaps, ii., iii.
                      i.,
                                       i.,
2          Life of Herbert Spencer    [CHAP. I.

be likely to take place. Unions of Brettells and Henzeys
are, in fact, recorded in the sixteenth century, and the
register of the parish of Oldswinford, within which Stour-
bridge has grown up, shows how common these unions
were in the two centuries following. One entry is of
special interest. In June, 1740, Joseph Bret tell, a farmer
of Wordsley, married Elizabeth Hemus. Joseph Brettell

and Elizabeth Hemus were Spencer's great-grandparents

on the mother's side. To him the chief interest in this

genealogy lay in the evidence it furnished of descent from
families who had resisted arbitrary authority. The non-
conformity of the Brettells, Henzeys, and Hemuses in

religious matters remained with them. Besides a daughter,

Jane, Joseph and Elizabeth Brettell had two sons, Jeremiah
and John, who became well-known Wesleyan ministers.
One Joseph Brettell, a relative of Jane Bretteli's, was licensed
as a local preacher by John Wesley. A copy of a letter,
dated March 25, 1785, shows the founder of Wesleyanism to
have been a strict disciplinarian, who took care that his

adherents did not interpret non-conformity as liberty to

do as they pleased.

    You think it your duty to call sinners to repentance. Make
full proof hereof and we shall rejoice to own you as a fellow

labourer.

     Observe. You are not to ramble up and down, but to go
where I direct and there only.

                                                        (signed) JOHN WESLEY.

    Jane Brettell married John Holmes, a widower, whom
Spencer remembered as a broken-down old man, whose

"strong sense of responsibility and obligation remained

dominant even when his faculties were failing." The verses

referred to in the Autobiography (i., 15) as exhibiting "some
small power of literary expression," caused John Holmes
searchings of heart as to the consistency of verse-making

with religious principles. "Some of the expressions, I

know, are  "vtehroyulgivhelyt,h"eyhe   writes to his daughter by way  of
apology,                              may be over-looked, as poetry   is

confined to words." About Mrs. Holmes it may be said
that, in judging of her character as portrayed by her grand-
CHAP,          Family History and Parentage
\                                                                          3

          i.]son one has to bear in mind that his estimate was derived

mainly from his father, who was biassed, owing to her

long opposition to her daughter's marriage.
     The Derbyshire Spencers with whom we are concerned

had lived in the parish of Kirk Ireton for centuries. The

earliest entry in the parish register                         dated 1581, but
                                                              a is
Spencer's ancestry cannot, with certainty, be traced further         I:
                                                                        a
back than to about the middle of the seventeenth century,
at which time there lived two brothers, Thomas and William

Spencer. From Thomas the lineage can be traced to 1762,
when Spencer's grandfather, Matthew, was born. The

family property at this time consisted of                                  few houses

and two fields. Early in life Matthew Spencer settled in

Derby, becoming assistant in St. Peter's parish school. In

the Derby Mercury for December, 1790, Mr. Frear, the
retiring head of the school, recommends as his successor

Matthew Spencer, who had been his assistant for many

years. Twelve months later Matthew Spencer advertises                      aa
school in the Green Lane, " where he instructs youths in

Reading, Writing, Merchants' accounts, Mensuration (with
Land Surveying), Algebra, &c. He can accommodate

few young gentlemen at his house. Terms Entrance fee,

     is. Board and Education, 13 guineas per annum." On
his death in 1831 the Kirk Ireton property passed to his son
George, in consideration of his long residence with his

father and of his having rendered assistance in the school                 ;

the Green Lane house was left to the youngest son,

William.

Matthew Spencer's wife, Catherine Taylor, was the

grand parent whom Spencer knew best, she having lived till
                                           " She showed," says
h"enowams a2r3keydeainrsteollfecatugea.l  superiority. Indeed,           her grandson,
                                                                         remember my

mother expressing her wonder that from her and from my

grandfather there should have proceeded number of sons

who,   on the  whole, were decidedly marked in                "ththeeir    abilities."
But   of the   superiority of her moral nature,                            evidences

are unquestionable. My own recollections verify the uni-

form testimony of her sons that she had all the domestic

virtues in high degrees." About the age of nineteen she
came under the influence of John Wesley, whom she heard
preach in the market-place of Derby amid much insult and
4  Life of Herbert Spencer                                 [CHAP. i.

persecution, and whose company and conversation she had

afterwards frequent opportunities of  "enfojormyinegd.  a  fine  family
     The six children who grew up

in point of physique, all the sons but one ranging from

5 ft. 10 in. to 6 ft., well-looking in feature, and though not
as a family very robust, still tolerably well-balanced." They

were characterised by individuality almost amounting to

eccentricity, by pugnacious tenacity in holding to their

opinions, by self-assertiveness, and by disregard for autho-

rity. In Henry the family traits were softened by the saving

grace of humour ; in John they were intensified by over-
weening egotism. Remembrance of the genial nature and

kindly ways of the former was one of the motives that, in

after life, prompted Spencer's generosity to the children and

grandchildren ; whereas the unfavourable impression made

on his youthful mind by what he knew and heard about

the latter was never entirely effaced. Thomas, the best

known of the family, was the uncle whose influence on

the nephew was the most marked and abiding. William

diverged the least from current opinions, and perhaps on

that account made less impression on his nephew intellec-

tually ; but the memory of his fine, generous character was

cherished by Spencer to the last.

   Spencer's father is described as a singularly handsome

man. Although his constitution gave way a year or two

after his marriage, and ill-health dogged his footsteps for

the remainder of his days, he lived to the age of 76.
Before he married he had saved enough to purchase several

small houses, and to advance money to enable Thomas to

go to Cambridge. By 1824, however, sickness and the

failure of the lace-machine venture had told on his

finances ; whereas Thomas had      already  entered on a career
of moderate prosperity, leading    George   to say : " Now the

scales are turned upon us; you the lender, the borrower I."

With intellectual abilities in some respects remarkable

there went a singular lack of well-balanced judgment in

practical affairs. In some things absurdly economical, he

was in others absurdly  extravagant.  He did  "         not weigh the
cost of means against   the value of                    While always
                                      ends.

occupied, he was often occupied rather about trivialities

than about large things : large things had a tendency to
CHAP,  a i.]  Family History and Parentage
                                                                  a

                                                                                 :

                                                                               I
                                                                                                     I5
paralyze him." He himself confesses this " find that

have, and particularly since my illness, constant propensity

to neglect those things of the greatest consequence and am

particularly punctual in attending to those of the least."

His studies were mainly in science, natural causation being

the ruling idea. Of ethical, political, and metaphysical

questions, he never made        a       systematic study. As for

literature, books were read less for their subject-matter

than as field for verbal criticism. His composition was

appropriate, clear, and pure, though not forcible. Firmness,

reaching almost to obstinacy, argumentativeness, disregard

of authority, censoriousness were his in high degree.

Excessively conscientious himself, he was prone to be

suspicious of others. Writing from Paris                             to his future
wife he gives as reason for addressing the
       it                                                            letter to " H.

                 !

                             a
Holmes" instead of "Miss Holmes," that the gentleman
who was to convey the letter would "not be tempted to

open " "In public affairs especially, instead of taking

some obvious cause for an act, he was habitually seeking

for some secret, underhand intention as having prompted

it." In dress and social intercourse, as well as in opinions,

his independence showed itself. While frank and suave in

manner, no man laid less store by the conventions of

society. He took an             active  part  in most of the great
movements of his day.                   eyes  were ever open to any
                                 " His

evil to be rectified or good to be done."

In common with his brothers (writes Spencer), he was
brought up under strong religious impressions and up to the
                                                                  ;

age of 35 he was in the habit of going through the usual
religious observances not. however, domestically. But with
the extension of his independent thinking in all directions he

gradually became more and more alien in religious opinion
from those he was brought up with and, giving up the worship
                                :

                                           it a
                                                               ;

                                                               a
of the Wesleyans, attended for considerable number of years
a chapel of the Quakers not because he agreed with them in
their peculiarities, but because was course which allowed
of free scope to his own views. He had become very much
opposed to all forms of priesthood, and among others to that

of the Wesleyans                and doubt not that the Quakers com-
                  ;

                            I

mended themselves to him as not having any order of priests.
In later life he separated himself still further from current
opinions, ending, indeed, by agreeing in the religious views
                                                                     I
6               Life of Herbert Spencer                         [CHAP. i.

had set forth. Not, indeed, that he ever distinctly said so ; but
observations he made in his last years concerning the current
creed implied that he had abandoned it. And this illustrates
what was a speciality of his nature shown in an unusual degree ;
namely, that he remained plastic in opinion to a very late period
in life. Most men, and still more most women, early become
fixed. He went on modifying, and continued his modifiability
to the last.

   Spencer's mother, Harriet Holmes, is described as of

medium height, with a spare figure, and, when young, as

decidedly good-looking. A journal she kept for. over a

year when she was eighteen reveals an amiable character,

strong on the moral side. This also comes out in a letter

teongahgeermpeanrtentswitwh ithGeroerfgeerenScepentocerth:eir"  opposition   to her
                                                                Whatever    it may

                and ever has been my firm intention
cost me, it     I is,
                          it,
from the first not to act in opposition to your wishes

upon the subject; and though we never shall be of one

opinion respecting             yet you may rest quite easy in the

assurance that have quite given up the thought of it."

In several respects her character belied the Hussite and

Huguenot extraction her son was at some pains to make

out. She was always more ready to conform than to

dissent. With the intellectual pursuits of her husband or

her son she had little sympathy, and being absolutely

sincere she could not pretend to an interest she did not

feel. Though she cared little for literature, her style was

clear and not wanting in felicities of expression. Evenness

and sweetness of temper, conscientiousness in the discharge

of duties, readiness to sacrifice herself for others, were life-

long characteristics. In her journal, chapel news and

preachers bulk  largely. One   of  the entries                  would have
held good for   every Sunday   in  her grown                    up life "
                                                                it
                                                                                                         :
                                                                                           I
should not like to miss going to chapel, would not seem

at all like Sunday." Although her husband was not want-

ing in tender solicitude for her, the advent of ill-health

and straightened means tended to cloud their domestic

happiness. The manifestations of affection were often

obscured on her side by want of sympathy with his intel-

lectual pursuits, on his side by an exacting and censorious

attitude.
No. 27 EXETER STREET, DERBY.
                CHAPTER II.

                CHILDHOOD AND YOUTH.

                 (April, 1820 November, 1837.)

THE house in which George Spencer and his wife

began their married life, and in which their son first saw

the light on April 27, 1820, was 12, Exeter Row, now 27,
Exeter Street, the fourth entry from the Exeter Arms. In

the baptism and naming of the child his father was not a

man to be led by custom. Yet he was alive to the bearing

of his non-conforming attitude on the future of his son.

When it was suggested by his brother Thomas that the

baptism should take place in church, as it might be of

importance to   the boy hereafter to be in the Parish Register,
he wrote : " I  almost feel inclined to ask S [the incum-

bent of St. Peter's Church] if it would be allowed to
register the birth of a child in the Parish Register, without

having him baptized. And so to have him baptized at

the chapel." The ceremony was performed on June 19
by John Kershaw, birth and baptism being registered at
the Methodist Register Office, 66, Paternoster Row, London,
on July i. The name "Herbert" had been suggested by

lines written in a churchyard of Richmond, in Yorkshire,

by Herbert Knowles, forming the conclusion of an article

on "Cemeteries and Catacombs in Paris," in the Quarterly

Review for April, 1819.
     Of the early years of the boy's life little is known ; but

one may infer that they were lacking in positive enjoy-
ments. His parents were in ill-health and full of anxiety,

nor was he himself robust. He was, moreover, without

the companionship of brothers and sisters. For though

four brothers and four sisters succeeded him, none of

NOTE Autobiography,  i.,  chaps, iv., v., vi., vii., viii.
8  Life of Herbert Spencer  [CHAP. n.

them lived more than a few days, except a sister, Louisa,

a year younger than himself, who died at the age of
2 years and 9 months. 1 How depressing the boy's sur-
roundings were may be gathered from his father's letters.

     This appears an important crisis in my life (he writes to
his brother in 1823). I shall either from this time be tolerably
comfortable in my circumstances and health, or else I shall
soon be reduced by ill-health to a state of wretchedness
bordering on insanity.

     January, 1824. I am still more convinced than ever that
I shall never continue healthy with my present employment
the stooping, the confinement, the sameness, the trial of
temper and patience that it constantly affords, have a bad
effect. . . . Our children were well when we got home.
Harriet appears much more happy now that I am better. She
is very kind too kind and I don't sufficiently return it it
appears to be my temper to expect too much.

   The choice of a new occupation, important as a means

of livelihood, was even more important as giving him some-

thing to think about other than his troubles. Among the

employments suggested were land-surveying, tanning, and

an agency in the South of France. Mrs. Mozley urged him
to enter the Church. " She thinks I am the most adapted to

that of anything." But what he was most inclined to was

lace manufacture, for which there was at that time a mania,

and which had the further attraction of calling his inven-

tiveness into play. When in London in 1823 inspecting
patents, he wrote to his wife : " I shall examine particularly

whether there is any machine of the kind you and I are

about to invent." What came of this invention does not

appear ; but in the spring of next year he tells Thomas

that he and the other brothers had purchased a machine.
" At present we have it in contemplation to convert the

...schoolroom into a shop for lace frames and learn to work
the frames ourselves.  I do not intend to teach any

more if I can obtain a living in any other way. . . .

    1 In the Autobiography (i., 64, note t) he says there were five other
children. This is a mistake. Five were born after Louisa's death and
two while she was alive.
No. *i WILMOT STREET, DERBY.
1820-37]  Childhood and Youth                         9

I have several plans in my head that you may possibly think

are visionary, but it is one way I take to keep up my spirits

under my heavy trials."

This venture proving a failure, the family moved about

the middle of 1824 to Nottingham, mainly on account of its
advantages as a centre for the lace industry. Commercially

the move was not a success ; but in other respects it was

beneficial. His own health, as well as that of his wife,

improved, and with better health his spirits rose. How it

fared with their son the few letters that exist help one little

to understand, but the passing references are such as to

rouse one's sympathies for the fair-haired, lonely child.

Nevertheless, he enjoyed more of a country life than he

could have had in Derby, wandering, for the most part

by himself, over the neighbouring common. 1 Not being

pressed by lessons, he was behind children of his age in book

knowledge. At seven his writing and drawing are referred

to approvingly by others as well as by his father, who kept

his first drawing book, consisting "of drawings of his own

choice and chiefly of his own imagination." But nowhere

is there the smallest word of praise of his reading.

     Early in 1827 the family returned to Derby, settling in
the house No. 8 (afterwards 17, now 31) Wilmot Street.
His father resumed teaching. For some three years Herbert

attended Mr. Mather's school, afterwards going to one kept

by his uncle William. Tangible evidences of his attain-

ments  are (i) a copybook written in 1828, of which   a teacher,
whose  opinion was invited by the present writer,
                                                      says, " we

can get nothing like it even from boys several years older" ;
(2) two books Hymns for Infant Minds and Watts' Divine
and Moral Songs. At the end of each hymn is written the

date in 1828 or 1829 when it was committed to memory.
From the number thus dated one may infer that his memory

was not below the average. The tendency to set authority

at nought was more than usually strong : the fitful nature

of his father's discipline and the gentleness of his mother's

sway exerting no efficient check on his self-will. Out of

'One of his memoranda says: "Spread Eagle, Aspley Terrace,

Alfreton Road, Nottingham   the house (now changed into an inn) where
we lived in mv childhood."
io  Life of Herbert Spencer               [CHAP. n.

doors he was allowed to follow his bent a liberty which
on one occasion would have cost him his life but for the

presence of mind and courage of George Holme, then a lad
some years his senior. Fishing was already a favourite
pursuit, the Derwent as it flowed through the town being
easy of access. One day, when fishing from the roadway
that crossed the stream near the canal and weir, he lost his

balance, fell into the stream just where the water rushed out
with considerable force from beneath the roadway, and

was carried rapidly down. Hearing a shout among the

bystanders, George Holme, who was on the other side,

looked up and saw a boy being swiftly carried away.
Instantly he ran along the right bank, throwing off his

jacket as he ran, plunged into the stream and swam across
to intercept the struggling boy, whom he seized and with
difficulty brought safely to the bank. Thus began an

acquaintanceship which in due course ripened into a warm
and life-long friendship. On a specially bound copy of his
works presented to Mr. Holme in 1893 one may read on
the fly-leaf of the first volume the grateful inscription :

                                    FROM

               HERBERT SPENCER

                      TO HIS OLD FRIEND

                  GEORGE HOLME

          WITHOUT WHOSE COURAGEOUS AID

                   RENDERED IN BOYHOOD
                    NEITHER THIS WORK

    NOR ANY OF THE ACCOMPANYING WORKS

               WOULD EVER HAVE EXISTED.

     For the years from seven to thirteen one is dependent
mainly on the Autobiography and on memoranda by his
father. Written late in life, the father's reminiscences could

not fail to reflect in some measure the consciousness of

the eminence the son had attained to, and Spencer's own

recollections could not but be coloured by interpretations
derived from subsequent experience. Little progress was
made in routine school lessons, yet he acquired an un-
usual amount of miscellaneous information. When barely
eleven he attended Dr. Spurzheim's lectures on Phreno-

logy. Before thirteen he assisted his father in preparing
experiments in physics and chemistry for teaching purposes.
1820-37]  Childhood and Youth                                                         11

With insect and plant life he had an acquaintance far in

advance of other boys, and was skilled in sketching from

Nature. Works of fiction were perused with zest. Left

much to himself, the tendency to dwell with his own

thoughts was strengthened. On the intellectual side one

of the chief results of his father's training was the habit it

fostered of ever seeking an explanation of phenomena,

instead of relying on authority of regarding everything

as naturally caused, and not as the result of supernatural

agency. On the moral side its weakest feature was the

encouragement it gave to the inherent tendency of a head-

strong boy to set authority at defiance. When taking

account of the formative agencies that shaped the boy's

character one must bear in mind that he shared little in

games with those of his own age, so that the influences

which the young are usually subjected to by association

with one another were in his case comparatively slight. He

was much with grown-up people, most of them of marked

individuality. From his reminiscences of his grandparents

one may infer that, with one exception, they excited in him

a feeling of awe, such as would be a barrier to close and

"afmfeectlaionncahtoely-ilnotoekricnogursoel.d   His   gra"nIdfnaetvheerr    Spencer    was a
                                                man."                      saw him    laugh."

In an ordinary boy, the impression produced by the failing

faculties or oddities of aged relatives is counteracted by

the buoyant, objective spirits of youth. In the case of a

thoughtful boy, living mostly with grown-up people, listen-

ing to and taking part in their serious conversation, it is

different. As regards the influence, both moral and intel-

lectual, of his uncles and his father, it is hardly possible to

overestimate it. Towards current opinions their attitude

was invariably critical, their conclusions being reached by

reference to underlying principles, not to authority. Rarely

were their discussions enlivened by lighter touches of wit

or humour. Terribly in earnest, they did not debate for

debating's sake or for victory. Literature, history, and fine

art concerned them less than scientific, religious, and social

questions, which were discussed in the boy's hearing from

day to day. Thus early were sown the seeds of that interest

in social, political, and religious topics which he retained to

the lat.
12           Life of Herbert Spencer                            [CHAP. n.

    Meanwhile, his education in the scholastic sense was daily

becoming a more pressing matter. He was now thirteen ;

independent and self-willed ; with a decided predilection
for certain subjects not included in the school curriculum

of those days, and a still more decided aversion to certain

other subjects then deemed important for every boy to
know ; fonder of things than words ; more inclined to think
for himself than to acquaint himself with the thoughts of
others. How to deal with such a boy was calculated to

rouse serious reflections in the father and the uncles. As

Huxley said on reading the account of Spencer's boyhood
and youth in the Autobiography: "Men of that force of

character, if they had been less wise and less self-restrained,

would have played the deuce with the abnormal chicken

hatched among them." 1

    A letter from the parsonage of Hinton Charterhouse

suggested a  way out    of  t"hesevedriafflicutilmtye.s    Rev. Thomas
Spencer and  his wife  had                               wished to have

one of our little nephews with us, and as we know you

cannot spare Herbert, who is a great help to his mother

and a comfort to you both, I have considered little Henry

the next one we would like to fix upon." Herbert's parents
                       send him, they taking Henry u
at once proposed   to  parties " it was thought. The            a       nice
arrangement for   all                                                   nice
                                                                "

arrangement" was soon to be disturbed. Nothing had been

said about it to Herbert, who accompanied his parents on

what he thought was a pleasant holiday. A few days after

his arrival his uncle set him to learn Euclid. That was bad

enough. But when, about a month later, he was told that

he was not to return home with his parents, his feelings

were very bitter. Accustomed as he had been to take part

in the discussion of family affairs, here was a matter in

which he had the best right to take part, settled two months

ago without his knowledge ! Distaste for study and dislike

to restraint, both pretty strong feelings, had a powerful ally

in this sense of unfair treatment. The consequences were

soon to appear. Early one morning, within two weeks of

his parents' return, without a hint of his intention, he left

the house and set out for Derby. Of his adventures on that

    1 Life of Professor Huxley, ii., 146 ; Autobiography,  i.,  78-90.
1820-37]              Childhood and Youth                                                         13

and the two following days graphically depicted by him-

self in the Autobiography                   (i., 95-7)        many will share the
opinion expressed by Mr.                                    Galton : " Great as is
                                            Francis

the wonder and admiration excited by your later achieve-

ments, they hardly exceed that I felt at the account of the

thirteen-year-old boy, when heart sick and starving, walking

48 miles on one day, 47 on the next, and the balance of the
distance to be travelled on the third. It is marvellous."

    No attempt was made by uncle or aunt to overtake the

run-away a neglect explained though not justified by the

indignation felt at the insult he had heaped upon them.

His mother was "ashamed and mortified at Herbert's mis-
conduct," and his father passed " the whole of the night

without sleep, ruminating on the character and prospects of

my untoward son." Both tried to enlist the sympathies of
the uncle and aunt on behalf of the boy, who " seemed

almost distracted."

  ...I asked him (nworotHteeherlhpeispiltief"adt;h"eorIr),    how     he could      act so un-
                                                            know                   wrong, but
kindly to you.                                                      it   is  very  way that I
I felt as I could                                            else,  "        the
                                                                        all

             I         on crying and thinking what                             would become
            I         sure," says he, with much
...wofasmceo.m" ing",kept                                                    '                    uI
                am
don't know what will become of me.                                             emphasis,
                                                                        I know my uncle
and aunt wish me well and I should have many advantages
in my learning if I had stopped. But everything is so different.
I can't bear and you will but let me stop at home mean to
            it,                                                              I I,
                                                                                    I
                  I if
work harder than ever did before." "But," said "you know
yovuerryun.dcelesiraubnldeerfsotranydosu."Lat"inAyme,uchwabsetttheer    than
is                                          I                           Latin    do, and that
                                                it                             that made me
think so of home, for thought should never be able to bear
                 It
                    I
staying in my bedroom by myself all the winter studying my
Latin Grammar.          was different with my Geometry,
                                                                                       I if is Iwas

beginning to be very fond of Euclid. . . . Everything                                             so

different,  never knew what home was till now, and you
    I
         I
will only try me I'll be very different boy from what was
                                         a

before went."

     Within a    fortnight                he was again at Hinton. " His
manner ever     since his                arrival," his uncle wrote, " has been

particularly pleasing. There                is              quietness about him and
                                                a

an evident desire to be satisfied." About Latin he tells his
father " You will perhaps be surprised when tell you
    I                                                                              I
          :

                                     it
that begin to like better." French was taken up with
14              Life of Herbert Spencer                                 [CHAP. n.

the New Year, and Greek in March. That he had no

aptitude for the classics, but studied them from a sense of

duty, is shown  by"  a letter to       his  uncle             during a  visit home
in the autumn.       As I now                that             the dead   languages
                                       see

are so useful in almost every science, I have made a

determination to conquer them if possible." Notwithstand-

ing this determination, the task was eventually given up as

hopeless.

     The importance of a correct, clear, and forcible style
was frequently touched upon in letters from his father. Yet
it is surprising how little stress was laid by either father or
uncle on general reading. His letters, though not unfre-

quently marred by mis-spelling, faulty grammar, and hasty
composition, are, nevertheless, in both matter and form,

remarkable productions for a boy of from thirteen to sixteen.

"You said in your last letter you would have .sent me a

list of the words I spelt wrong, only that you thought it
would be unwelcome ; do not think so, as I am very
desirous of improving in my spelling." Not that his father

was remiss in fault-finding, for he was a constant and

unsparing critic. Shortly after the run-away adventure,

Algebra had been taken up with zest. Presently his uncle
wrote : " His talents for Mathematics, I should say, are of
                                        For Trigonometry he
a  develirgyht,"hig"hforortdheatr."is                                   expressed
                                       my feeling towards it."
"                                                                       The sixth

book of Euclid he did not like so well as the first four
books, " because I do not think the demonstrations are so

palpable as in those books." As for arithmetic " I am

principally deficient in the rudimental parts; and as it will

be a great inconvenience to me if ever I become a teacher

to be deficient in those parts, I intend to practise these

when 1 have  cboengvaenniPeenrtspoepcptiovretu, naitnieds.""     Under his father's
guidance he                                                   was much surprised

to find that the principle was so very simple, and the only

difficulty that I have yet had is in the application of this
principle, which requires to be different in almost every
problem, which will be a very good thing to rouse the
powers of invention, which in me are rather dormant."
Early in May, 1835, he had said : " I am able to do

problems much better than equations for two reasons :

first, because I take a greater interest in problems as being
1820-37]  Childhood and Youth                                15

something that requires ingenuity and not merely mechanical

exertion of the mind ; and secondly, because in problems

there are seldom such complicated equations as those that

are given as equations."   art  of  sketching  from  nature  first "

    "Be sure to place the

was his father's repeated  advice.    In 1834 he made a      sketch
of his uncle's house, in            he thought he had
                           which                             " suc-

ceeded  pretty well." A     year later  "  he  sent home a plan
of the  parsonage and      grounds,        as  I think it may be

pleasing to my grandmother and amusing to Henry [whom
he was wont to call 'the usurper' for having taken his

place], and perhaps improving to myself."

From home he wrote to his uncle in the autumn of 1835 :

...Since I wrote you I have been chiefly studying chemistry.
        I found the subject of crystallization very interesting
indeed. Since I have been at home I have had many inter-
esting discussions with my father on natural and moral
philosophy. On one occasion I asked him his opinion on that
subject which we were discussing one day at Hinton, I mean
the theory of friction in some instances being caused by
attraction.

The time not given up to mental improvement was

occupied by pursuits, few of which could be called recre-

ations. Though not insensible to its value, his uncle's view

of life was too serious to leave much room for play as

now understood. The future preacher of the gospel of

relaxation was brought up to seek relaxation in doing

something useful. And, indeed, he was always ready to

work   in the garden or  in the house. In painting the gates
his "  everyday clothes  were so soiled that my uncle has

purchased me another pair, the jacket and waistcoat of

which are of middling priced blue cloth and the trousers of

corduroy." Here was a chance for his father. "There was
                                               clothes ' we thought
an expression in your letter    'a pair of       "
remarkable. What should it                          With the house-
                                have been      ?

hold he identified himself. Certain alterations in the house
" we >: found to be great improvements. " We have been

very busy buying and distributing the clothes for the

clothing club, so that I have hardly any time to myself."

Opportunities for fishing or riding were seldom missed.
16          Life of Herbert Spencer                           [CHAP. n.

" I have been learning to skait, and although I have not

skaitecl more than seven hours I have made great progress

and shall soon he able to skait well ; indeed, my uncle says
I ought to do so as you were so good a skaiter." His uncle

bought him a pair of quoits. "But I hope it will be, as

I feel it ought to be, my great aim to sacrifice the pleasure

of playing with them when I can be of any use to you."

    His temperament brought him into frequent collision

with those about him. His deep-seated disregard of au-

thority was held in check by the strong rule of his uncle,

who wrote towards the close of 1833: "His conduct the

last few months is quite changed from what it was

formerly ; he is quite tractable, and I have scarcely seen

an instance of bad temper showing itself for a long time."
Again : " My authority over him is great and I am quite

satisfied with his obedience to me, but I fear he would

not submit himself in like manner to any other person."

During   bheicsomunecl"e'sverfyrequunemnat naabgsaebnlcee."s  from home he was
                                                               Just before he left
apt to

...Hinton his uncle wrote: "There is a more becoming
deference to the opinions of others.                          A residence

with his mother will soon bring back the self-will which

marked his character so strongly when he came here. . . .

He must part with some of his confidence in his own

judgment."

    Confidence in his own judgment the other side of his

disregard for authority was apt to show itself in a dicta-

torial tone towards other young people ; not accompanied,
however, by any desire to tyrannize over them. Had he

been sent to a large school, this feature would have been

toned down ; the application of a wider standard to his

own achievements would have diminished his super-

abundant self-confidence. Satisfaction with himself is

shown in the early stages of almost every new acquirement.

He prided himself on    his   rapidly acquired proficiency         in
skating. As for chess,    "   I am become so skilful as            to

sometimes     beat my uncle with an  equal                    number of pieces."
           now become acquainted                              all the etiquette of
" I have                             with

dinner parties, having been at five or six large ones since

I came     here."     Soon    after  taking up                Trigonometry heit,
wrote :  " I believe    I am   now   thoroughly               master of and
1820-37]                    Childhood and Youth                     17

I could    do  "    any question   in it." He needed                his father's
reminder                          arise from too high               an opinion
            :       Your faults

of your own attainments." This self-confidence was the

natural accompaniment of a powerful intellect working

freely. When a mind of remarkable originality is set

to acquire knowledge at fixed times and in accordance

with prescribed methods, not only is the result often

meagre and the exercise distasteful, but confidence in

itself is liable to be shaken. And, indeed, now and again

we do meet with a diffidence contrasting strangely with

his wonted complacency.

     I have been very much concerned lately at finding myself
so liable to forget what I have learned, and have often tried to
account for but have never been able. My father says
it                                                                  it
                                                                         is is
     ;

           is, I

                       it,

                       II
because do not sufficiently live in the subject, as he expresses
   that that do not continually employ my mind in think-
ing upon what have learnt and begin to think that he
                                  I
right.                                 ;
                                              I
   Again            intend to apply to my studies with greater vigour
   II

           a

                 :

            I
than have yet done, and hope my resolution will not fail
me. think that great obstacle to my getting on fast
                            Ia                                      is
                                                                        a

want of certain degree of energy in pursuing my studies, and
   hope that when have overcome my repugnance to hard
I

study shall be able to become in most respects what you and
        I

my father desire.
   And in 1836
              I                have not yet been able to overcome that
                            :
                       I
feeling that was mentioning in my last letter of an inability
                                                 do not seem to
to apply myself diligently to any subject
                                  I
                                                                 ;
                                                      I

                                                                a
have strength of mind enough to overcome my idle inclinations,

and begin to be fearful that shall forget great part of
   II
what have learned.

    To this want of energy he often recurs, confessing him-a
self "at loss to account for it." His good intentions are
a
quaintly expressed in some of his letters during 1833 and

1834, in which he subscribes himself "Your intended
obedient son," or "Your affectionate and improving son."

Too much both morally and intellectually was expected of
   boy of from thirteen to sixteen, and too little account

was taken of his striking individuality, but for which he
could not have held his own against the superabundance
of exhortation and advice to which, in season and out of

season, he was subjected.
18         Life of Herbert Spencer                         [CHAP. n.

     Writing about his own father Sir Leslie Stephen says 1 :
" My father's fine taste and his sensitive nature made him
tremblingly alive to one risk. He shrunk from giving us

any inducement to lay bare our own religious emotions.

To him and to our mother the needless revelation of the

deeper feelings seemed to be a kind of spiritual indelicacy."
Not so Herbert Spencer's father. To earnest entreaties that

he would lay bare his innermost feelings, Herbert was far

from being responsive;           but in one   lseotltiecritu(dOec.tobe" rI,  1833) he
expresses gratitude for         his father's                                 can only

attribute it to his sincere desire for my welfare, of which I

am convinced from the good advice given, and hope with
the help of the Almighty to follow it." Such a response
went to his mother's heart. His father wished to know

"the reigning principle" that caused him to behave well

d" uIrinhgopehisyouunclwe'isll  absence at   Christmas, of the same year.
                                  examine   yourself closely and tell me

without reserve what the motive was." Herbert's reply is

not forthcoming, but in a letter from his father mention is

made of it and of the pleasure it gave to his sick mother.
In February, 1835, after insisting on "the great necessity of

examining the nature and state of your own mind," his

father  appears to lose patience with his son's reticence.
" Talk  to me upon these subjects, either say that you can

or you can not understand what I mean." To this he

replies :

    You ask me whether I can understand the feelings of
returning life and apply them to my own case which you
mention. I can, and I see that it applies very well to my case ;
but, however, I must conclude, as I have not much more time,
and I will tell you more about my feelings in my next.

     P.S. Send me word how you like Dash, and whether
you perceive the faculties in him that you expected.

    His " next," (at any rate the next letter that has been

preserved) not having given the promised account of his
"I"feelings," his father expresses dissatisfaction.
                                                                             don't

think so well of your letter-writing as I did. I hope in your
next you will answer all the questions that you are behind.

           1 Life of Sir James Fitz-James Stephen, p. 62.
1820-37]         Childhood and Youth                  19

You have now had abundance of time." His reluctance to

unbosom himself on religious matters was not due to lack

of affection for and confidence in his parents. Except

religion, which few boys care to expatiate upon, there was

no subject which he did not write about in the frankest

manner. In     inthteeressaty. ing"s  and doings of his parents he ever
took a lively                         I was very much pleased," he wrote
to his father, " when I received your letter, and still more so

when I read the news it contained, and I am very anxious to

hear whether this little sister of mine is still alive and is

likely to continue with us, and also to know how my mother

is going on." When the baby died he expressed  his sorrow,
both on his parents' account and on his own.   " I should

be much delighted to have had a little sister to amuse when
I came home. "

     Towards the end of 1835 he made his earliest attempt to
write for the press. His description of his feelings on first

seeing himself in print may be compared with what he

wrote sixty years later on completing the Synthetic

Philosophy. 1

                 To HIS FATHER.

                                      January, 1836.

But now for the subject that has been so much engrossing
my mind of late ; you must know that what with my uncle
writing his pamphlet, and articles in the newspapers, &c., &c.,
I began to think of trying my hand at writing something. Just
at this juncture a new magazine 2 was started  After

some consideration I sent an article on those little boats which
we discovered when I was trying to crystallize salt. I did not
tell this to my uncle and aunt for fear that my article would not
appear in the magazine, but now it is published, and after a

little search as soon as I could get hold of the magazine, I found
my article looking very pretty. You may imagine my delight
when I first saw it. I began shouting and capering about the
room until my uncle and aunt did not know what was amiss ;
but they were very much surprised and pleased when I showed
                 And now that I have started I intend
them my article
to go on writing things for this magazine now and then, and in
the next number will be my second attempt. In this same
number that mine was in there was a very ignorant and pre-

1 Principles of Sociology, iii., preface dated August, 1896.
1 The Bath and West of England Magazine, started in January, 1836,
2O                  Life of Herbert Spencer                                                    [CHAP. n.

judiced article on the Poor Laws, which I intend to reply to.
I suppose I shall be getting quite proud very soon ; indeed
upon reading the above over I find that it savours a good deal
of but must try to strive against as well as can.
    it,                                       I                       ;I
     In his letter                            on the Poor Laws, which appeared in theit
March number,;                                he says of the " very ignorant and pre-
judiced article "                                                  a
            I

                                           :
    There are many assertions without proof these pass
                                                                                                  I

over but there are also assertions directly opposed to the truth
                                                                                                         The
of Scripture, and to these                    shall briefly allude.                            .  .
                                                                                                      .

whole system of Man's responsibility, and of his future reward
or punishment, depending upon his being " diligent in business,
  fervent in spirit, serving the Lord," seems completely set aside

by your reasoning.

    He was getting anxious to return home and had written

about in way his                              father did not like, as                          being dis-
courteous to his uncle.                       " think you must have                            misunder-
    ;                                         I1
                                                        II
     it                                                                  I
            Ia                                                                    it

                                                                                            it
                                                                                                  I
stood my letter and have thought that meant more than

II  did all did mean in what had written was that as

  should have my time more at my own disposal, would be

  better for me to be at home.                own that in some parts

    said stronger things than ought to have done, and that

  on the whole made the thing appear more than really
    I
           I
  was, and am very sorry for it."

    Reaching home about the middle of 1836, he lost no

  time in settling down to regular study, mainly in arithmetic,

  hand-writing, and composition. He was now between

  sixteen and seventeen, and the choice of profession was
    a

                       I
                                                                         :
                                                                                            .

                                                                     a
  becoming matter of urgency. This had often been talked

  about during the preceding three years. As early as March,
  1834, he had written to his father " Aunt has been thinking

  that the medical profession would suit me as well as any-

  thing, and as to myself, either that or following in your

  steps would be what should prefer. . . Send me your

  opinion, which would be the best of the two, in your

  next letter." His uncle William strongly favoured teaching.
  His father's reply showed the characteristic want of decision

  when face    to   face with an important practical question.
  " After all
                                              ...subject that more immediately concerns
               it                                                                              difficult ques-
                    is
                         a
                                                        It
                                                                  is
                                                                             a
  yourself than     any one else.
i82O-3/J  Childhood and Youth                             21

tion, and one which should not hastily be answered." It

was not hastily answered remained, in fact, unanswered

when he left Hinton for good. Shortly after he went home

a friend suggested engineering,  about   which he wrote  to his
father, then absent on holiday   : "I   had not thought   of it

before, but since I have thought of it [I] think it would be
a very eligible profession for me . . . since it is just

the kind of thing for which my past studies have fitted me."

He had to wait sixteen months before the opportunity

arose for giving effect to the suggestion. Meanwhile, in

accordance with his father's wishes, he assisted in his uncle

William's school, and afterwards in that of Mr. Mather.

In the Autobiography (i., 122-4) ne discusses the probability
of success or of failure had he taken to teaching. From
the fact that he heads the chapter " A False Start " it may

be gathered that he did not think success very probable.
                        22

                 CHAPTER III.

             ENGINEERING.
      (November \$37 April 1841.)

SPENCER had not been long on the staff of the London

and Birmingham Railway, which he joined in November,

1837, before he showed that he was not to be an un-

thinking follower of routine. "An improvement in the

colouring of the drawings of cast-iron," is mentioned in an

early letter home. Within a few months he was put in

charge of the approaches to the Harrow Road bridge, with

about eighty men under him. It is interesting to note how,

after experience in the measurement of brickwork at this

bridge, the future opponent of the metric system resolved
" to have a foot-rule made divided into decimals instead of
"Iinto inches."
                 am trying to bring decimal arithmetic

into  use as much as    po"ssI ibalelw."aysWfhinadt  spare time he had
was   not idled away.                                myself much more

comfortable and my head much clearer when I have spent

part of the day in studying mathematics, so that I have

made it an invariable rule lately to employ part of my time

each day in that way."

      His ability and conscientiousness, joined to the long-

standing friendship between the Fox and Spencer families,

stood him in good stead when the construction staff came

to be reduced. He was offered an appointment on the

Gloucester and Birmingham Railway. "The advantages of

my new situation would be increased salary, great chance

of promotion, having a good master to serve, and, to crown

all, Mr. Fox says, if I do not like it I may come back to

him. I want to have your opinion and advice about it ;

write as soon as possible." As usual, his father shirked the

responsibility on the plea of being busy, leaving his uncle

      NOTE. Autobiography,  i.,  chaps, ix., x., xi. xii.
1837-4 x]                    Enginee ring               23

William to send a reply, which was in favour of acceptance.

When he entered upon his duties at Worcester in September,

1838,   he   was  exercised  about the wisdom of the step he had
taken.             I stand   the best chance with a downright
            " Do

clever man like Mr. Fox or with one more in the common
way, as I understand Captain Moorsom to be ? " Though
annoyed to find " that, if there is much work to be done

in a short time, we are      obliged    to remain till   late in the
evening," yet " the more      I see   of engineering    the more I

like it ; no other profession would have suited me so well."

His old drawings seemed "very rubbishing things now : I

should be    quite  ashamed to show them as my drawings."
" I believe  I am   considered the neatest draughtsman in the
staff, though perhaps not the quickest." " We have had a

controversy in the office of which I was the origin, about

the proper form of a shadow," in a given case. Con-

troversies were likely to arise among officers one of whom

was so intellectually keen, so wanting in reticence, and so

argumentative as Spencer. Mr. Mosse, perhaps in 1904
the only survivor of those who served with him at
Worcester, writes to me : " For some eighteen months I

worked with him .at the same table. . . . Spencer's office

comrades found him an agreeable man, though we thought

him a little bumptious, and we chaffed him somewhat on

his forthcoming book." The world presented too many

serious questions to his active mind to allow of interest

being taken in the frivolities of his brother officers. Dis-

cussions with his father were among his greatest pleasures,

full advantage being taken of every opportunity. As if in

revenge for the way he had been badgered in the Hinton

days, he again and again calls his father to account for
not answering his questions. His letters home were full

of  reflections on  the problems      of scientific,  pro"feIssdioonnaol,t
or  human interest   that occupied     his thoughts.

know what my mother will say to such a mathematical

letter as this," was a remark he might have made regarding

more letters than one.

     I have found         To His FATHER.

shadows.                                                    19 January, 1839.
                    out the grand principle of the projection of

                      I feel almost certain of its correctness. To
24                Life of Herbert Spencer              [CHAP. in.

make myself still more satisfied I have made a model in paste-
board and I find that the real shadow is as exactly as possible
what I had made it by projection.

     18 November, 1839. The last drawing I have made was one
for a double swing bridge of about 50 feet span from centre to
centre of turnplate. . . . You may imagine that I had some
difficulty in constructing it in such a manner that the two sides
should remain in equilibrium on their centres ; I discovered,
however, a very simple and satisfactory mode of doing it which
I will explain to you at Christmas. I am just about to com-
mence another drawbridge, which is to be upon the lifting

instead of the swinging plan.

     4 March, 1840. I am going on swimmingly with this affair of
the Worcester bridge ; some time after I had finished the rough
drawing from the measurements I took, I received Captain
Moorsom's directions to get out drawings after a certain design
of his own. I, not exactly liking this plan of his and thinking

that a much stronger and more economical might be adopted,
was so bold as to write to him and propose a plan of my own.
I rather expected that he might be angry at my being so
impertinent, but, however, he took it very kindly and seems
almost to prefer my plan to his own ; at any rate he has
desired me to get out drawings for both plans and leave it to be
subsequently decided which is to be adopted.

     Captain Moorsom had asked his opinion on a design for

Tprhoistect"inIg  the retaining     wall of the old castle of Shrewsbury.
                  pretty much       approved of, not seeing any better

method with the same outlay of money. This evening,

however, I was strolling along the banks of the Teme,

making sundry observations on the effects of the stream

under various circumstances, and, noting all the phenomena

with the eye of an engineer, it struck me in connection with
some of the results I then came to that a more efficient and

I believe a more economical plan might be adopted in the

case of Shrewsbury." Captain Moorsom, however, liked

his  own  "plTanhisbetwtears  and   set Spencer    to  write a specification
for  it.                       the   first thing  of   the kind I had ever

done, and I had no data to go by, so that I was left entirely

to my own resources (just what 1 like)."
     Towards official superiors, not less than towards fellow-

officers, his critical attitude exhibited itself. Their pro-
fessional ability " elicits but little praise from me or from
183 7-4 i ]           Engineering                                                     25

any one who is behind the scenes." On more than one

occasion he mentions what he sarcastically calls, "a pretty

bit of engineering," due, as he points out, to miscalculation

or to ignorance of physical principles. His scrupulous

conscientiousness made it impossible for him to take things

easily. On being sent to complete sundry works that had
been left undone, he tells his father : " I do not expect to

have a very pleasant time of it ; taking up other people's

jobs is not the pleasantest thing in the world. I hear that

there is a great deal to do, and if I find that there is more

than I can manage or that the confusion makes me over-

anxious (as I think it very likely will) I shall give it up."
His anxiety in connection with the rebuilding of the bridge

carrying the railway  over the river Avon at Defford                                     gave
rise to the nickname   " Defford " being given him                                    by his

brother officers.
     " My inventive faculties " he tells his father in May,

1840, " are considerably on the increase. I have two very

cnaiclleedlitttlheeco"nVtreivloacnicmeestetro,"extphleainotthoeryotuh.e"  One of these was
                                                                          "Dynamometer"

the former for measuring the velocity and the latter for

...measuring  the  tractive force of an engine. In November
                   have just invented another little instrument.
he writes:    "I

It is another application of that grand principle of

similar triangles which I seem to be rather felicitous in

making use of. The object is to reduce any quantities of

one denomination to the equivalent values in another." 1

Another matter to which his inventive powers were directed

"Ifwas an application of electro-magnetism his father had
thought of. In May, 1840,116 writes:                                      I have not a

prospect of a good berth when my present engagement

expires, I think it would be worth while to set about it in

earnest."     Inthastactrhifeicreingwarsail"wvaeyryenligttinleeetroinglosfec,r  this  he was
of opinion                                                                      and   a great

prospect of a great gain." Early in 1841 he busied himself
with the apparatus for the experiment, his father urging

secrecy.

    For Art he had 'little time, but in October, 1840, he
\vrites : " Do you know that I have been attempting to take

              1 Autobiography,  i.,  Appendix D, p. 525.
26            Life of Herbert Spencer                 [CHAP. in.

profiles lately, and with much greater success than I

expected." Again: "You may laugh at my taking pro-

files, but I can assure you that I have had considerable

success."

     Writing for the press was" in abeyance. Soon after
joining Mr. Fox's office, to an enquiry from his father

whether he    had sent   anything to the  Mechanic's   Magazine
he replied :  " I have  had my attention  so much     drawn off

by other things that I had never thought of it until you

mentioned it in your letter. Since then I have turned the

thing over in my mind, and I think, with your approval

I shall send an account of a little discovery I have made
since I have been in London." The account of the " little

discovery" was not sent, however; and, indeed, by 1840
he had come to think the pages of the Mechanic's Magazine

henagrdinleyers.uita"blIedfoornotthehaclfonltikriebutthieonMs echoaf naic'sproMmaigsainzgineyo;ufnogr

although it may contain some good things it has also the

universal character of publishing a considerable portion of

trash, which practically deducts from the credit of the
sensible articles.'' Besides an article on " Skew Arches " in

the Civil Engineer and Architect's Journal for May, 1839,
there was one on a "Geometrical Theorem," in the same

journal for July, 1840.
     His health, although occupying more of his thoughts

than is usual with young men, was, on the whole, satis-
factory. The interaction of body and mind is already a

frequent topic. Thus, after a spell of hard work : "The

effect of the over-exertion showed itself in depression of

spirits and a constant feeling of dissatisfaction with myself,

and a more than usual repetition of the fear (which I have
occasionally felt tor the last four or five years) that my

mind was not so vigorous and acute, nor my memory so

retentive as it once was." Early in 1840 he is convinced
that increase in weight "is the cause of my having been so

stupid for the last half year."
     This self-depreciation is difficult to reconcile with the

self-confidence he usually showed. His Dynamometer
"would leave Dr. Lardner and his experiments quite in the
back ground." " I don't know what Carr's
                                                      but can
                                          is,

                                                              1

back mine for accuracy and convenience." Of his essay
,\

        H.S. when 19.
1 8 3 7 -4 1 ]         Engineering                                27

on  the setting out    othfatcu"rviet sw, arseaodneto   the Engineers' Club,
he  flattered himself                                  of the most complete

"Ipapers that has been read since the institution has been
originated." 1 Again:  believe that had I a little more

knowledge of the general routine of business, I should be

able to manage the resident engineership quite as efficiently

as is done in either of the divisions of this line."

                                 To HIS FATHER.
                                                                      11 March, 1839.

     Do you know I have lately observed that in many of those
things in which you always said I was deficient I am rather
superior to others ; for instance, you always thought I explained
my ideas badly, but whenever any in the office want to have
anything made clear to them they come to me because they say
they can understand me best.

     15 April, 1840. Notwithstanding I am progressing on the
whole pretty prosperously, I do not feel entirely satisfied with
myself. I know that I might have made better use of my time
in the way of study and that there have been many opportunities
of improvement or of gaining information that I have let slip ;
and the worst part of it is that this feeling of dissatisfaction that
I allude to does not seem to produce any beneficial effect.

     18 January, 1841. How often I wish now that I had made
more diligent use of my former opportunities of acquiring infor-
mation. Comparatively little is to be done after once entering
into active life. The fatigue of body and mind and want of
energy generally unfit for study even [in] the leisure moments.
It is a great pity that a just estimate of the value of knowledge
is only made after the means of gaining it are lost. I have

about come to the conclusion that it is better that studies should
be completed before entering the world, and let such entrance
be made later, rather than leave much to be learned afterwards.

     5 April, 1841. My mind has been for some time past in a
torpid condition, and I am looking forward to the time when I
shall shake off the feeling by a vigorous course of study.

     This self-depreciation does not reflect the estimate in
which he was held by those with whom he worked. Cap-
tain Moorsom's opinion was given in a letter to his father,

                1 Compare Autobiography,               i.,  153.
28           Life of Herbert Spencer                      [CHAP. in.

dated 3ist   M" aI yh, av1e840s,ouagchrotssin  a copy of  which Spencer    has
pencilled :                                     vain for  the original of  this

letter among my father's papers." 1

    ....Your son Herbert has                   been well brought up, which
which he owes, I presume, to you, and he seems likely to make
proper use of the advantage and to carry it on by carefully
improving himself as he proceeds in life. He has a quick but
clear and decided way of grappling with his subject so as to
get the precise points carefully, and then he does not lack
ability or energy to carry this subject out to its result. . . .
I trust you will write to him to keep him in mind that all these
matters are but secondary to the great object here, namely
the provision for an endless life. . . . Herbert's domestic and

gentlemanly habits appear to remove him from many temp-
tations, and I hope the temptation of a mind trusting on its own
strength will not be allowed to assail him.

     In his father's letters during this period religious exhorta-
tion does not bulk so largely as during the Hinton period.

Ready to discuss religion as a general question, Spencer
continued to be proof against appeals to write about his
own spiritual condition. And while there is no lack of

evidence that he was inspired by a high moral ideal and
endeavoured to realise the serious purport of life, there is
nothing to indicate that he looked to any of the creeds for
his moral standard, or to the religious emotions for the
moral sanction. During his first year at Worcester he also

eschewed political discussion, partly because it interfered
with his work and partly because he was " quite satisfied
that whatever temporary stoppages there may be in the
progress of Reform, we shall continually advance towards
a better state." That there were natural processes of rectifi-
cation in society, was already an idea familiar to him.
When, at about the age of twenty, he did take up religion and
politics, his treatment of them was marked by the same

disregard of convention and the same desire to get at
fundamental principles as was his treatment of scientific
and professional matters. His opinions are to be gathered
only indirectly from letters written by his friends, in reply
to letters of his. \vhich, unfortunately, were not preserved.

             Autobiography,                    i.,  162.
I -8 3 7 - 4 i ]         Engineering                           19

His views about an over-ruling Providence may be inferred

from the letter from Miss          printed in the Autobiography

(i., 169). E. A. B       chaffs him as to the failure of his

theories   of life  to   help   him to face   with equanimity   the
worries   incident   to  his   profession. "  I am, however,   very

glad to find that you are not yet become quite a misanthrope

in addition to your turn for hypocondriacism."

    How he came to interest himself in political, social, and

religious questions in 1840 can only be conjectured. In
some respects it may be called a revival of an interest

awakened during his boyhood at home, and kept alive at
Hinton. As his prospects in engineering declined, the

hereditary interest in man and society re-asserted itself ;
and during the last year on the railway, he was constantly

discussing these questions with his brother officers and

friends. It was in vain that Captain Moorsom hoped that
a troublesome bit of work he had set him would do him
good " by taking some of the philosophy out of him." The

social and political state of the country afforded ample food

for reflection. The "few remarks on education," which

he wished to make public, referred, probably, to the scope

and aim of education rather than to its machinery ; but the
increase in the Education grant and the formation of the

Committee of the Privy Council, turned his attention to

the relation of education to the State. In ecclesiastical

matters his Nonconformist instincts and training led him

to watch, here with sympathy and there with disapproval,

the movements which were convulsing the Church of

England and the Church of Scotland, as well as the

measures proposed for dealing with ecclesiastical affairs

in Ireland.

Conscious of the family failing, his father was ever

warning him against outspoken opinionativeness. When

the three months' notice of the termination of his engage-

ment was received in January, 1841, it was entered in his

diary: "Got the sack very glad." In such a mood he

...cloucrotlmy odtievcelinesdervaicne.offer"of                  in the
                                   a permanent  appointment    asking
                               I   refused it         without

what it was" a remark which called forth reproof from

his father for his want of good manners. In these later

months a change had come over his feelings towards his
30  Life of Herbert Spencer                  [CHAP. in.

chief, from whom he had received much kindness, and with
whom he had been on excellent terms. This was a matter

of much concern to his parents, and Spencer himself in
after life regretted it. 1 The fact was that the set-back in

railway enterprise injuriously affected the whole staff, and
it was characteristic that he should espouse the cause of
his brother officers as eagerly as if the evil had befallen
himself. That he personally had little or no ground for

complaint is clear from the following extract from a letter

asking for a testimonial :

                            To CAPTAIN MOORSOM.

                                                  WORCESTER, 24 April, 1841.
     I beg to express my sincere thanks for the uniform kindness,
and consideration for my "welfare, with which you have always
treated me and if at any time I have not appeared sufficiently
sensible of your good wishes, I hope you will ascribe it [rather]
to the want of facility of expression than to the absence of the
proper feeling. I shall consider myself very fortunate if in after
life I meet with so much disinterested attention to my prosperity
and happiness as I have experienced during my service under
you.

     His circle of acquaintances was small, hardly going
beyond his brother officers, with only three or four of
whom he formed a friendship. Of lady friends he may
be said to have had none until he met Mrs. Moorsom. He
has told us in the Autobiography (i., 167-70) how, with the
advent of a niece of Captain Moorsom's there came "an
experience which was quite new to " him. Writing to her
after his return to Derby, he says :

    Accept my thanks for the great kindness and good will
that you have shown me during the term of our acquaintance,
and believe me when I say that I shall always continue to look
back upon the friendship you have shown to me as an honour,
and upon' the time that I have spent in your society with a

mixture of pleasure and regret.

     In spite of his argumentativeness, his unsparing criticisms,
and the unpalatable nature of some of his opinions, his
"domestic and gentlemanly habits" to use an expression

    1 Autobiography,  i.,  157, 161, 183-5.
T 8 3 7 -4 1 ]            Engineering                 3T

of Captain Moorsom's secured him the esteem of those

who knew him intimately. If not very ready to make new

friends, he did not for light reasons cast off the old. He

was not made to be alone. Left to himself at Harrow in
                                     otshfptaeitrnitshfeelwtwe"oreauldlo" na"gpnitnegvteofrogrdeoat
1838 he came      to the conclusion
for a hermit."     At Worcester his

low for want    of society," and he

little stirring life." While he lived at Powick it was different.

With Captain and Mrs. Moorsom's children  he was      a great
favourite. " Since I have been at Powick   I have     proved

the truth of that maxim ' the way to the mother's heart is

through  her    children  '     for, in consequence,  I believe, of
                             ;

my being a favourite with the Captain's little ones, I have

become so with Mrs. Moorsom." At no previous period

had there been any opportunity of revealing that fondness

for children which remained with him through life. Like

the author of Alice in Wonderland, he was fonder of girls

than of boys.

He returned home in time for his 2ist birthday. Since

he left it three and a half years before he had gone through

a variety of experiences, which had not been lost upon

him. His character had developed in numerous ways. He

had secured a grasp of mathematical and physical prin-

ciples, his inventive powers had enjoyed scope for exercise,

he had gained a fair knowledge of certain branches of

engineering and an acquaintance with the routine of im-

portant undertakings, had become accustomed to the man-

agement of men, and learnt business habits which could
not fail to be useful. His official duties had cultivated his

power of consecutive thinking and given him fluency and

directness of composition. While affording him oppor-

tunities for theoretical speculation, his work did not

divorce him from practical interests. On the contrary, it

fostered that power of uniting abstract thought with con-

crete exemplification and illustration so noticeable in his

books. Several stages of mental growth had yet to be gone
through before he would be qualified to enter upon his life's

work ; but already the main features of his intellectual and

moral character had begun to develop and the faint out-

lines of a few of his most pregnant ideas had appeared amid

much that was yet in a chaotic condition. How the change
32  Life of Herbert Spencer       [CHAT. ill.

came about from his lack of interest in social, political and

religious questions in 1839 to his absorption in them in
the latter part of 1840 and the spring of 1841, does not
appear. It may be that, like Cobden, his character widened
and ripened quickly. Perhaps it would be too much to
say that "we pass at a single step from the natural and
wholesome egotism of the young man who has his bread
to win, to the wide interests and generous public spirit of

the good citizen"; 1 but it is clear that a change did take
place which was to alter the whole course of his life.

    Morley's Life of Cobden, 25.i.,
                     CHAPTER IV.

         LITERATURE WOOED BUT NOT WON.

                         (April, 1841 December, 1844.)

     WHEN he left Worcester in the spring of 1841, Spencer
had no fixed intention of giving up engineering. His
immediate purpose was to assist his father in the electro-
magnetic invention which was to pave the way to fortune,
but which had presently to be abandoned as unworkable.
To literature he was not drawn by its inherent attractive-
ness. Rather he was urged towards it by the need of
finding utterance for a ferment of ideas "upon the state
of the world and religion," his interest in which, favoured
by leisure and congenial surroundings, gathered strength
after his return home. His uncle Thomas was in the full
tide of his reforming propaganda ; and whatever energy his
father could spare was devoted to work of public moment.
The economical condition of the coun-try was deplorable,
and the ecclesiastical atmosphere was charged with the
elements of violent disturbance. And all the time that
influences were thus drawing him aside from engineering,
the check to railway enterprise was rendering that pro-
fession less and less attractive.

     For guidance in his studies he had drawn up a "daily
appropriation of time." " Rise at 5 ; out taking exercise
from 6 to 8 ; sketching or any like occupation till breakfast ;
mathematics from 9 to i ; electro-magnetic experiments,

2 to 3 ; geometrical drawing, 3 to 4 ; French, 4 to 6 ; walking
out, 6 to 7 ; tea and conversation on some fixed subject ;
reading history or natural philosophy, 8 to 9 ; writing out
diary, 9 to 10.30." This was an ideal scheme, rarely, if
ever, carried out in full. The electro-magnetic experiments,

No'i K. Autobiography,                            chaps, xiii., xiv., xv., xvi., xvii., xviii.
3
                                             i.,
34                        Life of Herbert Spencer                                [CHAP. iv.

for example, almost ceased on the failure of the machine

which was to work such wonders. Experiments in electro-

typing and electro-chemistry were continued into the

following year. At first promising, they led to nothing.

Besides mathematics, geology and natural science were

studied more or less fitfully. Neatly executed pen and ink

drawings of some fifty different forms of leaves bear witness

to his interest in botany. Carpentry, French, sketching

(mostly portraiture), glee-singing, boating (generally in

company with his newly-acquired friend, Mr. Lott), and

fishing, were among his lighter pursuits. The portraits of

Mr. Holme, Mrs. Ordish, and Mr. Lott bear witness to

his skill with the pencil.                His               design  "  for  an economical
bridge was elaborated into                                 article     On   a new form of
                                           an

Viaduct." Of the article "On the Transverse Strain of

Beams," his friend Jackson said : '' I confess that your
paper, with ' Herbert Spencer, C.E.' at the head of almost
                                                                            I
paralyzed me with emotion your strides are so gigantic that                            it,

they leave me far behind." As to the letters "C.E.," which                                                    '
                                     ;                                                                           !
do   not appear       in  Spencerw'sromteanu"scrwipats              but were inserted by
the                       B                a:                       very glad to get your
     editor, E.       A.
                               '            I
explanation           of the C.E.' in the Engineer's Journal, for                                                 on"
reading               remarked, What fool Spencer has grown
                 it               '
                    :I
To   guard                                        of       the mistake Spencer told
     editor            I                         my        name appearing in future
the              ag"ainssthoulrdepperteitfieorna

without any professional distinction, although have perhaps

much better claim to the title of civil engineer than many

who make use of it." Ambitious attempts were made in

architectural design, displaying in Mr .Jackson's opinion
"inventive genius rather than judicious, well-formed taste."
In paper on " Architectural Precedent," in the Civil Engineer
a
               is
and Architect's Journal,             for  "Jaonnuearyo,f   1842, "Veneration for
                                                           the greatest obstacles,
antiquity,"           described      as

not only to the advancement of architecture, but to the

"preoxgisretsss   of    every species of                   improvement." The cause
                 in   the present system                   of classical education." In

the July issue of         the  same  journal               appeared         his  paper  on  the
" Velocimeter."
                      1^ l
                                                      i.,
     Into the social, political and religious discussions of the

                      Autobiography,                       522, Appendix C.
      GEORGE HOLME,

from a Sketch made by Herbert Spenc*
between 1841 and 1844.
1841-44] Literature Wooed biit not Won                             35

day he threw himself with a fearless courage and a radical

thoroughness characteristic of a powerful theorizing intellect

untrammelled by considerations of expediency. From the
                        J"acokfsoanbolaisnhdingE.       B
letters of his friends                              A.  forms  one gathers
that he was in favour                              the         of baptism,

the sacrament, ordination, &c., &c., as being unsuited to

the times we live in now, and as having been only intended

for the people to whom they were immediately addressed."

stOhitneueapteiloeonaprlne,s"thaealsniondtettrhheeasttsarhioesftowtcharesacmydiosbnseaairtncisghfieabdbeleiwngittoh""tnhforeutsttphroaolstieteicaaollfl
the attempts of the people to administer justice." A com-

munication  criticizing  the clergy of    the           Church of England
draws from  E. A. B         the retort :                never in all my life
                                          "I

read such a tirade of scurrilous abuse." Spencer had been

roused to anger by the unscrupulous attacks on his uncle

Thomas, some of the calumnies having been retailed in a

letter from E. A. B      . He was accustomed to plain

speaking from his two friends, and their criticisms never
                  however unpalatable "
offended  him,    of your power of writing              You talk," wrote
               "                                        a long letter with
E. A. B,

very little material ; but that is a mere trifle to your facility

for building up a formidable theory on precious slight

foundations." Their verdict on the phrenological examina-

tion   of his head was probably   what he looked for           ";   and if
not   then, yet later, he would  have admitted that                the 5s.

might have been better spent." E. A. B                  's characteriza-

tion of him as "radical all over" was no exaggeration.

His non-conformity in dress comes out in a letter to Miss

      (January, 1842).

     Having patiently persisted in patronizing the practice of
cap- wearing, notwithstanding the surprise exhibited by the good
people of Derby at such an outrageous piece of independence
and the danger of being mistaken for a Chartist leader, as I
have frequently been, I have at last had the gratification of
witnessing the result of my good example in the adoption of
the cap as a head-dress by a good number of the young men of
Derby. So that it appears that I may actually claim the high
honour of setting the fashion.

     During a visit to Hinton in May and June, 1842, he
began the series of letters to the Nonconformist " On the
36          Life of Herbert Spencer                             [CHAP. iv.

Proper Sphere of Government." However significant these

letters may be in relation to his future work however true

it may be that the reception accorded them strengthened

the pre-existing inclination to abandon engineering for litera-

ture they did not in the smallest degree help to answer

the question of how to make a living. A momentary gleam

of hope came from a proposal to enlarge the Nonconformist,

as well as to bring out a new periodical under the auspices
of the Complete Suffrage Union, of which Mr. Joseph

Sturge was at that time one of the leading spirits. The

starting of a periodical on his own account was also

thought of, but Mr. Sturge urged caution. Encouraged by

his uncle Thomas and his father he identified himself with

most of the reform movements of the day. One of these

was the abolition of bribery at elections. Among his con-
tributions there is an u Address to the Magistrates of Derby,"
also two drafts of an " Anti-bribery Declaration," both

dated September 24, 1843. The one is put into the mouth
of the Aldermen and Town Councillors of the Borough of

Derby ; the other is a declaration of the individual voter

pinrodpuacrltiamofenhtiasryp,enmwuansic"ipAaln  or other   elections. Another
                                                Address   from the Municipal

Electors of the Borough of Derby to the Authorities of the

Town," signed by 600 electors, protesting against the alleged

interference of the magistrates in preventing a meeting

advertised to be held in the theatre to hear a lecture by Mr.

Henry Vincent. 1 His father was one of the deputation

which presented the address, and he himself afterwards
drew up a letter signed " By authority of the Committee,"
                                                           A
justifying  the action of  Stehnesede"puhteatiwonro. te         little later, over
the name      " Common                                       a    letter headed
" Magisterial Interference," animadverting on the action of

the magistrates with reference to a meeting to be held by

Mr. Sturge in the Assembly Rooms. There is also in his

handwriting copy of a Memorial from the Electors and

Non-Electors of Derby, to Edward Strutt, Esq., M.P., and

the Hon. J. G. B. Ponsonby, M.P., requesting them "as

representatives of the Electors of this Borough in Parlia-

ment to survey the condition and prospects of our country

            1 Autobiography,                    i.,  218.
1841-44] Literature Wooed but not Won                                               37

with the seriousness befitting men who necessarily contri-
bute by their position to influence its weal or woe." For

a time he was secretary of the Derby branch of the Com-

plete Suffrage Union, being also sent as a delegate to the

Birmingham Conference of December, 1842.                             :  On a Draft
Bill, drawn up by the Union, he has written                             " I preserve

this draft copy partly because of my name written on it.

        I
                                                   1

                                                       is
                                                                               is,

                                                                           I
It was written in a state of high excitement, and                                   think,

the boldest ever wrote." Here the signature.

     His mental activity may be gathered from memoranda

on education, morals, politics, religion, &c., some of which

were probably intended to be expanded into articles or
tracts. The formation of natural alphabet and duo-

decimal system of numeration was also thought of.
series of papers on "the machinery outcry" was projected,

  draft of part of the introductory article being extant.
a                                                                       a
                    is
                                                        ?a                     2

                                                                               A

There perhaps nothing that has been the origin of so
many theories and conjectures as the question What
                                                                        is          the

cause of our national distress . . . We are perhaps the more
inclined to judge thus leniently [of the many theories] because
we too have our particular notions respecting this same national
distress, and probably also our favourite crotchet for its removal.
We conceive that the great family of ills that have been for

so long preying upon the national prosperity, wasting the
resources and paralyzing the energies of the people, are all
the offspring of the one primary and hitherto almost unsus-
pected evil over-legislation.  . . We can discover no radical
        1

                       i.,

                                                .

                                     i., is
                                               a
remedy for our social maladies but stringent regulation which
shall confine our governors to the performance of their primi-
tive duty the protection of person and property. [By way of
clearing the ground, he would start] by pointing out what are
not the causes of distress. And first we propose to combat the

popular notion that machinery                               the main cause of our national

evils.

        Aufobtograhy,                                       219-21.

        - Ibid., 215, and p. 528, Appendix E.
38                           Life of Herbert Spencer           [CHAP. iv.

    Early in May, 1843, he entered on what he calls "a

campaign             in London," resolved  to give literature a fair trial,
and " not             without good hopes     of success," as he wrote

to his mother soon after arriving in town. "You are pro-
                                                    , " that I have pretty
bably aware," he writes to Miss

nearly decided to cut engineering, because, as the saying                     is,

has cut me that am directing my attention to another
it                           'I

                  '
profession, namely, the literary, and am in fair way of
                                                               a
becoming one of that class eloquently termed 'the press             a
                     His
gang.'                       first task was the publication as pamphlet
                             " On the Proper Sphere of Government."
of the letters               end of June he says " have been this

Towards the                                         :

                                                          I

evening traipsing (as my mother would say) about
London, leaving copies at the offices of the weekly LiberalI'

papers.                  also called at the publisher's and found that

they were going off pretty fairly." What serious under-
                                           r

                                            al
                                                            a
taking the publication was, with his slender resources, may

be inferred from the fact that the printer's account was

finally settled only in April, 1845.                he had called on Mr.
     Within few days of his arrix
                         a

Miall.

                                 To HIS FATHER.

                                                               14 May, 1843.

    He entered into my views with very friendly interest, and
expressed himself as desirous of doing all that he could toa
forward my wishes. He even went so far as to say that thea
Nonconformist had had a more extensive circulation he should           it if
have been happy to have offered me share in the editorship.                   I
. . He wrote me                      letter of introduction to Dr. Price,
.                            a
the editor of the Eclectic Review, telling him my views and pro-a
       2...posing me to him as contributor to his magazine.                   In

answer to Mr. Miall's question what subject was thinking of
                                                    I

taking for my first article, told him Education.
                                     I

          June.          II  do not know exactly what to think of [the

Education article] myself.              It          think, pretty completely

                                               is,

                                                I

original, but whether            it  will suit the readers of the Eclectic,

hardly know.

    28 July.                 am somewhat disheartened at the aspect which

my affairs have at the present time.       I        see by the advertisement

in the papers that my article will not appear in the Eclectic

Review this month.
1

                         MRS. ORDISH,

                      from a Sketch made by Herbert Spencer,
                      between 1841 and 1844.
1841-44] Literature Wooed but not Won                                                                39

30 October. I have never had any decisive answer from
...Dr. Price, and I must say that he has treated me rather shab-
bily ; for of two notes I have written to him                           he has never
taken any notice of either. I intend to call, in a day or two
to request the return of my MS. It may after all be the
best as it for there are ideas in which,                                write this essay,
           is,                          a If                    if iIf
                              it
...previously published                        it
will be of great advantage to me, and                                   they had been
                                  would not have been so well.
                                                                                                     [A
prize had been offered for an essay on Education, the judges
being Dr. Venn and several Wesleyan ministers. Of the latter he
                 they have the usual character of Wesleyan
was doubtful.]
I
    I

           I
             If
ministers, expect that my style of treating the subject would
find little favour with them.
                                        they are men of philosophical
minds think should stand very fair chance, for think
                                                                                                  I

there are but few that have taken the same broad views of the

question, . . . many of which are new even to you.

31 October.      found, much to my chagrin, that had quite
it
          a

               I
                                                     it

                                                                        II
                                                                                        a it
mistaken the character of the work, for instead of its making

the question of State education the main object of the essay,
puts in comparatively secondary position, and directs the
attention chiefly to the investigation of the American and Con-
tinental systems and other like matters of detail.                                                had for-

gotten this and had imagined that would afford scope for
philosophical examination of the great principles of education.

     His experiences with Tail's Magazine were not more
encouraging. " am about to commence my article for
Tait's Magazine," he told his father June) "The title
to be 'The Free-Trade Movement and what we may learn
from it.' " In the course of writing he changed the title
                 I                                                      :                            is

                                                            (2                 I

into "Honesty the;Best Policy." "The object of the
                 is
                         is,            equally true of nations as of
                           I

                                    is
                                       it

                                                   a
essay to show that this
is
individuals. There                      believe, better selection of illus-
        1
tration, figures, and simile in than in anything have yet

written."

The article was not accepted, but one with the same title

appeared in the Birmingham Pilot, during his brief sub-

editorship of that paper.

     His inexperience of the world comes out in                                                   letter to
                                                                                                       can't
"Ihis mother written soon after reaching London.
'
                                                                                                   Tait was
                            a                                                                     of Style."
                                                                                   it
                                                                                        is

                                                                                               a
       In the Autobiography       (i.,  225) he  onsay"sThtehe   article for
afterwards developed into         the   article                 Philosophy

Perhaps he wrote second article for Tait, but                   not mentioned in the

correspondence.
4O                         Life of Herbert Spencer  [CITAP. iv.

get on in engineering without patronage. In literature talent
only is required." He was soon to learn that this dictum

regarding literature was by no means true.

                                 To HIS FATHER.

                                                                           7 July, 1843.

   II have had a letter from Tail, acknowledging receipt of my

paper, but wishing to know zvho am. I gave him some
account of my circumstances and mentioned my relationship to
Mr. Spencer of Hinton. I was very near saying amongst other
things that I was myself in the habit of judging of things by
their intrinsic merit without regarding the name of the party by
whom they were written, and that I wished other persons
would do the same ; but I thought it might unnecessarily offend,
and so I refrained. 1

    His letters show that he approached the study of

mental functions through the avenue of phrenology, his

conclusions being reached, as he more than once is careful

to mention, not theoretically only, but by observation.

While writing an article for the Phrenological Journal on his
""NaenowtheTrhaerotircyle  of   Benevolence  and   Imitation" he
                            in  conjunction  with  it " on Wonder.  began

                                                                      The

Phrenological Journal, like the Eclectic and Tait, declined his

contributions. Probably he was now convinced that talent

without patronage was no more powerful in literature than

in engineering.

    Occasionally he wrote for the Nonconformist.                    The

Rebecca riots furnished the text for an article entitled
" Effervescence Rebecca and her Daughters." The in-
cendiaries in the eastern counties suggested one on " Local

Inflammations and their Causes." In "The Non-Intrusion

Riots" he deals with the disturbances in Scotland, arising

from "the determined opposition given by the State party to
the erection of edifices for the Free Church." In an article
on " Mr. Hume and National Education " he opposed the
doctrine " that it is the duty of the State to educate the

people."

     1 This reminds one of the "pungent little note" Carlyle thought of
writing to Jeffrey on hearing nothing about his first contribution to the
Edinburgh Review.
1841-44] Literature Wooed but not Won                                            41

he  The pamphlet " On the                  Proper Sphere of    Government "
    describes to Mr. Lott as               "political pills,"  or " Spencer's
National Specific." " They are very good remedies for

Tyranny and Toryism, and when duly digested are cal-

culated to drive away crude notions and brace the system.

So at least pretends the inventor." Replying to words of

caution from his friend, he writes (14 October) :

terinYgou"r  remarks in   "refteorenthcee  to the inexpediency of adminis-
             my specific                   nation at the present time are
derived from a code of moral conduct which I do not recognize.
I think you have heard me say that whenever we believe a
given line of conduct to be a right one, it is our duty to follow
it without confusing our fallible minds respecting the probable
result, of which we are rarely capable of judging. The fact

that it is right should be sufficient guarantee that it is ex-
pedient ; and believing this, I argue that if any proposed course

of national conduct is just, it is our duty to adopt                       however
             it
                                                                                    it,

                                                                                                              a
imprudent    may appear. No doubt many will consider this

very silly doctrine, and perhaps yourself among the rest. When,

however, you consider the changes that must take place before
the general reception of such principles as those advocated in
the u Proper Sphere of Government," and the length of time
that must elapse before they can be put into practice, think
you will see that your objection respecting the unfitness of the
nation will vanish. Such principles,                  it

                                                                              I
                                                      must be remembered,

are to be carried out by moral agency. . . . Such being the

case they can never be acted upon until the majority of the

people are convinced of their truth and when the people are
                                                      ;

                                                           I
...convinced of their truth, then will the nation be fitted for
them.           in this light also that viewed the question
             It

                  is
                      it

                              I
of complete suffrage.            admit that were the people placed

by some external power in possession of the franchise at the
present moment, would be deleterious. Not that believe
                                           it                                    I it
                                                             a

                                                                        a

                                                                    I
would be followed by any of the national convulsions that are
prophesied by some but because would put stop to that
                          ;

development of the higher sentiments of humanity which are

necessary to produce permanent stability in democratic form
                   look upon despotisms, aristocracies, priest-
of government.  I

crafts, and all the other evils that afflict humanity, as the
necessary agents for the training of the human mind, and
believe that every people must pass through the various phases

between absolutism and democracy before they are fitted to

become permanently free, and                          nation liberates itself by
                   I
                                      if

                                                   a
physical force, and attains the goal without passing through
these moral ordeals, do not think its freedom will be lasting.
42               Life of Herbert Spencer             [CHAP. iv.

     Although taking an active part in the Anti-Corn Law,
Anti-Slavery, and the Anti-Church and State agitations, he

seldom spoke at meetings. Writing was more in his line.

                                 To HIS FATHER.

                                                                                     11 October, 1843.

     The address which I have written for the Anti-State Church
Association is now printing. The reason that it has been so
long about is that although asked along with the other members
of the committee to write one I could not, although I tried
several times, make anything to please myself, so I left it to
rest. None of those that were brought forward were liked,
however, and the end of the matter was that the committee put
them all into my hands, and asked me to make one from them.
When I came to set about this I found, however, that this plan
would not do, and so I was obliged to write an entirely new
one, which was unanimously adopted. I am not by any means
satisfied with it myself, however, and in fact I am getting so
fastidious in matters of that kind that I hardly ever feel satisfied
with what I write.

    This address to the Nonconformists of England, dated

October, 1843, is signed by the Honorary Secretaries,
George Simmons and Charles S. Miall. Spencer's name

"doWesritntoetn  appear ; but on a  printed copy he  has pencilled :
                  by myself during   my indignation
                                                     phase."   1     Re-
                                                     father :
garding facility in composition he tells his                      "  If I

improve in composition at the rate I have done I shall soon

make something out. I have lately got in my head a theory
of composition by the aid of which I expect to be able to
                                           on[fo"rmTheerlyPhdiloo.s]o" phTyhoisf
write more effectually  than I      could
was probably the germ   of the      essay

Style."
     His hope of succeeding in literature enabled him to bear

up for a time against discouragement. At the end of the
second month, though he had not made a farthing by his
pen, he felt " but little doubt about succeeding in some way

or other. At any rate I shall not give it up without a

good struggle." Meanwhile, he accepted an engagement
with Mr. W. B. Prichard to make drawings of a design
for a dock at Southampton. This was finished early in

October ; and while waiting for the directors to decide

                 1 Autobiography,   i.,    237.
1841-44] Literature Wooed but not Won                                         43

...about the dock, he worked on a " design for a landing pier
at Dover.                     I had a good share in the design myself,

and my arrangements were in every case adopted." The

t"emI phoarvaerymnyasteulfre   of  this engagement did not     disquiet       him.
                              no   desire for its continuance  further        than

may be necessary to occupy my time until I get launched

in the literary world."

     He had little            time for lighter pursuits or general      reading.
" Do you get to               see Punch ?" he asks his father.          " It is a

most capital publication, and I have no doubt is doing a

great deal of good, seeing that it disseminates right senti-

ments amongst those who would never obtain them from

any other source. It has lately concluded a series of most

excellent articles entitled, ' The Labours of Hercules,'
embodying very moral views." 1 Again : " I have been
...lately reading Pope's Homer. . . . To my taste there is but
little real poetry in it                 it is not to be compared to

Milton." He himself suffered about this time from a short

attack of "the verse-making disorder, which seems to be

escaped by but few of those who have any intellectual

vivacity." About fifty lines of a poem on "The Cloud

Spirits" are probably among the verses referred to in the

Autobiography (i., 226).
     His circumstances were unfavourable to mechanical

inventiveness; but in preparing his pamphlet he "intro-

duced a new plan of stitching." A design for an improved
goods wagon was not registered because, he says, " I saw
Charles Fox the last time I called, and he told me that my

invention was not new." As to the success of his plan of

using a steel plate for the soles of boots and shoes he had

"very strong hopes."

It is pathetic to trace the disillusioning process which

changed the fair picture of literary success into a dull

canvas unrelieved by light         worrotecol:ou"r.AltoAgetdhaeyr  or   two   after
his arrival in London he                                             I  feel  very

much inclined to be hopeful, and believe there is but little

question   as to  "mIy        ultimate   success."   When he wrote two
months    later,              feel well   convinced   that if I can only

stand my ground for a short time I shall do," there was

                              Punch, May to August, 1843.
44  Life of Herbert Spencer                                            [CHAP. iv.

implied a vague consciousness that standing his ground

was a longer affair than he had counted upon. By the end
of the first week in August his funds were exhausted. " I

am afraid I must get you to pay the postage on this, for I

am down to my last penny." Two days later, acknow-

ledging the first half of a              note his  father had sent him, he
says : " I am still without              a penny   in my pocket, and as I

...shall not get your letter containing the other half of
the note until after post time to-morrow.                              I must

send off this letter in the same predicament as its pre-
decessor." The offer of a tutorship had been declined, the

tteivme paonrdarymoernegliinkeeelyrin"g    engagement being    more    remunera-
                                         to lead to something   else,  if it should

turn out that I am not able to get any literary employ-

ment by the time that it has expired. . . . The fact is

that I have made up my mind to continue, if possible, my

exertions to make my way in the literary world, and it will

be nothing but real necessity that will induce me to make

another change."

                  To HIS FATHER.

                                                   28 October, 1843.

   I am somewhat in a predicament. At the time that I formed
the engagement with Mr. Prichard I was beginning to get
rather awkwardly situated with regard to my wardrobe ; so
much so that my only coat was too shabby to serve decently
for Sundays. Under the impression that the employment then
commenced would be of some duration I had a new coat made,
believing that I should very shortly be able to pay for it. In

consequence, however, of the engagement terminating sooner
than I had anticipated I was not able to do so, and the little
money that I had saved during its continuance is now about
exhausted ; and just at this juncture I have received the enclosed
letter from the tailor's solicitor requesting to know why I do not
discharge the bill. [As for re-employment in connexion with the
Southampton docks] I find that the matter is likely to be so
long delayed that there is no likelihood of my being able to
wait for it. I have been waiting, too, in the fond hope that I

might receive a remittance from Tail, but- have been disap-
pointed. So that I am rather in a fix. I am even now some-

what put to it in the article of clothes, and have been obliged
to remain at home for the last four or five Sundays in con-
sequence of my not having a pair of trousers fit to go out in.

I do not see that I can for the present do anything else than
1841-44] Literature Wooed but not Won                                             45

return home. It is impossible for me to remain here doing
nothing. I do not see any likelihood of my getting anything to
do in the literary way immediately, although there might be an
opening by and by. I am still as confident as ever that I could
make my way as a literary character if I could once get a start,
and I think you will agree with me in that belief.

     These extracts tell their own tale as to the extreme

poverty to which he was reduced. To enable him to

reach home his father sent him $, on receipt of which he
writes :

I am exceedingly sorry that I should put you to any
inconvenience in consequence of my want of success. I had

quite hoped to have been by this time able to have refunded
you what you have already kindly advanced. To be obliged to
again draw upon you, and that, too, when you are yourself
somewhat short, I feel extremely annoyed. I wish I could
             and am sure you will give me credit for the
...have avoided
          it,

              I
will to do so had had the means.                                          have never received
                                                   I
                                                            I

                                                                         I
anything from Mr. Miall for my articles, nor did ever expect
to do so, for always felt that he had acted kindly towards
          I

me, and was desirous to do what could to oblige him. . . .
I

The only remuneration  I  have yet received for my literary

endeavours has been the 7s. 6d. that was paid me by Mr.
Prichard for correcting his MS. . . . The printer's account
must stand over for the present.

Early in. November he returned home. He immediately

set about the publication of the article on Imitation and

Benevolence which had been declined by the Phrenological

Journal.  place was found for in the Zoist of January,
          A

                                                                       1

                                                   it
1844. Another on Amativeness appeared in July, and
third on Wonder in October. An article on Reciprocal
                                                                                  2

                                                                                           a
Dependence in the Animal and Vegetable Creations

appeared in the Philosophical Magazine for February.

Before he left London he had promised to make his
father's Shorthand ready for publication. For this he was
not ill-prepared, having sedulously practised
                                                                          it      only one

                                                                               :

letter to his father from London having been written in long
hand. He drew up an exposition of the system, hoping that

             Autobiograhpy,
             1                                     246.

                           i.,
                                              i.,
             - Ibid.,  245 and 533, Appendix F.
46                Life of Herbert Spencer                  [CHAP. iv.

the book would be issued in 1844. But his father's lack
of decision when a final step had to be taken could not

be overcome. Fifty years had to run their course before

the booklet appeared.

    A periodical to be called Tlie Philosopher was projected,

January 3, 1844,  obfe"inOg ufrixOedbjefocrtsth"e   first   issue. What  looks
like a statement                                   runs    as follows :

    The signs of the times are indicating the near approach
of that era of civilization when men shall have shaken off the

soul-debasing shackles of prejudice. The human race is not
for ever to be misruled by the random dictates of unbridled
passion. The long acknowledged rationality of man and the

obvious corollary that he is to be guided by his reason rather

than by his feelings, is at length obtaining a practical recog-
nition. On every hand and from every rank is springing up
that healthful spirit of enquiry which brooks not the control
of mere antiquated authority, and something more than the
absolute dicta of the learned will henceforth be required to
satisfy the minds of the people. Respect for precedent is

on the wane, and that veneration heretofore bestowed upon

unmeaning custom is now being rapidly transferred to objects
                        here manifesting itself in an in-
more worthy its regard
creased zeal for the discovery of TRUTH, and there in that
deep appreciation of PRINCIPLES which characterizes the real

reformers of the day.

     The buoyant hopefulness of these utterances have their

pathetic contrast in his description, half a century later, of
the moral and intellectual progress achieved, and in his

outlook on the social and political horizon at the time

when his labours and his life were drawing towards their

close.

     The idea of starting such a periodical shows how7 much

the young man was influenced by the desire to possess a
medium for the dissemination of his ideas. For a living,

his hopes were centred on a type-founding invention
which was expected to realize a fortune, if only he could
find the necessary capital, estimated at from .5,000 to
.7,000. On the advice of his uncle Thomas, he wrote

to Mr. Lawrence Heyvvorth "to enquire whether, amongst

your mercantile friends, there are any of enterprizing char-
acters who are seeking investments for their capital." The
correspondence with Mr. Heyvvorth which ensued led
     EDWARD LOTT,

from a Sketch made by Herbert Spencer,
between 1841 and 1844.
1841-44] Literature Wooed but not Won                         47

to nothing from a financial point of view. In another

respect it led to something he valued more than money

the friendship of Mr. and Mrs. Potter and their children

and grandchildren, which brightened the whole of his

future life.

     Teaching, never lost sight of altogether, was again
forcing itself upon his attention. His uncle's suggestion

that he  should    take pupils    independently of  his father he
thought  " a very  hazardous    experiment," and a  private tutor-

ship would lead to nothing permanent. His own plan was

that his father should continue as at present, he himself
                                                              If this
taking pupils who would board          with his    parents.
succeeded, his father could, after     a time, "  relinquish  private

tuition and devote all his attention to his boarders." A

draft   prospectus was    drawn   up   and sent to  Hinton,   where
it was   objected to as  being "  too  ambitious."

An offer of more congenial employment put a stop to

the carrying out of these plans. 1 Through the instru-

mentality of Mr. Sturge he received the offer of the sub-

editorship of a paper it was proposed to start in Birmingham.

He joined the Pilot, as the new venture was called, early

in September, but the first number did not appear till the

end of the month, by which date his position seemed so

insecure that his father, as well as Mr. Sturge, advised him

to accept a tutorship. As was his wont when in the early

stages of a new enterprise, he himself was full of confidence.
"Wilson and I are at present engaged in coming to a definite

arrangement." His uncle Thomas was extremely dis-

satisfied with the unbusinesslike way in which the duties
had been undertaken. " Surely Herbert has managed more

wisely than to enter upon a matter first and make his

terms afterwards. . . . This I know, that I gave my plain

advice to Herbert by letter not to engage in such an offer

except with a fixed salary." Mr. Sturge made clear how far
he had been a party to the arrangement. " I have no

interest in the paper in the common acceptation of the term,
and it has no connexion with the Complete Suffrage Union,

but I am one of the contributors to a fund for starting
                   1

                                   it

                                                      i.,

                                                                                            it,
with the understanding that advocates certain principles."

                   Autobiography,      247-55.
48                  Life of Herbert Spencer     [CHAP. iv.

                               To EDWARD LOTT.

                                                1 October, 1844.

    You ask how I like Wilson. 1 . . . We agree tolerably I
may say very well in our political principles, and he is more
liberal than most on religious questions. I cannot say, however,
that there is that thorough cordiality of feeling between us that
constitutes the basis of close friendship. We do not sympathize
with                '
      each  other.    .  .  .  Simple  and  ordinary matters he manages

with great success. He composes rapidly. . . . But where,
as in the business of getting out our first number, a matter of

considerable magnitude and complication has to be transacted
and a great amount of management and direction is required,
he appears to become comparatively powerless, paralyzed and

confused. . . . Having the larger head of the two I seem

tacitly to take the lead.

     Fortunately for Spencer in his precarious position, an
offer of temporary railway work came in his way, and for
some weeks he divided his time between that and his sub-

editorial duties. The articles he wrote bear evidence that

the "indignation phase" had not yet been outlived. Here
are a few samples.

     Good government can only be secured by basing our politi-
cal institutions on principle. The party distinctions of Whig
and Tory must perish. Radicalism will have done its work
when it has uprooted the deadly upas tree, when it has razed
to the foundation the great citadel of legislative corruption in
which our rulers now dwell ; and when a superstructure of
truth and righteousness shall have been erected in its stead.

     The day is fast coming when mankind shall no longer
blunder on in the darkness of expediency when they shall
cease to walk in the ways of their own fallibility, and shall
follow those which the Creator says are best ; when they shall
bow down the stiff neck of their worldly wisdom to the prac-
tical embodiment of divine laws ; when they shall rind that the
sense of right which God has implanted in man is meant to be
obeyed that it is the only true guide to general happiness, and
that our disobedience to it ever has brought and ever will bring
its own punishment.

     Englishmen have long ceased to venerate their system of

it-government it is some time since they left off admiring

they have now given up respecting it and it seems that they
will by and by despise it. Ere long, then, the existing order of
things must pass away.

     1 Rev. Dr. James Wilson. To be distinguished from Mr. James  i.,
Wilson, proprietor and editor of the Economist. See Autobiography,

255. 329 334-
1841-44] Literature Wooed but not Won               49

In these articles unfailing optimism concerning the future

goes hand in hand with unqualified denunciation of the

past and the present.   Small wonder is there that  Mr. Lott
should remonstrate :   " Though by your title you   ought to

...be able to steer clear of all rocks and dangers, yet there is
one which I will tell you of.  Do not use such terms

as 'swindling aristocracy.' They do no good, but only

serve to enflame the passions of one class of men against

the other."
                      CHAPTER V.

                   ENGINEERING ONCE MORE.

                         January, 1845 December, 1848.

      NEARLY four years had elapsed since he gave up his
 profession, strong in the hope that by the exercise of his
 inventive faculties he would realise such a competence as
 would afford him the leisure and the means of developing
 and giving to the world the ideas which had been fermenting
 in his mind. During those years he had courted literature
 to little or no purpose. And now, at the opening of 1845, a
 settled career seemed -as far off as ever. Had he been able
 to lift the veil that hid the future and look through the
vista extending over four more years of fruitless endeavour
of trial and failure, of hope deferred and anticipations un-
fulfilled he might have lost heart and given up the contest.
For that indomitable will, which, in after years even unto
the end, kept him true to the great aim of his life, had
not yet acquired its matured strength. He was now to
revert for a time to engineering without getting any nearer
success than when he left the profession in 1841. His
inventiveness, whatever gratification it might bring as an
exercise of power, was not to add much to his material
resources. Behind these, in moments when the outlook
was most obscured, there always loomed teaching, "the
ancestral profession."

     The survey of the proposed branch line to Wolver-
hampton, which was expected to take him away from the
Pilot for about a month, was prolonged to several months,
his sub-editorial engagement coming to an end without
formal notice. April found him in London, sauntering
about the lobbies of the House of Commons and tasting

NOTE. Autobiography,  i.,  chaps, xix., xx., xxi., xxii., xxiii.
1845-48]           Engineering Once More                                              51

some of the pleasures of London life. The withdrawal of
the Bill left him about the middle of May again out of

employment.     At this     hjuisncftautrheer,M"r.wFilol xinovfoflevreedanhimagraeepaobslet.
" This work,"  he tells

mixture of in-door and out-of-door work will give occasion

to expeditions into various parts of the kingdom, and will

afford plenty of scope for the exercise of my inventive

faculty. . . .-I am to begin at a salary of 130 per annum,
which, Mr. Fox says, I may increase to almost any extent

if I manage the work well." The engagement lasted only

a few weeks, owing to his refusal to perform duties not

included in the agreement. One would have thought that

repeated failures to find remunerative work would have

inclined him to act less upon the strict interpretation of his

rights  and to follow       the rule of   give and     take.       Writing
about   this in after life  he says that  the result            one which
                                                      " was

naturally grew out of my tendency to rebel against any-

thing like injustice, at whatever risks." Very opportunely

Mr. Prichard offered him work on a projected line between

Aberystwith and Crewe. Presently he was put in charge of
     office " and all
the  3oth November          the draughtsmen employed            in it until
the                         at the rate of ^ per day."            " Here I

am in a new position and have the opportunity of trying

my hand at the management of considerable undertakings.

So far I have done very well. The office was in a state of

utter confusion when I came to            without the remotest
                            I
                                             it,

                                                            it
sign of organisation, and have now put in order, and

made all the necessary arrangements, and all goes on

smoothly." During 1846 he was taken up with lawsuits
arising out of Mr. Prichard's operations disputes which

were continued into the latter half of 1847.
     What leisure  he had was  spent in "inventing              and castle-
building." He      " devised   pair of skates made              wholly of
                            a
                               a

                                                                 a
                                                                                   a
steel and iron in such manner that there was nothing

beyond the depth of the skate blade between the ice and the

sole of the boot, the result being to give greater power

over the edge of the skate." Another invention was means
of locomotion "uniting terrestrial traction with aerial

suspension," which, however, came to nothing. But he
continued to be " very sanguine " as to his invention in

the manufacture of boots and shoes.
52                         Life of Herbert Spencer                                            [CHAP. v.

                                         To HIS FATHER.

                                            DAVEXTRY, 16 September, 1845.

    I expect to make as much money this autumn as will serve
to take out a patent, and if I can do this, and
                                                                                           I        as have
                                                                                               if,  I
heard, you can put as many inventions into one patent as you
         think                                                                                            ;  for
like,  pretty                 am  safe   to make    something                         out    [of them]       the
   am                    certain   that            inventions                              not fail. By
I                                         all my                                    will
       II

                       (a

                    I
way, have made several new inventions since saw you, two
of which new kind of division for levelling staves and new
                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                            is
off-set scale apparatus)                 I  have put in practice and they are

highly approved of by all who have seen them. Another
   new hand-printing press, which                                             both simpler and more
a                                                        is

powerful than the old kind.

    18 September, 1846.                     find am day after the fair in my
invention for raising water.      is

                                     aI
                                            I It I

                                                               a

                                                               I
                                                  has just been patented.

    23 October. Upon                        close     search into the late patents
                                                      approaching to my roofing
I   find that there                      nothing
                                                        think am safe in point of
invention, so that in that case

priority.

    He was more successful with binding pin, which was                                     1
                                                      A

                                                         a
                                                                             8
in the market in April, 1847, and by May his profits were

^"45. But about the beginning of the following year the
          fell off, and soon ceased.                     mboyrethime psourbtasntittuitniovnent"ioonf
sales       machine for planing wood
was
a
         a
    circular revolving cutting blade for the straight fixed

cutting blade now used in such machines." In this enter-

prise his friend Jackson joined him. During the whole
of 1847                  occupied more of             his    attention than anything
else. The   it           model was tried           "  and     considering everything,
               is is
the result                 very satisfactory." "The only serious im-

pediment                   the formation of circular marks across the

wood. In other respects there no doubt about success."
                                         I
                                                      it

                                                          is

                                                                          If
Experiments were carried on in Derby, alterations from

time to time being made to meet unexpected difficulties.
His partner was beginning to have doubts. " you do not

see any improvement, would rather wind up the business

and pay you my share of expenses and understand the

matter settled, than leave                            open without any hope."

Spencer's remonstrances against this decision were unavail-

ing, and, soon after, Mr. Jackson went to India. Thus

                                         Autobiography,
                                  1                                           544.
                                                                         i.,
1845-48]            Engineering Once More                                    53

ended the enterprise. Mention is also made of a "type-
composing engine, on which I think of trying some

experiments when I get to Derby."
     From incidental remarks one gains some idea of his

miscellaneous reading and literary tastes. Shelley was his
favourite poet.

                           To EDWARD LOTT.

                               LONDON, 1 August, 1845.

     They [Shelley's essays and letters] do not give any indication
of the genius that shines through his poetry. Of this last I
have become a more and                                 admirer. I cannot
but think his " Prometheus     mUnobreoudnedvo"tetdhe   finest composition
in the language. 1

     30 October. I have just been reading Goethe's Wilhclin
Meisler, with which I cannot say I am much pleased. It is
in some respects natural, and pourtrays with considerable skill
the changeable conditions of a mind in process of develop-
ment, but it is extremely defective in point of plot, and
anything but profound in much of its philosophy.

     10 March, 1846. [Of Carlyle's Cromwell he had a poor
opinion.] The "showman," as you call him, I think some-
what impertinent upon occasion. The editorial remarks and
exclamations with which he interpolates the letters are not

at all in good taste, and / think anything but respectful to

his hero.

...The dying moments of 1846.  Have you seen Dickens's
                               It is a poor affair, and the moral is
Christmas tale yet ?
so extra-philanthropic as to be absurd. It goes to the extent
of not only loving your neighbour as yourself but even loving

him better than yourself.

     In a letter to his father in March, 1845, the Vestiges of
I lie Natural History of Creation is mentioned as a book just
out, but not yet read. In January of the following year
he is about to read Humboldt's Kosinos.

1 Autobiography,    i.,  261, 295. His youthful enthusiasm for Shelley

must have been brought back to him in 1888 on receipt of copy of
                                            it
                                                 is

                                                                          a
Mr. Kineton Parkes' Shelley Revolt of Islam and Mr. Herbert Spencer's's

Ecclesiastical Institutions. In this paper             contended that the
"Revolt of Islam"          vehement protest, "Ecclesiastical Institutions"
                    is
                        a

a calm, logical statement. Though differing in form, the fundamental
idea ihe same.
is
54         Life of Herbert Spencer           [CHAP. v.

     The want of society was frequently deplored. But in
1846 or 1847 he became acquainted with Mr. Chapman,
the publisher, and through him with others of note. About
this he says :

    A generation ago the only liberal publisher in London was
Green, the Unitarian publisher who had a shop in Newgate
Street. My uncle published sundry of his pamphlets with
Green. I fancy it was to fulfil some commission from him
concerning them that about 1846 I called at the shop, and
instead of finding the name Green, found it changed to

...Chapman. Green had retired, and Chapman had bought his
business.  I continued still in those days to have no

circle of London friends, and hence remember the more vividly

any exception to my usual solitary life. Such an exception

resulted from this interview. Chapman lived out at Clapton,
and in 1846, or possibly it may have been 1847, I went out to
an evening party there. I am led to recall the fact because
among other guests there was Miss Eliza Lynn, who afterwards
became well known as Mrs. Lynn Linton, the novelist. . . .
Another of those present was Miss Sara Hennel. . . . William

and Mary Howitt, too, whose names were at that day familiar
to the reading public, were among the guests either then or on

a subsequent occasion.

    Only occasionally do we meet \vith indications of an

interest in current politics. Measures, not parties, were

what he cared for. To forward Mr. Heyworth's candidature

for the representation of Derby in Parliament he wrote

a skit headed "Why you should vote for Freshfield and

Lord ," in which he ironically advises the electors to

           Passive      sreeesist"erssomme ayvigqourootueshimresaisstaonnctehetior
           like to
...vote for lawyers.

side. He would
the proposed Militia.   I for one have made up my mind

neither to serve nor to find a substitute."

                        To HIS FATHER.

                                             3 September, 1846.
    I have no objection to a whole host of Churchmen and
Protectionists getting into the next Parliament in fact, I rather
wish they may. The great thing to be wished is the crippling
...of Lord John Russell to disable him from carrying his educa-
tional and endowment measures.          It will do him and

the Whigs generally good to be made to feel the determination

of the Nonconformists.
1845-48]         Engineering Once More                       55

     In the many arguments he had on religious questions he

usually stood alone, his heterodoxy being so pronounced.

He has told us in the Autobiography (i., 275) how this cost
him the loss of one friendship. But with most of his friends

it led to no estrangement, nor to any weakening of sympathy

with him in his intellectual an8 social aims. The unpal-

atableness of many of his opinions was counter-balanced

by the attractiveness of his character, in which absolute
straightforwardness shone conspicuously. To " the open
sincerity that is to me the best part of you," Mr. Lott

traced the liking women had for him.

1846B, eoynon"d    an article for the Nonconformist   in December,
                 Justice before Generosity," he does  not appear to

have published anything. During this year he entered upon

a course of reading in preparation for the book he had long
wished to write, and by April he had collected "a large mass

of matter." He had for some time been dissatisfied with

the  want of     depth and precision in the general argument of
the  letters "   On the Proper Sphere of Government." Hence

his desire to write a book in which the views set forth in

the pamphlet should be affiliated to general moral principles.

Here is a letter which throws unexpected light upon the

method by which he sought to form his style.

                       To HIS FATHER.

     I am prosecuting                  16 June, 1847.
with the intention
                       my  studies  on style (which I  am    doing
                       of  shortly    commencing my       "  Moral

Philosophy "), and am adopting the plan of copying out
specimen sentences. Whenever I meet with any that are

peculiar either by their clearness, harmony, force, brevity,

novelty, or distinguished by any peculiarity, I copy it out. I
wish to collect samples of all possible arrangements and effects

that have anything good in them.

    If you meet with any particularly worthy of note, perhaps
you will be good enough to copy them out for me.

    30 September. For the purpose of getting information re-
quisite for my book, I have obtained access to the library of
the British Museum. I did this by writing to Mr. Bright, M.P.,
for a recommendation.

     The writing of a book went, however, but a little way
towards answering the persistent question about a livelihood,
56  Life of Herbert Spencer                        [CHAP. v.

which seemed no nearer solution in 1848 than it was in
1841. Migration to New Zealand was thought of, and
teaching came up once more, and, as it proved, for the last
time, as a possible way of meeting sordid cares.

                           To HIS UNCLE THOMAS.
                                                          DERBY, 10 April, 1848.

     Were there any likelihood of its answering I should be
inclined to join my father in his teaching, but as he has not a
sufficiency of engagements to occupy his own time, there is no
inducement to take such a step. Do you think there is room
for a mathematical teacher in Bath ? and would there be any-
thing objectionable in my taking such a position ? Perhaps by
giving lessons in Perspective, Mechanical Drawing, and Natural
Philosophy, in addition to Mathematics, I might be able to make
it answer, . . . and with a fair start I do not much doubt my
ultimate success.

    A few weeks at Bath, whither he went to consult with

his uncle and spy out the land, convinced him that nothing
was to be found in that direction.

    To HIS FATHER.

                                  LONDON, 22 May, 1848.
    Perhaps you have before this heard from Bath that I had
...left them for London to take another look round and see
whether anything was to be done.  I have good hope of

getting something to do here in the literary way.

     10 June. I am likely to make an engagement to write
leading articles for this new paper, The Standard of Freedom,
and if the negociation ends as it appears likely to do I am

to furnish an article weekly at a guinea each. 1

     Engagements merely pending could not support him
in London, so he returned home, though not without
hope, arising from a conversation with Mr. Wilson of the
Economist. It was not till November, however, that he

received the offer of the post of sub-editor of the Economist.

"Thus an end was at last put to the seemingly futile part"
of his life, which had lasted for over seven and a half

years.

    Autobiography,  i.,           329, 331.
                                        57

                 CHAPTER VI.

                   HIS FIRST BOOK.

             (December, 1848, to July, 1853).

he  tSeOllsONhisaftmerotthaekrin:g"uIp   his sub-editorial  duties in  the Strand
                                        manage my work      very well  so far, and

have given satisfaction to Mr. Wilson indeed, I have been

complimented by him upon the improvement the paper

has undergone, more particularly in the news department,

under my administration." The situation left him with

considerable leisure to get on with the book which was to

embody the leading ideas that had been taking shape since

the time he  lived at                   Powick. But he      complained of
making slow  progress.                   " Moreover, what   I have written

I have not written to my satisfaction, at which I am even

more annoyed than at having made but little progress."

                              To HIS FATHER.

                                                                          1 April, 1849.
     I have now entered upon . . . the political part of the
work and am executing it to my satisfaction so far. The
chapter that has least pleased me is the one I have lately
finished on the Rights of Children. It is mannered in style.
I shall have to remodel it when I make my final revision.
. . . I do not think there will be any need to fear taking
upon myself the responsibility of publication, seeing that the
work is so popular in its aspirations, so well fitted to the time,
and written in a style that is likely to commend it to the
general reader.

    24 August. I am still not satisfied with the style, though I
am with the matter.

     With a view to suggestions, the manuscript was being
sent to his father, who wrote : " The chapter on National

    NOTE. Autobiography,  i.,           chaps, xxiv., xxv., xxvi., xxvii., xxviii.
58                 Life of Herbert Spencer                                   [CHAP. vi.

Education pleased me trie most, and that on Sanitary

Regulation the next. There are some points in the chapter

on established religions that I don't think you have proved,

but assumed. . . . Then                   there appears    in other places
an unnecessary amount                     of bitterness."
                                                            Again : " Your

mother says she fears you make by your style unnecessary

enemies. That you should not have introduced the name

of  Voltaire into your work               at all." On this he                remarks :
"I  had suppressed Voltaire's             name on a previous                 occasion,

and I will do it on this."

    The question of a title, which had been held in abey-

ance till the spring of 1850, could no longer be put off.
For some six months the point was discussed with relatives

and literary friends, first one and then another title being

s"uSgogecisatel d    before   he finally made    up   his mind                to adopt
                   Statics,"  notwithstanding    the  objection              raised by

his uncle Thomas and Mr. Chapman to the word "Statics." 1

    When he wrote chapter xxv. of the Autobiography he

could not recall the feelings with which he looked for

reviews of the book, nor could he remember whether he

was disappointed with their superficial character when they

did appear. The correspondence helps to make up for the

"Ifailure of memory. One of the earliest notices was in his
own paper (8 February, 1851).                    am quite satisfied with

it ; for though the high praise is qualified with some blame,

there is not more of this than is needful to prevent the

tshuespincoiotincesthaet licI ithadthewrritetmenarkthethraetvie"wthme ysreevlfi.e"werSehvaesral    of
                                                                                                 not

read the book." The review in the Nonconformist (March
12) "was not so well written as it might have been. The
reviewer apologized on the score of having a bad head-

ache ; so Charles             Miall told me." The Leader, from which
                              "itflawmasingremreavrikeewds,,"haddev"olteedd
he had expected                                                               three  articles
to it. 2 The title,                                                          some    persons

to suppose it to be           a work on         Socialism" ;  but as regards
property, the author          " separates       himself from  Proudhon and

the Communists whom                  he seemed   to be     u"phisolddiensgc.r"ibedThaes
chapter on the " Right               Use of the
                                                  Earth

                   ' Autobiography,  i.,  358.

                   - Leader, 15 and 22 March, and 12 April, 1851.
1848-53]                                His First Book                                                                                                 59

a " terrible chapter," which " places landlords in an un-

happy       p"reI diacmamreantth."er      He was prepared for adverse                                                                                criti-
cism.                                     surprised that I do not get
                                                                                                                                                     some

virulent attacks from the expediency school. Perhaps I

may get them in the Spectator or Examiner. I have

written to remind them that the book has been sent ;

and if they do not now review it I shall assume that,

not liking           and yet not knowing how to pull
I                                                                                                                                                      to
                I it,

               I

                                                 it
                                                                      I

                                                                                                                                                    :

                                                                                              it
pieces, they think best to let               alone." Of articles                                                                                     in the
North British and the British                Quarterly he says                                                                                         " On

the whole,           am as well treated in these two Reviews

as could expect, considering the official character of
them indeed, may say better than could expect. For,

though both criticize unfairly and distort my views, they

do not do this so much as party bias frequently leads men

to do." In December Mr. Richard Hutton intimated that
he was preparing an article on Social Statics. " shall do
                                             I

                                                                           I
                                                                                    I
my best to demolish what think, in hands so able as

yours, may prove to be very misleading errors, but fear,

with far less success in exposition of my own views than

you have shown." This                        article   (Prospective Review for
January, 1852), under the                    title "  Ethics of the Voluntary

System," embodied                          criticism which  Spencer had again
and again to rebut                      in later years. "         consequence of
          it                                              If
his theory           is
                                                               a
                                       a                                          a

                                                                                                 a
                     absurd, impracticable, unsupported by

shadow of argument, moral or otherwise, he has theory

r"etahdayt  to account for the failure of his theory," namely,
Of the
              only   states the           Sripgehntsceransdayds utie"sThoefreperfecotnlymaonn.e"
            article  generally               is
                                                            :
                                                                         is
fair criticism in it. All the rest merely misunderstanding

or misrepresentation.                     I  do not like being identified with

the 'Ethics of the Voluntary System' either."

Mr. Hutton was not the only one who thought him

too ready to take shelter behind the rampart of absolute

morality. Mr. Lott urged the same objections, which

Spencer tried to meet.

You compare me to                            physician " who was perpetually
                                             a

                                                          I

                                                                                               a
announcing that he only prescribed for man in                                                     normal
state of constitution," and say that u dwell too constantly in

the normal state and consequently am disgusted and impatient
with the abnormal one." Either you have not read Social
60                Life of Herbert Spencer                              [CHAP. vi.

Statics, or have forgotten a good part of it. So repeatedly have
I there insisted that it is impossible to act out the abstract law
and impossible to reach a normal state save by the slow process
of growth, that I am charged with teaching that we ought to sit
still and do nothing. You will find that I constantly recognize
the necessity of existing institutions, and that all social forms

have their uses.

    In justification of the use of the ordinary language of

theology,  which, knowing  whriostere:lig"ioIushavoepinailownasy,s     his   father
could not  understand, he                                              felt   some

difficulty, but have concluded that the usual expressions

were as good as any others. Some words to signify the

ultimate essence, or principle or cause of things, I was

obliged to use, and thinking the current ones as good as any

others, I thought best to use them rather than cause needless

opposition."      on  " National           Education " was a theme of
     The chapter

controversy from the beginning. He was invited to lecture
on but declined. " should damage my influence by
         it,
                                         I

                                                               A
lecturing. Very few men fulfil personally the promise of
their books." He mentions to his father that " the National

Public School Association are falling foul of me." On the

other hand, the Congregational Board of Education re-

printed    t"heStactheapEtdeurcaattioMnr.   Samuel Morley's            expense, under
the title                                  Self-defeating."            second edition

being called for, a postscript of six pages was added.
     Among those to whom the pamphlet was sent was Sir

Edward Bulwer Lytton, who wrote about its contents that
" he had been much struck with their boldness, originality

and absence of all false thinking and rhetorical varnish."

Still, he could riot arrive at the same conclusion as Spencer

with regard to absolute                    non-interference            with education,
which he thought was                            " somewhat             chilling result."
" Perhaps there   is
                       a

                                      a
                      difference between them at starting.

Mr. Spencer seems to dislike forming and fitting the mind
into national idiosyncrasies. Sir Edward, on the contrary,

holds such formation to be essential to the vitality and

permanence of States."

    As an indication of growing appreciation he mentions,

with evident satisfaction, that his name was being coupled
with that of Mr. S. Mill. " have had third application
                  J.

                                         I
                                                                    a
          J*^J l His First Book                             61

for my autograph," is the first intimation of a familiar

experience of later years. The frequent mention of Social

Statics leads him to    say,  with an  optimism not    yet  chastened
                        the   book is  so interesting   as  this there
by experience : " If

can be no doubt about its paying."

                        To HIS FATHER.

....Mrs. Chapman told me                        25 March, 1852.
                                       they had recently had a
letter from a working stonemason, stating that their family

monument was much out of repair, and offering to put it in
...good condition if they would let him have a copy of a work
called Social Statics.        I called the other day on Charles

Knight, the publisher, in company with Chapman, when he
took the opportunity of thanking me for the great amount of
information he had gained from my book. This giving me

personal thanks has been quite frequent of late.

All this raised his hopes that a new edition would soon

be called for. As early as March,      1851,   he      had begun to
                                       style.           am surprised
          paying much attention to              "
revise    it,
                                               I

                                                          I
                                                                 it

                                                                   I
                                                                                       I
                                                                                               it
to find so many defects." " have been subjecting

Macaulay's style to the same minute criticism that am
now giving my own, and find that will not stand

at all."

When he joined the Economist there was little of the

cheery optimism that was so marked on his going to London

in 1843. His uncertainty as to the future may be gathered
          the fact that emigration to New Zealand was
from      discussed. " What should you say to our all       again
being                                                       going

out together?" he asks his mother. The risks to his

parents of such long voyage and his reluctance to leave
them behind, led to the idea being given up. Emigration
          a

                                      of
                                                                                      is a
was, moreover, gradually losing its attractiveness as interest

in his book became more engrossing and the prospects of

literary career improved.

     About his general reading during these years little
known. He had decided views as to what was worth

reading. Carpenter's Principles        Physiology was deemed

"considerably more useful and vastly more entertaining"

than books about "fights and despatches and protocols."
He did not think that gossip about current events "would
at all help me in learning how to live healthily and happily,
62  Life of Herbert Spencer                  [CHAP. vi.

or that it would give me any further insight into the nature
of things." Nor did he care for what is called history.

                               To EDWARD LOTT.

                                                                     23 April, 1852.
     My position, stated briefly, is that until you have got a true
theory of humanity, you cannot interpret history ; and when
you have got a true theory of humanity you do not want history.
You can draw no inference from the facts and alleged facts of
history without your conceptions of human nature entering into
that inference : and unless your conceptions of human nature
are true your inference will be vicious. But if your conceptions
of human nature be true you need none of the inferences drawn

from history for your guidance. If you ask how is one to get

a true theory of humanity, I reply study it in the facts you see
around you and in the general laws of life. For myself, looking
as I do at humanity as the highest result yet of the evolution of
life on the earth, I prefer to take in the whole series of pheno-
mena from the beginning as far as they are ascertainable. I,
too, am a lover of history ; but it is the history of the Cosmos
as a whole. I believe that you might as reasonably expect to
understand the nature of an adult man by watching him for an
hour (being in ignorance of all his antecedents), as to suppose
that you can fathom humanity by studying the last few thousand
years of its evolution.

     In the spring of 1850 he had ceased to live at the office
of the Economist, and took lodgings in Paddington along

with Mr. Jackson, whom he had joined in trying vege-

tarianism. Of this experiment he tells his mother (whom,
                                             habits," and " con-
by the way, he reproves   for her "dietetic   quite learned in
stitutional Toryism ") :   " I am getting

cooking and am daily scheming new combinations, some

of which have been very successful. I will by and by send

you our diet table, which, I doubt not, will in time be

sufficiently varied and palatable, as well as nutritious."

Vegetarianism, not coming up to expectations, was given up

before the end of the second month.

     The year 1851 witnessed the inevitable reaction after the
strenuous efforts of the two previous years. As regards

visible results it may deserve the title "An Idle Year," given

it in the Autobiography, but in reality the ground was being

prepared for the fertile productiveness that was to follow.
It was the year of the Great Exhibition, which "passes all

expectation." He was particularly anxious that his mother,
1848-53]                  His First Book                                                  63

" with her passion for sight-seeing," should not miss coming

up, and advised his father and uncle William to come up

separately, as he could give them more help and attention

than if they came together. That his former professional

interests had not given place entirely to his newer literary
WintaetreerstsQuweasstiosnho"wn(Ecobnyomainst,art2ic0leDeocnem"bAer)S, oliuntiown hiocfh
                                                                                          the
                                                                                           he

made suggestions for the supply of pure water to London
and the improvement of the Thames. A scheme similar to

one of the suggestions has been recently before the public,

Gravesend taking the place of Greenwich as the site of the

proposed dam.
     " The early years of the fifties were fertile in friendships

commenced." Social Statics was instrumental in bringing

about an introduction to Mr. Octavius Smith. Acquaint-

ance speedily ripened into intimate friendship, which in due

course brought him, in manifold ways, some of the greatest

pleasures of his life. The weekly evenings at Mr. Chap-

man's brought him other friends, one of the earliest being

Mr. G. H. Lewes, whom he got to know in the spring of

1850 ; but with whom there was little intimacy till the
following year.

                                  To HIS FATHER

                                                                               22 September, 1851.

     I had a very pleasant walking excursion with Lewes on
Saturday, Sunday, Monday and Tuesday last, up the valley of
the Thames. We began about Slough, and got as far as
Abingdon. It did us much good, and we enjoyed it immensely.
I mentioned to Lewes my notion about the law of vegetable
development, and the carrying out the idea in the examination
of various plants added much to the interest of the walk. He
was greatly delighted with the doctrine.

3 October. Lewes is about 34 or 35, of middle height, with
light brown long hair, deeply marked with small-pox, and
rather worn-looking. He is very versatile. He is a successful

novelist and dramatist, writes poems occasionally, is an actor,
a good linguist, writes for the reviews, translates for the stage,

is a musical critic, and        as you may suppose, deeply read in
                is
                    a

                           is,
philosophy. He            very pleasant companion. He married
                                          is

and has three children.

     About the middle of 1851, Spencer first met Miss Marian
Evans, who was on visit to the Chapman's. Later in the
                a
64            Life of Herbert Spencer               [CHAP. vi.

same year he took Mr. Lewes to call on her. In 1852 he
made the acquaintance of Mr. David Masson and Mr. T. H.

Huxley. To the latter he introduced himself when seeking

information bearing on a theory of population he had

"Ientertained as far back as 1847. Regarding this he told his
father in September, 1851 :  have commenced drawing

out a skeleton plan of my book on population and shall

send it to you by and by. I think it will be beautifully

complete and perfectly conclusive." Intending it to form

a book of some twenty odd chapters, he at first declined Mr.

Chapman's request that he should make it the subject of an

article. Eventually he agreed to give an outline of it in the

Westminster Review, and on his return from a Christmas

visit to Mr. and Mrs. Potter he set to work on it.

              To HIS FATHER.

                                       April, 1852.
    ...You have not given me any opinion of the Population
article yet.  I met Robert Chambers the other night and he
complimented me highly upon it. Mr. Greg disapproves and
has narrated to Chapman various objections, but they are easily

answerable.

     May. You will be pleased to hear that Professor Owen has
nothing to say against the Theory of Population. Chapman
asked his opinion of it. He said it was a very good article.

Chapman then pressed him to say what he thought of the

theory. This he declined to do, stating that he had read
it rapidly and was not prepared to give a decisive opinion. His
known caution as to new views is sufficient to account for this ;

and the fact that he raises no objection may be taken as
satisfactory. Professor Forbes, an authority who, on such a
point, stands perhaps next to Owen, says he "thinks there is
some grounds for the theory." He is a cautious Scotchman,
and hence probably thinks more than he says.

     28 May. I met Professor Forbes on Sunday. He told me
that he had read the population article twice and was about to
read it a third time. He said he should like to have some talk
with me about it.

     A notice of the population article in the Leader gave rise
to a misunderstanding between Mr. Lewes and Spencer.
The chief biographical interest of the lengthy correspondence
that ensued lies in the fact that it is the first of many

instances exemplifying Spencer's extreme sensitiveness about
1 848-^3]         His First Book                                                    65

his rights as an original thinker. Mr. Lewes had used
expressions which, in Spencer's opinion, " will lead all who
read them to suppose that your ideas on the subject were

not derived from me, and that the formula just quoted is
one originating with yourself." While pained to think that

he should be supposed to have denied Spencer's priority,
Mr. Lewes maintained that he had arrived at his conclusions

by an independent path, though acknowledging that it was

Spencer that had put him on the track in the course of their

country rambles. The misunderstanding was cleared up to

Spencer's satisfaction, and led to no diminution in their

friendship. The article out of which the difference had

arisen was, as already stated, the means of initiating a new

friendship, the first step towards which was a note dated

25 September, 1852 "the politest note you ever sent me"

was Profeesor Huxley's description of it more than forty
years after. " Mr. Herbert Spencer presents his compliments

to Mr. Huxley, and would be obliged if Mr. Huxley would

inform him when and where his paper on the Ascidians, just

read before the British Association, is likely to be published

in full. The contents of the enclosed pamphlet will

sufficiently explain Mr. Spencer's reason for asking this

information." The friendship thus initiated paved the way

to another. In the following year, in the rooms of the

Royal Society, Somerset House, Mr. Huxley introduced him

a"cOnEdiAMnTrsa.KelrekTieryls"nddowefaralspls,apppederceorussjelcicrrittin.be"idnt,hgeinLheimwadheibcr hyunaedxelpirnreetshsefiorohnemawdaFs"auTtsroat vbeaels

given    to "the  hoimve. rwh"eTlmheingHayatchcourmneulatPioanperosf"               thoughts"
that   bothered                                                                       the title

                                                                                  i.,

                                                                                                               a

                                                                                                                              I
bfLieenacaadllueysr'esadShoeopct"ieaddlisid(mAu.n"tootbiTwohigserhapftihrosyt,,be"   386) were to be unsigned,
                                                                                    publicly identified with the
                                                                                    Use and Beauty," appeared
on 3rd January, 1852. The second, "The Development
Hypothesis," on 2oth March. This was the outcome of

several years of thought.

                  To HIS FATHER.

                                                                           25 March, 1852.

    The Haythorne Paper, No. II., has created sensation.

have had many people complimenting me about it. Copies
66               Life of Herbert Spencer                       [CHAP. vi.

of the paper containing it have been sent to Owen, Lyell,
Sedgvvick, and others. My consent has been asked to reprint
it in the Reasoner ; and Robert Chambers, after expressing
to Lewes his admiration of said that he meant to write to
Lyell about it.

        things go on in this way my contributions will be getting
in demand.
    If

                                                      it,

    He exerted himself to meet the anticipated demand.

Other papers of the series published during the year were
"A Theory      oTyfyeapTrees"a,"rTsh"eGarnVadacleufauLtalinouengshsto,e"fr,E"avnidd"eTinnhceet.h"eSomuirdcdelse
                                                                                                                                                        of
Architectural                                                                                                                                           of
the following

    The importance of clear and forcible style had been
                                          a
                                                                                            a
impressed on him in season and out of season by his father,

and memoranda on the subject had been accumulating

for years. In the Autobiography he mentions paper on
''Force of Expression" (written for Tali's Magazine some
nine years before, but declined), as forming the basis of an

article now to be written for the Westminster Review. In

August, 1852, he set to work on it.

                                         To HIS FATHER.

                                                               October, 1852.
           a
                       is

                                                  if
                                                                                                             1
                                                                       it
                                                                                         a
                                                                                It
                                                                                                             is
    The article     entitled "The Philosophy of Style."
good, but little too scientific. You will find
                                                                                               great im-

provement upon the original essay,                         you have any recollection
of that.

    20 October. The article                                good deal praised, both in the
         a

                             I
                                      I is

                                                  a

                                                       I

                                                                    it
                                                                         it

                                                                        I
                                                                                      it

                                                                                                                                                     ;
press and in private. .. . , shall probably expand .-a good
d" eEaslsaeyvsenatnudallyCriwtihqeunes."  come   to republish     along with other
                                                 the articles  write mean to be
                                            All
of that solid kind that will be worthy of republication and
when my name has risen to the position that will by and by
do, such republication will pay.

     Among the private commendations was one from
Alexander Smith, of Edinburgh, who was flattered by the
recognition given him in the article, the author of which he
was ignorant of until Spencer wrote to him.

     Did   mention                        To EDWARD LOTT.
Alexander   Smith
         I                                                                     10 September, 1852.

                                      ?to you when in Derby last the new poet
                                             consider him unquestionably the poet
                            I
1848-53]                 His First Book                                                                        67

of the age. Though a Scotchman (and I have no partiality for
the race) I am strongly inclined to rank him as the greatest poet
since Shakespeare. I know no poetry that I read over and over
again with such delight.

     In a letter to his  fnaethwerdeopf a3rtrudreS. ep"teImbhaevr,e                                   1851,    a hint
had been given of a                                                                                    been     much

absorbed of late in metaphysics, and believe I have made

a great    d"iscwoavseryp.r"obabTlyhe    following                                              up    of the   "great
discovery                              hindered by                                               the  writing  of the
                                                                                                article on " Popula-
et"iaoIrnlime"rea; onfbutthtoeipnHroaadyultechteoterrnaeosfPeani2pstaehtrisonMa.na"drchtTh, eo  1852, he says of it :
                                                                                                 get time for this he

had begun to think of resigning his post on the Economist,

making up for the loss of salary by writing for the Quarterlies.
His mother urged caution.

                                 To HIS MOTHER.

                                                                                  27 October, 1852.

  ...Do not fear that I shall take the step that alarms you unless

I see it safe to do so.
    Your objection to the risk is an objection that would apply

to every change. . . . But be assured I shall not change
until I have well tested the propriety of the step.

on  The book-selling  oaf gLititaetrioantu, rienit"iaitnedthebyWCehsatmpminsatne'rs                            article
    the "Commerce                                                                                              Review

for April, 1852, at once claimed his active interest. In a
letter signed, " An Author," in the Times of April 5, he
related his experience in connexion with Social Statics. A

deputation of persons connected with the bookselling trade

waited upon Lord Campbell, Dean Milman and Mr. Grote,

who had been chosen as arbitrators. The Booksellers'

Association failed to establish its case, the result being a

decision against it. 1 In 1853 he joined the society formed
for promoting the repeal of the taxes on knowledge.

     The amount of work he accomplished during 1852 and
the first half of 1853 is surprising when one considers the
claims upon him arising out of the ill-health of his father

and the illness and death of his uncle Thomas. Both father

and uncle were proof against warnings. Here is a sample

           Times 15 and 16 April, 1852.
68                  Life of Herbert Spencer                             [CHAP. vi.

of  his letters to  his father, giving   advice   which  in after years
he   might well      have followed      himself.     "I  was sorry to

find that your nervousness made you, as usual, expect the
worst result conceivable. It is a pity, when inclined to take

such gloomy views, you cannot call to mind how many

times you have prophesied dreadful results and have been

mistaken. But I suppose some mental idiosyncrasy prevents

this." Again and again did he remonstrate with his uncle.
Early in 1852 he wrote a paper on the "Value of Physi-
ology," intended for              National
edited by his uncle,     the      however,  T"emdpiderannocet            Chronicle,
                        who,                                            publish it

when it was written, being offended by an apparent (but
unintended) allusion to himself." The illness of his uncle
required his frequent attendance at Netting Hill, his aunt
             "quite touched by
b"eninevger                       his affectionate    interest":        she
               saw anything more  heartfelt than his  grief."

    Under the terms of the Will of his uncle, who died in

January, 1853, his aunt and he were left executors. This

work, which fell mainly on his shoulders, was transacted

in what his aunt describes as "a prompt, business-like,

satisfactory manner." Legacies were left to his father, his
uncle William, and himself. Through all the negotiations

he showed an entire absence of a desire to force his views

upon his co-executor or co-legatees. Only one matter gave

rise to      friction.   At a   meeting held four days after the
funeral,     " it was           that several persons should give a
                        agreed

small sketch of Thomas," for consideration at a subsequent

meeting, with a view to its publication in the Temperance

Chronicle.

                        To HIS UNCLE WILLIAM.

                                            21 February, 1853.
    What I had written was received somewhat coolly, not
being uniformly eulogistic. It was not, however, objected to

at the time. But next day my aunt came to me at the Strand
(after Newcombe had gone off with the MS. to Leicester),
wishing modification of           and expressing her dissatisfaction
    it,
              I

                    It

                                 is
                                         it,

                                                           a

                                                                     I
with its tone. Our conversation ended in my offering to with-
draw which was agreed to, and letter was written to that

effect at once.          in type, however, and                          have asked

Newcombe to have some proofs struck off for me so that you
will see what wrote.
1848-53]               His F* rst Book                                                                                   69

                       To HIS FATHER.

                                                      2 March, 1853.
I was very much vexed to see yesterday . . . that the sub-
secretary, Newcombe, had embodied extracts from it. He

was not authorised to do                           and has just defeated me.
                       I                                                                                    I

                                         it,                                                                         I
wished to say all thought or none.                 I  dislike insincere,

one-sided statements, and am provoked that what                                                                          wrote

should have been turned into one.

March.                am glad you like the sketch of my uncle
7

        is, I
                  it I
                                            I
Thomas.   almost began afterwards to doubt, when saw the
                                                                                                            I

dissatisfaction       gave, whether                had done him justice. But

the fact people cannot bear the truth in these matters.

In preparation for the time when he would be thrown

ae"rnOttiicvrleeerly-oLneugp"iosTlnahtieothneU."npivreorcseaeldsPoosftulhaitse,"pean,ndheskectocmhepdletoende            his
                                                                                                                         on

                                 To HIS FATHER.

                                                                      28 April, 1853.
         am busy with the article on u Over- Legislation," which
   two-thirds done. am about to get letter of introduction
for the North British Review, so that may have an article in
hand for them by the time leave the Economist.
is                                                 I

   I                                                   a
                    I
                                                                                       .
                              I                                                                             . . This
                                        I                                                                   Legislation
ftrhoem1o7ntheMe aoyfna.ctthethaa"mt Ubneoivxtehtrresamthl eelyPaorsttbicuullesayteonw" r"aitOrienvget.ro-               "ariasneds

the Westminster. The first                                                                                  be published in

          It                                       already done and going to the

                is
                                               is
printer.         much approved. The other             is                                                    working out to

my full satisfaction.

24 May.          do not think you need feel any nervousness as
I

         7

             I
                    I is I

                                              is I I
                                                                             I
to my change of position. With the two articles in the next
Westminster, in addition to all have written,
                                                                                                            do not fear

having quite enough demand.                        have already taken steps for
contributing to the North British, as you will see by the en-
...closed note from Masson, who one of the chief writers for

it. shall obtain an introduction to Cornewall Lewis,
the editor of the Edinburgh Review, as soon as the next

Westminster published.

June.            have just been writing to the editor of the North

British,   and have   named five articles          for him to                                               choose from.
   have   two-thirds  done the " Universal         Postulate,"                                              which works

out quite to my satisfaction.
./o  Life of Herbert Spencer  [CHAP. vi.

     15 June. The paper on the " Universal Postulate " will not
after all go into the next Westminster. Editorial exigencies
have necessitated its postponement till the succeeding number.

However, Chapman proposes to put it into type at once, so
that I may send proof sheets to each of the leading thinkers
forthwith.

     The article on " Over-Legislation " appeared in  the
Westminster for July. The same month he severed       his
connexion with the Economist.
                                    7'.

                          CHAPTER VII.

                       A NEW PSYCHOLOGY.

                       (July 1853 December 1857.)

     BEFORE settling down to those literary enterprises, that,

with the youthful optimism which in those days seldom

failed him, were expected to compensate for the loss of a

sub-editor's salary, Spencer had resolved to take a holiday in

Switzerland along with Mr. Lewes and Mr. Lott, the legacy

of .500 from his uncle putting him at ease with respect
to finances. From Standish, where he was paying the

first of many visits to Mr. and Mrs. Potter, he wrote to

his  mother   with a view to set          her anxious mind at rest :
"I   daresay  before I leave this        I shall be quite right again,

and that my Swiss journey will make me stronger than I

have been for years. . . . Do not fear that I shall run into

danger in Switzerland, or that I shall over-exert myself.

I am too cautious for that."

     A list of projected articles had been sent, along with a

copy of "The Universal Postulate," to the editor of the

North British Review.

                       To A. CAMPBELL ERASER.

     The  article  on  " Method in  EducLaOtiNoDnO"N,wh29ichJu, lyI ,    1853.

                                                                       infer from

your expressions, is the one most likely to suit your present
...purposes, is also the one which (of the three you mention) I am
best prepared to write.             I propose therefore to get the
article ready in time for your February number.

    30 July. Your note of the 25th requested me to mention
any other subject I had in contemplation. Though I had one
which I felt would be suitable to you I did not make any
rejoinder in my note of yesterday, from the belief that in pro-

                       , chaps, xxix., xxx., xxxi., xxxii., xxxiii.i.,
72 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. vn.

posing it I should probably clash with my friend Masson, which
I am anxious to avoid doing. I have since seen him, however,
and find that he has no intentions in the direction I sup-

posed.                   I  refer     is  the " Positive                                   Philsophy."
     The topic to which
Miss Martineau's translation of Comte will be out probably by

Christmas ; and having much to say on his system mainly

in antagonism to it I am desirous of reviewing this forthcom-

ing English edition of his works.

tWo esOwtmnriitnetshteear.nsama"retMicdolaeryeoohvneert",elMlIsahnhanivseerfsabtheaeennrd  that he had     agreed
                                                                                             Fashion "    for the

                                                                                           twice pressed   within

...these few days by the proprietor of the Leader to write him
a number of Haythorne papers.             So you see I shall

have as much to do as I want ; and all of it on topics of my

own choosing. No fear of becoming a hack."

Owing to Mr. Lewes being unable to join and Mr. Lott

having to delay starting for some days, he set out alone

on the ist August to begin his acquaintance with foreign

countries.

             To HIS FATHER.

                                      ZURICH, 12 August, 1853.

I had a few hours to spend at Antwerp which I devoted to
                            The
seeing the churches. . . .   and   outside [of the                                         Cologne Cathe-
dral] I admire extremely,          when finished.
                                                                                           . . . there will

be no such sample of Gothic in the world. The inside,
however, I do not admire, save in the grandeur arising from
its great size. The architecture is by no means equal to that
of the outside, and it is quite spoilt by the chromatic decora-
tions. There is a strange mixture in it of magnificence,

tawdriness, and meanness. . . . [Frankfort] is much to be
admired. The houses are fine, the streets clean and well

paved, and everything looks likely and attractive. On the

whole, these continental towns make one feel quite ashamed
of ours. . . . Certainly in respect of many things I felt inclined
to question our boasted superiority.

     In the   matter of colouring          he thought                                      Switzerland
inferior to  Scotland. Of this he         wrote to Mr.                                     Potter : " I

remember being astonished when ascending Loch Lomond

at the splendid assemblage of bright purples, reds and blues

of various intensities, which the mountains towards the head

of the lake presented. I saw nothing to compare with this
A New Psychology                                                                                                                          73

in Switzerland. Mainly in consequence of this superiority
of colouring, I think the view from Ben Nevis quite equal

to the view from the Righi."
     He had set out with great hopes of benefit to health

and with excellent resolutions not to over-exert himself.
On his return he wrote : " Although I did not gain as much

benefit whilst there as I hoped though to my surprise I

experienced no exhilaration from the mountain air yet I

think the change in constitutional condition is pretty sure
to be advantageous." In this he was grievously mistaken.
He began to be troubled by his heart. His opinion that
this was due to over-exertion will not appear improbable to

one who knows what hill-climbing, such as he and his friend
accomplished, means to a person not in training. In reply
to enquiries Mr. Frank E. Lott writes :

I never remember my father referring to that holiday or
warning me against over-walking, though I believe that he did
so on one or two occasions without quoting his own case. My

aunt [Mrs. Glover] remembers his return from the 1853 Swiss
holiday, and he looked as if he had overdone and told them
that such was the case. To such an extent had they both
I
                                                   ;
                                            I
                                                                                                                                    1

                                                                                            it,
                                                                                                                   a
overstrained themselves that the noise of the river Aar in the

valley beside which they were walking on one occasion be-

came unbearable so that the nervous systems were decidedly

strained, and my father was far from naturally                                                                                         nervous

subject.

     For many years before his death my father's heart was far
from normal, and the more think the matter over the more
agree with Mr. Spencer that the over-straining of the consti-

tution in 1853 seriously affected both of them.

     Before going away he had distributed copies of " The
Universal Postulate," one being sent to Sir William

Hamilton.

                        FROM SIR WILLIAM HAMILTON.                                                                                     I

                                  LARGO, FIFESHIRE, 12 September, 1853.                                                                      is
     But though admired the talent with which the paper
written, you will excuse me, am assured, when say that by
no means coincide with your views upon the points in question.
But to enter upon these in detail would engage me in dis-
I                                                      I

            '                                                                                                                          a

                   I

                                          i.,
Autobiography,                                 431-3.
74              Life of Herbert Spencer               [CHAP. vn.

cussion which, I am afraid, would not be agreeable to you,
and for which, in fact, I feel myself at present unable.

     Those familiar with the great Scotch philosopher's contro-
versial style will appreciate the force of the remark that his

criticisms would not have been agreeable to the youthful

essa"yiIsta. m   making    further important   d"isacnodveraicecsuminmpuslaytcihnog-
logy," he       tells his  father in October,

memoranda. I am getting anxious to begin the book."
But before he could take up the projected work on

Psychology he had to fulfil the engagements entered into.

At home, in November, he worked hard at the article on
" Education." On returning to town he set about getting
"Manners and Fashions"         rehoaanddy.""ThIbneeenMUassrectahnodfhinegAmntienhnrtoitopynpoes-
a Haythorne Paper which
these two months." One

morphism"       had  appeared   in    the  Leader of  oNn ov"emPebresor na5l.
The paper       now  referred  to   must    be that

Beauty," the first part of which appeared on April 15, and

the second on May 13. There were still two articles to
write before he could turn to the Psychology, which was

"growing into yet grander form in my mind." One was
the paper on Comte. In fulfilment of a promise made to

Professor Fraser before going to Switzerland, he now offered

to send a sketch of the article, being "aware that the topic

is one requiring some editorial caution."

                          To A. CAMPBELL FRASER.

                                                                  26 January, 1854.
     The article on Comte would not at all touch on the theo-
logical aspect of his doctrine, but would be purely scientific.
I propose to call it u The Genesis of Science." It would treat
first of the relationships of science to common knowledge,
including an important definition which M. Comte has over-
looked ; next of the incongruities in M. Comte's arrangement,
showing that a theory of the very reverse nature might be
founded on his own facts ; next of the radical vice of all
attempts at a serial classification of the sciences such classifica-
tion being altogether impossible, and finally of a sketch, partly
psychological, partly historical, of what I believe to be the true
process of evolution. I will forthwith write out my memoranda
under these heads.
     I fear that what I should write on the Sanitary Question
1 853-57]         A New Psychology                                             75

would be inadmissible in the North British. It would    be in the
same sense as my article on " Over- Legislation" in     the West-
minster for July last. I should endeavour to show that the
evidence on which sanitary agitators are demanding more law

is grossly garbled and one-sided ; that the inferences drawn

from local statistics of mortality are in many cases absurdly
fallacious ; that many of the evils about which the greatest out-

cry is raised have been themselves produced by previous sanitary
regulations, and that current legislation will inevitably produce
similar ones ; further, that the agencies that have brought the
drainage, &c., of our towns to its present state would effect all
that is needed were legislation obstructions removed ; with sundry

other positions akin to these.

    28 January. Herewith I enclose the sketch of the first part,
or destructive part, of the article on Comte. The second or

constructive part cannot be represented in a sketch.

The article was not accepted for the North British, owing

to an article on Comte in the same number having antici-

pated Spencer's offer. It appeared, however, in the British

Quarterly.

      Early in August he left town, intending to spend some

months on the French coast and then to winter in Paris,

devoting himself to the Psychology. But after a month at

Trport his restlessness drove him to Paris, where he had

not   been many days, when, owing to      the heat, he  reg"reI ttaemd
that  he " did not stay another week
                                          at Treport."

getting on very well with the Psychology, which goes on

unfolding into more and more complete form as I advance.

From time to time I keep making fresh discoveries which

harmonise with and confirm the rest. My private opinion

is that it will ultimately stand beside Newton's Principia."

This opinion must have struck him as somewhat presump-

tuous, for twelve days after    he tells  his father that it will              be
well not to mention it lest     it may    be thought " a piece                 of

vanity." Paris    being too hot     anHdetowoasdu"ll,deblyighthteedmwididthle   of
September he      left for Jersey.                                             the
island ; " but "  the cooking is
                                    not good." "They bake their

meat instead of roasting it. However, by evading the ques-

tionable dishes I do pretty well, and as I do not think of

staying more than a week longer it is not worth while to

change." Early in October he was in Brighton. Taking
76                  Life of Herbert Spencer                                          [CHAP. vn.

lodgings "some distance from the sea, hut high up on the
West Cliff, overlooking the town," he expected to get on
with his work. But by the I9th he was back in town with
the intention of settling there for the winter.

     The following extracts give some of the impressions

received from this first visit to France. 1

                             To EDWARD LOTT.

                                                                          14 November, 1854.
    Two dinners a day (and the French regime may be properly
so described) strikes one at first as rather queer especially
the regiment of wine bottles at breakfast. But approval soon
supplants surprise (at least it did with me) and I have come so
...far to prefer their system in respect of hours, that I have since
adopted it.          Paris is a parasite, and considering how

abnormal is its degree of development relatively to the rest of
the body politic, and how disastrous to the nation at large is
the perpetual abstraction of vitality by                                  do not feel in the
                                                              it,

                                                                I

                                                                       it
least envious of its superiority in respect of the arts of life.
Our efflorescence         to come and based as will be on an
                     is
                               a
                                   it

                                                    ;
abundant nutrition, on veil organised nutritive system now
                                                     will be both more complete and
in course of development,

permanent.
    Leaving all reflections, however, Paris certainly wonder-
                                                              I                      a

ful place. [But]     it      soon satiates. As for the architecturalis
                         it
beauty of the place,          certainly makes one feel ashamed of
London. Not that think the architecture itself really of
                        I                                                            is is
                                                                                         it
a  very superior order.       It      is  rather by the amount of and by

the general regard to appearance that the effect produced.

Analysis of the public buildings and the house fronts leaves my
opinion of French taste much as was by no means high
                                                       a                                     a
                                                          it
one. There           certain poverty of conception, mechanical-
             is                                                                   a
                 a
                          a  formality, lack of poetry. And there
ness in the designs                                                                             is

frequently in the French buildings what have often noticed in
the French furniture
                     is         want of that massiveness, that sub-
stantiality, which       a
                              requisite basis of true beauty. . . . On
                             a

Sunday, went to the fete of St. Cloud. . . . One thing sawI
astounded me not little, and, little squeamish as am likely
                 a                                                                   I
                       a                                                                      I

                                                                                                         a
to be on such           matter, somewhat shocked me. Fancy

tableau vivant-oi the crucifixion performed by three children
two boys and girl, on little revolving table in the midst of
                 a
                                   a

holiday-makers.

     The article on " Railway Morals and Railway Policy,"
appeared in the Edinburgh Review for October, 1854.

                    Compare Autobiography,
                 1                                                        455-9.

                                                                     i.,
     HERBERT SPENCER,

from a photograph taken in 1855.
^5 3- 5 7]              A New Psychology                                             77

                          To HIS FATHER.

                                                                  24 October, 1854.

    The railway article is quite a success. The Economist and
Spectator of this week have both leading articles upon approv-
                                                                   it
                                                                        it,
ing the principle enunciated, and hinting at an alteration of the
law. . . The Railway Times, too, notifies that                             has more
    .

extracts in type. These things render                             probable that some
                                                      a

                                                              it
result may arise from the article in public point of view and
                                                                             ;

                                                                                     a
personally they will be very advantageous in putting me on
good footing with the Edinburgh.

the 1"9 UnNiovveermsabler.Postulahtaeve"  just  been making       such additions to
                                          and   such divisions    of into parts as
                    I
                        I it
                                                 it

                                                                       it
were needful to form into the first part of my Psychology the
u General Analysis."      have made clearer and stronger and
                                                                             ;
have met such objections as had been raised.                                    .
                                                                                     .
    11 March, 1855.     ;                 sufficiently clear, therefore, that be

itthe ultimate arrangement [for publishing the Psychology^ whatIt
    may shall not be able to get any sum paid down, to be
       I                          is

forthcoming on the completion of the MS.

    Such being the state of the case, and                          the     Abeme"rihcaarnd
                                                                   soon
dupivi"dends  not having  been            paid in cash. shall
              stay here    and            therefore propose,
    if                                                aI           you have no
       I                                                       if

objection, to come down to Derby for while, on the same

terms as before.

    15 March. The printing                            to commence forthwith.
              I                                                                             .

                                                  is                                 me
Under this arrangement the printers will about overtake
by the time get to the end, in June next, or thereabouts.

    The next three months he spent at home, writing for five

hours day, with no relief from cogitation even during the
       a

hours devoted to walking. The portrait opposite shows that

he was overworking himself. About the end of June he went
to Wales to write the three concluding chapters. Pen-y-

Gwyrid, at the foot of Snowdon, he calls (Autobiography,
466) " place of sad memories to me for was here that
my nervous system finally gave way." From this time the
       a
             it

                                                                                                      ;

                                                                           it
                                                                                                     a

                                                                                                      i.,
finishing of the Psychology was done by little bits at time,
              in Wales and the last chapter at home. To
some of

expedite publication he went to London, and by the middle

of August the book was out.
78          Life of Herbert Spencer                     [CHAP. VH.

                               To ALFRED TENNYSON.

                                                                                                        1855.

    I happened recently to be re-reading your Poem, "The Two

Voices," and coming to the verse

                          " Or if thro' lower lives I came
                             Tho' all experience past became
                                Consolidate in mind and frame

it occurred to me that you might like to glance through a book
which applies to the elucidation of mental science the hypothesis
to which you refer. I therefore beg your acceptance of Psycho-
logy, which I send by this post.

                              To T. H. HUXLEY.

                                                                          16 August, 1855.

     Knowing as you must do how greatly I value your criticisms
   much at my expense as they often are I need hardly say
how glad I shall be if when reading the book (or such portion
of it as you have patience to read) you will jot down on the
margin any remarks that occur to you, and will some day let me
see them.

     I have knocked myself up with hard work and am going to
relax for six months. I start in the morning for Treport on the
French coast.

     My best congratulations on the recent event [Professor
Huxley's marriage] will be best conveyed by saying that I
envy you.

    Next morning he set out on that pursuit of health which

was to last, not six months only, as he anticipated, but

eighteen months, and which neither during that nor any

future time was to be crowned with complete success. At

Treport, with Mr. Lott as companion, he made rapid

progress ;  but, as usual,  he soon tired of       the  place.   He
next tried  Dover, but did  not like it : " It is  too  much    in a

hole." Then Folkestone, where he "slept much better in

consequence of having adopted a new course of regimen."

He intended to move on to Hastings, but the next we hear

of him (29 September)  he is at Gloucester on           his   wa"y    to
join Professor Huxley  at Tenby, in the hope            that        the

going out with him dredging daily will do me good." It

would be amusing, were it not so pathetic, to read how

theory succeeded theory as to the abnormal condition of

his brain, and remedy gave place to remedy ; there being all
1853-57]             A New Psychology                                                               79

the time a hopefulness which adverse experiences seemed
unable to quench.

                          To HIS FATHER.

                                                                               29 September, 1855.

The fact        is,  have been making blood faster than the

                  I

weakened blood vessels of my brain will bear, and see that
must live low a while.                                                         I
                                                                                      it

                                                                                            is

                                                                                              I
10 October. Dr. Ransome might be right were the present
state of my brain one of excess of circulation. But
                                                                                                    the

reverse. Conversation with Huxley, joined with my own obser-
vations and deductions, have proved to me that the cause of my
                   defect of blood in the brain. All modes that
sleeplessness   is
excite the cerebral circulation (thinking excepted) are beneficial
                  I
stimulants, smoking, and so forth.

23 October.          have come to the conclusion that the fault
                                                                               I

                                                                                             is
...not in the vessels of the brain but in the nervous substance.
            have no unusual sensation in my head unless excite
I

myself.

30 October.     -I   have come to the conclusion from sundry

experiments of different kinds that tonics of all kinds are unfit
for me at present, and that sea-air has been doing me harm
rather than good. . . . Derby air, will think, be suitable for a
                                    I

time.

After some five weeks at home, he went to live on                                                   a

farm at Ideford, in Devonshire, the neighbourhood being

favourable for riding, to which form of exercise he now

took. From Devonshire he migrated to Gloucestershire,
going first to Cirencester, where he found the air " bracing

enough almost too bracing at present, would seem, for
                                  I                                                                 7I
                                                 I it

                                                                   a
have not slept so well since came.                                             miss the horse

exercise, which gives me exposure without much exertion."

By January 20 he had taken up his abode at farmhouse

at Brimsfield, near Painswick, in Gloucestershire. The

receipt of ^67 for work done on some of Mr. Prichard's
railway schemes years before, was "a very opportune wind-

fall.     had   long ago  ceased  to expect it." On February
he tells   his  mother             getting on quite satisfactorily.
                          " am
I

         I

                          a

                                                             :

                                          I
                                                             I
                                                                            a
now take great deal of exercise every day walking,

riding, and thrashing, which find very beneficial exer-

cise." Next day, owing to the wet weather making "every-
8o  Life of Herbert Spencer                                    [CHAP, vii

thing, indoors and out, insufferably damp," he resolved to go

home. Home he went, but within three weeks he was back
at Brimsfield. " By far the best exercise I have found yet

is grubbing up tree-stumps and splitting them into pieces

for burning. It is not simply exhausting exercise, but it is

interesting, and  fully                :  oc"cAunpdiessothyeouathteanvetionb.e"comMer.a  Lewes
chaffs him about  this                                                                   hewer

of wood and drawer of water ! Is that the exodus of
philosophy ? "

    Among the remedies recommended by his friends at

Standish were marriage and the exercise of the emotions,

more especially the religious emotions. Parts of his replies

to these suggestions are given in the Autobiography (i., 477-9).
The letter to Mrs. Potter goes on to say :

    With respect to your special suggestion for the exercise of
the feelings in default of a more direct means, I should say

that it might be efficient in cases where the emotional part of
the nature was already in a state of tolerable activity. But I
have little faith in the effect of precept or example in a case
like mine, where the feelings have been so long in an almost
dormant state. Nothing but an actual presentation of the

objects and circumstances to which they stand related will, I
believe, suffice to excite them in any adequate manner. More-
over, there is in me a special hindrance to the production of

any such effect as that you anticipate from reading the Gospels.
Owing to the foolish pertinacity with which, as a child, I was
weekly surfeited with religious teachings and observances, I
have contracted a decided repugnance to the very forms in
which they were conveyed. I cannot hear scriptural expres-
sions without experiencing a certain disagreeable feeling ; and

I can no more escape this than I can the nausea produced in
me by particular sweets that were commonly given me after
medicine when a child. You will readily understand, therefore,
that narrations clothed in language for which I have this dis-
taste would fail in the desired result. Even were it otherwise
I should doubt the practicability of efficiently arousing the im-

personal emotions before the personal ones ; the reverse is the
natural order. And further, it is not as though your plan had
never been tried. Up to seventeen I was constantly in the way
of hearing the gospels.

    Mr. and Mrs. Potter were more successful in inducing

him to try another remedy a visit to Standish which he

a"cccueplttievda,tedthoSuogchientyot"  without  misgivings as   to the  effect of
                                        on his    brain. He    enjoyed   himself
l8 53'57]          A New Psychology                                                                                81

greatly, participating especially in the amusements and

recreations        of the children. So great was the benefit                    that
he thought         of trying the effect of a visit to London.                    "I

doubt not that rambling about London, sight-seeing, and
occasionally calling on friends, will be just the thing for

me."

     He meant to economize during his stay in town, and
not without reason : there being ground to fear that the

Psychology would be a loss, and his pen had long been idle.
The notices of the book, during the time he had been in

retirement, did little to                 create a demand    for it. The charge
of " materialistic and                   atheistic," which
had brought against                                          th"e   Nonconformist
                   I                         he repudiated.        Not only have
                                   is it,
I  nowhere expressed any such conclusion, but affirm that
                                                                   I
no such conclusion                                                                    Ia
                                           deducible from the general tenor

of the book.       hold, in common with most men who have

studied the matter to the bottom, that the existence of

Deity can neither be proved nor disproved." The notice in
the National Review he thought "decidedly dishonest.

am going to write        a               letter to the editor similar to that

to the Nonconformist."

                            To HIS FATHER.

                                           STANDISH,               April, 1856.
it

         1

                         a

                                    If .

                                              I

                                                                 a
                                                                     it

                                                                                                    9

                                                                          I
                                                                              It

                                                                                                               is
   You have probably heard what scurvy notice the Athenceum
has got of the Psychology. . . The National Review has de-

clined to put in my letter.                can get back shall publish

   elsewhere.

          send you the British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical
Review with
                   very good notice of the Psychology.                                                             by
Morell.

     LONDON, 13 April.   Huxley            has lately been   reHadeingsaytshe"  latter
part of the Psychology,                    of his lectures.                     there
                          propos
                   is
                              a

                              I
are grand ideas in it."                    value his approval more than that of
any one as he always so critical and sceptical, and so chary
   2

                ;
of his praise.

      May. Bain, who was excessively civil the other night,
told me that John Mill spoke highly of the Psychology, and that1
he was preparing         reply to my attack on him, which                                                          to
                     a                                             a
                                                                                   is
appear in the 4th edition of his Logic.

      This, his first meeting with Professor Bain, was at          party at Mrs.
Masson's.
   1

       6
cS2              Life of Herbert Spencer                                           [CHAP. vn.

     The summer of 1856 was memorable as being the date
of the first of many holidays spent at Achranich (afterwards
Ardtornish), the Argyllshire home of Mr. Octavius Smith. On
his way north he stopped for a week at Beoch, on the shore
of Loch Boon, in Ayrshire, and put to the test some of his

conclusions on the psychology of fishes.

                                 To HIS FATHER.

                                                    ACHRANICH, 16 August, 1856.
     I received the enclosed note a few days since and the

volumes [Mill's Logic] have now reached me. There is nearly
a whole chapter devoted to a reply to the Universal Postulate.
I have glanced through and am not at all alarmed. Nor does
his reply on another point at all stagger me.
I a9

                it

                    I
                           I

                                                          ;

                                      it it,
                                                  if

                                                                              a

                                                           I

                                                                                                                                            ;

                                                                                    I
     September.  think probable that shall soon be able to
do little work daily especially the Brighton air suits me,
as expect will.
                     have not caught salmon yet but have

hooked two.

     Brighton not coming up to expectations, he made up
his mind to go to Paris, and asked his father to send his
skates, his map of Paris, and Nugent's dictionary.

                     To HIS MOTHER.

                                                       PARIS, 20 October, 1856.

     The weather here bright and clear, and Paris looks more
I
                      is

                             a
                                 is
charming than ever.

     called on Comte yesterday to give him remittance from
                                                                a
                                                                            a
                                                                                                a
Chapman. He          very undignified little old man. My French
sufficed me to carry on an argument with him in very slip-
shod style.

     Albeit that Paris was "more charming than ever,"
within week he was tired of it. The idea of inventing

smoke-consuming fireplace had taken possession of him.
" extremely simple, will possess very many advantages,
and can, think, scarcely fail to succeed. Moreover, the
bringing to bear will be very good occupation for me,

as being alike new and interesting."
It

     is
          a

            it I

                                                    a

                     To HIS FATHER.

                                                       LONDON,  November, 1856.
                                                                4
                                                                         it
                                                                               is
I    am busy getting information about smoke-consuming

grates. Arnott's does not act perfectly, though                                    an immense
1 853-57]                             A New Psychology                   83

improvement. Moreover, it is liable to get out of order and

difficult to manage. I am sanguine of success, and hope to

combine many advantages besides smoke-consuming.

   A day or two after this he went home, remaining till

about Christmas. The                  sm"okSem-cooknesuwmoinugld  fire-place "ended
in smoke " he tells us.                                            not behave as I

expected it to do."

   New Year's Day, 1857, was noteworthy as being the

first of a long series of New Years' Days on which he dined

with the Huxleys. To be near them he took up his abode

with a family at 7, Marlborough Gardens, St. John's Wood,
hoping to do a little work. Two years before this he had
promised an article for the Westminster Review on "The

Cause of All Progress." He now set about redeeming that

promise.

                                 To HIS FATHER.

                                                                         4 February, 1857.
     I am attending a course of Huxley's lectures at the Royal
Institution, to which he has given me a ticket. I was lately
present at Dr. Tyndall's lecture on glaciers, in which he over-
turned sundry of the current theories.

     23 March. I finished my article on u Progress " on Satur-
day. I have been rather hard pressed for these ten days.
. . . On the whole, I have decidedly progressed with this hard
work.

"    The article was " very well received,"                       he writes in May.
   Huxley, whose criticism I value most,                          said he could not

pick a hole in and that he meant to read two or three
           it,                                           it
                    it                                          a
times. He thought would have great results on science."
                                                                     it
For the next few months he was engaged on an article for
the National Review on " Transcendental Physiology,"
which appeared under the title " The Ultimate Laws of

tPohyHsuioxlloegyyh."imsHeluf xle"y    told    him that      had been    ascribed
          I                           and    that by no  less person     than Dr.
                                   ;
Hooker.    have heard Huxley say that there are but

four philosophical naturalists in England Darwin, Busk,

Hooker, and himself. Thus the article has been ascribed

bv one of the four to another of the four."

   The midsummer holiday of 1857 was spent in Kirkcud-
84  Life of Herbert Spencer       [CHAP. vii.

brightshire and Ayrshire. While there he elaborated into

an article for Fraser's Magazine some notes previously made
on " The Origin and Function of Music." Discovering on

the way south that he would arrive at Derby on a Sunday
evening, he wrote to his mother : " I believe there are no
cabs at the Derby station on Sunday. Will you therefore

please send one to the station to be there ready for me at

7.35. For with my fishing basket and rod, and my some-

what dilapidated costume, I shall hardly like walking up

home." During the few weeks at    home he began an article
on " Representative Government,"  which was completed at

Standish. He was back in town in time for its appearance

in the Westminster in October.

                                 To HIS FATHER.

                                                            LONDON, 28 November, 1857.

     I have undertaken to write a short article on this Banking
Crisis perhaps under the title of the Bunglings of State-
banking in which I propose showing the evils of meddling
and the superiority of an unrestricted system. It is for the
next Westminster.

     I have also engaged to supply the April number of the
British Quarterly with an essay on u The Moral Discipline of
Children."

     I have just revised the last sheet but one of the volume of
Essays. It will be out, probably, by the end of this next week.
          CHAPTER VIII.

THE UNIFICATION OF KNOWLEDGE.

               (January, 1858 May, 1860.)

     ONE of the reasons which weighed with Spencer in
selecting 13, Loudoun Road, St. John's Wood, as his
residence in the beginning of 1858 was its nearness to
Professor Huxley. Henceforth their intercourse became

more frequent, and whether or not they met during the

week, the Sunday afternoon walk could be looked forward

to for healthy exercise and mental stimulation.

     The revision of the Essays towards the close of the
previous year was doubtless the immediate cause of that

synthesis of his thoughts which, to outward appearance,

suddenly took place during the last days of 1857 and the
first days of 1858. It would be a mistake, however, to
assume that the scheme, dated January 6, 1858, which
he forwarded to his father on the Qth, was hastily con-

ceived. Towards such a synthesis his ideas had for years

been tending, the general drift of thought in the scientific
world being also in the direction of some unifying principle.
In his writings, varied as they had been in subject-matter

and treatment, there could be traced a fundamentally

uniform method of looking at every problem, as well as
many of the leading conceptions embodied in the scheme.
The revision of the Essays was but the completing link in

the chain of antecedents.

While thinking over his project he had to fulfil engage-

ments already entered into, such as the article for the
                                        " Moral Discipline of Children."
BArnitisahrticQleuaortnerl"y   on the   Training" was proposed for the
                              Physical
Quarterly Review, and one on the "Nebular Hypothesis"

was begun.

NOTE. Autobiography, ii., chaps, xxxiv., xxxv., xxxvi.
86 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. vm.

                        To HIS FATHER.

                                                             1 April, 1858.
     I am very well, and am going on satisfactorily with my
article for the Quarterly. I think it will be interesting.

     I happened to meet at ' Chapman's on Sunday a Captain
Pelly [afterw rards Sir Lewis Pelly], and through him received
a most flattering and rather startling compliment. After ex-
pressing his own obligations to me for instruction derived from

Social Statics, he went on to say that it was much read by the
officers on the northern frontier of India that they had a
dozen copies in circulation among them and that Colonel Jacob,

the Chief Commissioner in Scinde, who is in fact the Governor of
Scinde, swears by  and acts completely on its principles. This
                   it,

                                  r
Colonel Jacob has just w ritten a book which his friend Captain
Pelly has brought out for him in England, in which he gives
his political experiences illustrating these doctrines to which
                                     little thought that Social Statics was
he has been converted.     I

already regulating the government of some millions of people.

     He had promised to accompany his father to France
for the next midsummer holiday. But when the time drew

near he hesitated owing to the warlike preparations going
on across the channel.

                        To HIS FATHER.

                                                             14 June, 1858.
   What do all these enormous preparations mean An attack
                                                             ?
on England seems improbable but every other conceivableis, ;
purpose seems equally improbable. As the preparations must       it
                                                                       a
mean something the question                of the various improbabilities,
which the least improbable.               Certainly nothing would delight
   is
the army more than to attack us. saw not long since copy
     if                                     I

of verses that are sung by the French soldiers, breathing most
ferocious feelings against us. Louis Napoleon would not
                                     politic but can he think politic
hesitate he thoughtI                      ;                                  ;?
   do not know what to think.it
I                                               I is
                                                          I
   18 June.  It  seems very probable that shall be prevented

from joining you myself. There                 an arbitration case of

Prichard's just coming on, in which am wanted as witness
and can get paid my last account for similar services, due
   if
     I

now these five years, must stay to give evidence.            It           pro-

                                                                   is

voking that things should so happen as to hinder this long-

arranged joint excursion.

     The next three months were spent for the most part
in his native county. With Derby as his headquarters
he made excursions hither and thither in the vain hope
1858-60] The Unification of Knowledge                                      87

of getting fishing. At Matlock, " where the fishing is free

there being no fish ! " he made up for the want of his

favourite pastime by attacking the theory of the vertebrate

skeleton. His dissatisfaction with the Archetype theory

dated from 1851, when he attended Owen's lectures. A

lecture by Professor Huxley, showing the inadequacy of

Owen's doctrine in so far as it concerns the skull, en-

couraged  "  him to express his            disbelief   in the   theory as a
whole.       I am busy," says a           letter (9   July) "  with the on-

slaught on Owen. I find on reading, the ' Archetype

and Homologies' is terrible bosh far worse than I had

thought. I shall make a tremendous smash of                    a : it,and lay

the foundations    of true    theory on its ruins." The               month
after the article   appeared    he writes to his father               " Hux-
                   a
ley tells me that the article on Owen has created sensa-is

tion. He has had many questions put to him respectingit

the authorship being himself suspected by some. Thea

general opinion was that was settler."

   On return to town in October he set about writing

a  promised article on "The Laws of Organic Forms."

In view of another article he mentions that he was to

"dine with Mr. Cross, of the great firm of Dennistoun,

Cross and Co. He     to        give       me some information bear-
ing on the morals  of         trade."        An article on " Physical

Training," declined for the Quarterly, had been accepted for

the British Quarterly. He had been distributing                         a  few

volumes of the Essays. Two of the letters of acknowledg-

ment are worth quoting, Mr. Darwin's being one to

which Spencer attached great importance.

                   FROM CHARLES DARWIN.

                                                                25 November [1858].

   Your remarks on the general argument of the so-called

Development Theory seem to me admirable.                       am at present
                                                      a

                                                           I
preparing an abstract of      a         larger work on the changes of

                                       ;
species but treat the subject simply as naturalist, and not
   a

        ;

              I
from general point of view otherwise, in my opinion, your

argument could not have been improved on, and might have
been quoted by me with great advantage.
                                                  1

1  Life and Letters of Charles Darwin, ii., 141. Autobiography, ii., 27.
88 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. vin.

                        FROM THOMAS HENRY BUCKLE.

                                                                                 3 December, 1858.

     Rarely, very rarely, have I read a volume containing so
much thought. Indeed, some of your views almost trouble me
with their wealth the ideas, in spite of their clearness, being
so suggestive as to fatigue. But to oppress in this way is the
highest proof of power. . . . The one on Progress interested
me much ; but you would doubtless be the first to allow that
our knowledge is hardly ripe enough to verify the whole
generalisation it contains.

     While at home he had been turning over in his mind
plans for securing a living while giving him leisure to carry
on his literary work. The re-organisation of the Adminis-
tration of India having suggested a possible solution, he
wrote to Mr. J. S. Mill. 1 Application was also made for a
post under the Education Commission. And, in addition,
Mr. Octavius Smith had some plan which, if carried out,
would give him a position in Mr. Chapman's firm. The
letter to Mr. Mill, owing to the death of Mrs. Mill, did not
reach its destination till November, when he was favoured
with a reply which " though sympathetic, was disappoint-
ing," as far as prospect of employment was concerned.

                                  To J. S. MILL.

                                                  RICHMOND, 27 November, 1858.

     I hardly know how adequately to thank you for your

very generous letter ; and my difficulty is increased by the
remembrance of the sad circumstances under which it is
written. . . .

      I have scarcely any claim to express my sympathy with you.
But I cannot refrain from saying that I hope, both on public
and private grounds, that the depression which the opening of
your letter implies, may not be lasting ; and that you may here-
after resume your career of usefulness.

     The expression of opinion with which your letter concludes
is much stronger than I had hoped, and cannot fail, if I may
make use of to be of great service.

    Among the friends whose interest he sought to enlist was
Dr. Hooker.

                                            Autobiography ii., 23.
it,

                                                               t
1858-60] The Unification of Knowledge                                       89

               To J. D. HOOKER.

                                   13 December, 1858.

I am about to seek some such position as that of foreign
consul ; and my purpose in seeking it is to obtain the means of

prosecuting various literary (or more properly, scientific) projects
which I am now unable to carry out.

    What I have hitherto written bears but a small ratio to that
which I am anxious to write. Aims, originally somewhat exten-

sive, have been gradually growing more so. Especially of
late certain ideas, of which a few crude, misshapen rudiments
exist in the Essays, have been developing in a way I never
anticipated promising in great measure to absorb, and give
unity to, the separate works I had before contemplated. And
this has made me the more eager to go on.
But, unhappily for me, my books have no adequate
sale. . . . Under these circumstances the course suggested to
me is to obtain, if possible, some post, rather of responsibility
than of much active duty, which would afford me adequate
leisure for executing the contemplated works. . . .

    If you believe it is desirable to treat Psychology and

Sociology after the spirit and methods of physical science (I
give this as the best brief" indication of my chief aim) and if
you believe, from what you see of my writings, that I am likely
to achieve anything in this direction, perhaps you will add the
weight of your name to that of others. I am desirous to have

the matter considered solely on public grounds. If you think

that, through the advancement of opinion, an adequate public
advantage would probably result from my gaining the desired
position, and  in so far only as you think this, you could aid
               if,

                                                      I
me by your testimony, you would do all that wish, and would

much oblige.

     In the matter of consular appointments, Dr. Hooker's
reply was not encouraging.

They do entail an amount of worry to sensitive and duty-
...loving man that
is
                          is

                                                                         ;

                                                    !a
                                                                      a
               far from congenial to reflection.                            I

hence question whether some post demanding the veriest
drudgery and nothing else, during work-hours, would not prove

more suited to your pursuits, so long as the said drudgery was
limited as to time per day and entailed no after cares. . . .
This teaching the teacher with vengeance, for no one should
know all this so well as you but no man can be his own
physician or metaphysician either

     When inviting the opinions of his friends, he had been
careful to state that he wished this question of an appoint-
9O Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. vin.

ment to be treated solely on public grounds. The testi-
monials he received laid stress, therefore, on the public

value of his work as a thinker and writer, the importance

of giving him the means and -leisure to carry it on, and the
possession by him of the intellectual and moral qualifica-
tions that go to make a valuable public servant. Here are a
few extracts from the testimonials.

    Mr. J. S. MILL. I should think it a credit to any minister
to obtain the aid of abilities and principles like yours for the
public service, and an absolute disgrace not to avail himself of

them when offered.

    Dr. R. G. LATHAM. I have no hesitation in committing
myself to the opinion that any position which gave you leisure
and opportunity for continuing your labours in the direction in
which they already lie, would be a benefit not only to a limited
number of readers, but to the national literature and science in

general.

     Dr. J. D. HOOKER. I have been deeply impressed with
your accurate and extensive information, your vast power of
acquiring knowledge, and the sagacity with which you analyze
and generalize the facts and ideas which lay at the foundations
of both the Natural and Physical Sciences. Nor are you less
...happy in your manner of expounding your results than in your
methods of arriving at them.  In common with all your

friends, my great desire is to see you placed in some responsible
position, where you could devote a fair share of your time

to the solution of the great problems that occupy your attention,

feeling assured as I do, that wherever you may be placed, your
love of these sciences, your power of observation and reflection,
and your ability and promptness in treating of them, will lead
to your developing results of the greatest importance to the
advance of human knowledge and happiness.
Mr. GEORGE GROTE. I feel assured that your services are
likely to prove extremely valuable in any department of
administration to which you may be named : not merely from
such a combination of intellectual study with knowledge of
practical details, but also from that uprightness, sincerity of
character, and habit of diligent industry, which I know you to

possess besides.
     Professor CAMPBELL FRASER. I am happy to give my
...testimony to his power of invigorating and inspiring other
minds.  I should anticipate a salutary impulse to surrounding

opinion wherever he may be placed, from his fearless investiga-
tions, as well as valuable results to science from his habits of

unbiassed and laborious interpretations of phenomena.

    Sir HENRY HOLLAND. I am very desirous to aid, in any
way that may be in my power, the desire you express to obtain
1858-60] The Unification of Knowledge                  91

some office under Government. I may in part perhaps do this

by writing a few lines to convey my opinion of your eminent
fitness for any position, in which high honour and integrity are
required ; conjoined with equally high intelligence and mental
cultivation.

Professor HUXLEY. Founded as it is upon the accurate
observation of facts, science would soon stagnate if the co-
ordination of its data did not accompany their accumulation
and I can conceive nothing that would give a more vigorous

aimmpuoldseernto"  the progress of  "  science   than the promulgation of
                   novum organon        adapted   to the state of knowledge

in these days, and showing the unity of method of all science
and the mutual connexion and interdependence of all forms of

cognition.
     I cannot testify more strongly to my estimation of Mr.

Spencer's abilities, than by expressing my belief that if health

and moderate leisure be granted him, he will very satisfactorily
perform this necessary piece of work for us.

    Professor TYNDALL. It gives me pleasure to state that in
your writings I discern the working of a rarely gifted and a
rarely furnished mind. I do not know that I have met any-
where a deeper and truer spirit of research. Your facts are
...legion, and your power of dealing with them
...me almost without a parallel.                 is to

                                                 I would here express

the earnest hope that circumstances may be so shaped as to

enable you to apply powers of the rarest order, and knowledge
which it must have required long years of labour to attain, in

its advancement and propagation.

    Of the letters of thanks two only have been found
namely, to Dr. Hooker and Professor Huxley.

                               To J. D. HOOKER.

                                                                               16 December, 1858.

     Thank you very heartily for your valuable testimonial, and
the sympathetic expressions accompanying it. Of the one let
me say that it is quite the kind of thing I wanted, but much
better than I had dared to hope. . . .

     My reason for choosing this [a foreign consulship] as the
direction in which to seek an appointment was partly because
I thought the requisite leisure would thus be secured, and
partly because the office is one which I could undertake con-
sistently with my views on the limits of State-duty. But your
remarks give me pause. . . .

     I looked for you last night at the meeting of the Geological
Society, wishing to thank you in person, but I could not see you.
The evening was a triumph for Huxley, and rather damaging
for the progressive theory, as commonly held.
    92 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. vm.

      t

                                 To T. H. HUXLEY.

                                                          31 December, 1858.

         I scarcely know how adequately to thank you for your most
    cordial testimonial. It far surpasses what I had hoped. . . .

         I had no idea that you had so far divined my aim ; though
    you have given to it an expression that I had never thought of
    doing. I know that I have sometimes dropped hints ; but my
    ambition has of late been growing so wide that I have not dared
    fully to utter it to anyone. But that, having in some sort recog-
    nized       you, who so well know my weak points, should still
            it,

                I
    think that may do something towards achieving                  it,       assure

                                                                       iIs,

    you, an immense satisfaction, and will be to me a great en-

    couragement to persevere.

        Though fear few will realize the possibility, or at any rate
                I

    probability, that results of value may arise from giving me the
    opportunity of working out my aims, yet that one in your posi-
    tion should express this conviction cannot fail to be of important

    service to me.

         In pursuance of his idea of getting some post in

    connection with India he had applied to Lord Stanley, who,
    as well as Mr. Disraeli, expressed desire to help him.
                                                is
                    FROM LORD STANLEY.
                                                      Ia
                    EAST INDIA HOUSE, January, 1859.
                                                               4
      is I  have long been familiar with your works on Psychology
                                                                       I
    and Social Statics, and accept with pleasure the copies which

    you send, although have already other copies in my library.
                    ;

                      I
                             I
    Having read these works with close attention, require no
    further proof of your qualification in point of intellectual ability
    for public service and should be glad to be able to secure
    for the State the advantage of your talents and assiduity. But
    what fair catloledinf"orpmatroynoaugeth"at
I it        is                                  the amount     at  my disposal  of
                                                   but small.      . My power   of
                                                               .
                                                               .
                                                                 ;

                                                                         if
    furthering your wishes therefore very limited but you willis

    state to what particular branch of the service your wishes point,
    shall be better able to say whether see any prospect of being
    able to offer you employment.

                                 To HIS MOTHER.AI
                                                                     28 March, 1859.
                                a
         few days ago was much disheartened in consequence of
finding, in the course of conversation with Mr. Wilson, that
there were now very few posts that would at all suit me
very few that would give adequate leisure. . . . The only posts
that Mr. Wilson thought would be available were those of
stamp- distributors.
1858-60] The Unification of Knowledge                                                93

     These endeavours to find employment interfered with

the article on "The Morals of Trade," which was not
finished till January. At home for a few weeks he began

a paper on the relative values of the different kinds of

knowledge. He also made his first regular experiment in
dictation in the shape of a memorial from his father to the
Town Council about the houses in Bridgegate.

                To J. S. MILL.

                                        DERBY, 17 February, 1859.

     I should ere this have thanked you very much (as I now do)
for the copy of your Essay On Liberty, which you have been so
kind as to send me.
   In recent times the topic has been so much disgraced by
clap-trap declamation and the questionable characters of those
who have dealt with that has become one apt to call up
   I
                 I

                                it
                                        it,

                                        it
                                             it

                                                 it
                                                                         a
more or less derision in the minds of large class of people.
And greatly needing as did to be rescued from its damaging

associations, rejoice that has been taken up by one whose
name will beget for respectful consideration.

   am very glad, too, that you should have treated that aspect
of the matter which so greatly needs exposition the claims of
the individual versus those of society. Unfortunately, the notion
of Liberty has been so much mixed up with that of organic
reforms, that, with the mass of men, has come to be synony-
                                        ; it
mous with democratic government and many of those who
think themselves its warmest advocates are above all others

inclined to increase the tyranny of the State over individuals.

Indeed, the strong tendency there on the part of the workingis

classes to Over- Legislate has given me the only qualms have
                                                                                  I

had of late years respecting the effects of increased popular

power.

    You do not carry the assertion of private against public
claims quite so far as do. But though as matter of theory
            it                                                              it a

              II
                                :
                         it I
                                     I
I  could have wished for something further, yet, considered with

reference to its influence,             am glad your Essay asserts no

more than does  will have the greater weight with almost
              hope for great effects from in mitigating that
all readers.

mania for meddling which has been the curse of recent legis-
lation. And know of no more important service to the time

than to reform public opinion in this matter.

     The next letter acknowledges           a  copy of the pamphlet
on Parliamentary Reform.
94 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP, vm

                          To ]. S. MILL.

                                   LOXDOX, 25 March, 1859.

I scarcely know what to say respecting an educational
qualification ; but on the whole my leanings are, I think, rather
towards dissent than otherwise. Setting aside practical diffi-
culties, which I expect would be considerable, I doubt whether
education, of the elementary kind, is a trustworthy test of the
intelligence requisite to give a vote. The mass of those who
have the mere rudiments of education, are, I believe, as pro-

foundly ignorant of all matters bearing on legislation as those
who cannot read and write. By-and-bye, perhaps, as cheap
newspapers spread, it may become otherwise ; but at present
I fancy this is the case. Moreover, the sprinkling of artisans
who have made some use of their education, and are politically
         would not improbably make
active,                                  worse voters  [rather] than
better.   If the rest know nothing, the  knowledge of  these consists

chiefly of error. Preferring publications that promise them
impossible advantages, and reading only these, they contract

some of the wildest hopes and will listen to no criticism of
them ; and very generally their desire for political power origin-
ates in the determination to enact their utopias. The present

strike of the shoemakers (an intelligent body of artisans) against
the sewing-machine shows that, relatively to social phenomena,

they are no wriser than peasants.
I merely set down these considerations at random not

having thought out the question carefully.
Respecting the ballot I own to being very much shaken,
if not indeed converted.

May I draw your attention to a point in the representation
which seems to me of more importance than any other ? I
mean the propriety of insisting that those who have votes shall
personally pay rates. The tendency of late has been exactly
in the opposite direction. Small householders have been more
and more freed from direct taxes, without diminishing their

political power. Some years since they were disfranchised
when their landlords compounded for the rates ; but now it
is otherwise. The result is that the connexion between all
governmental action and the demand for taxes a connexion

far too faintly realized even under the most favourable cir-
cumstances is becoming less and less familiar to the working
class mind. The result is necessarilv an increased leaning
towards over-legislation. This is now conspicuously the case
in municipal governments. The municipal taxes being paid
by the landlords of small houses, and the tenants being not
reminded by increased rates that they have to pay for extra
municipal outlay, it has now become in towns the popular
policy to make public gardens, and build public baths, &c.,

at the town's expense : the popular candidate gains suffrages
1858-60] The Unification of Knowledge     95

by promising these things. If all the men who had political

power had constantly thrust upon them, in a quite distinct,
tangible manner, the fact that for every additional function
undertaken by the Government, general or local, they had to
pay so much the more money, there would be an efficient
check upon interference. I feel very much inclined to think
that representation may be safely extended so fast only as taxation
becomes direct and equitably distributed.

    A paper on Geology was dictated during a six weeks'
sojourn at home before going to Achranich. The following

are extracts from letters to his parents while he was in

Argyllshire.

     21 July, They are all very kind, and everything goes on
very agreeably. The weather is very fine and the scenery
magnificent.

     7 August. As I did before, I find this air rather enervating.
But I am sleeping well and enjoying myself greatly. . . .

    This is a capital place for studying geology, and especially
the geology of metamorphic rocks. There is an immense variety
of formations within a small area.

...4 September. Mrs. Smith has pressed me to stay as long
as I find it agreeable.  I am pretty well, but am rendered

rather stupid by this damp climate.

    13 September. Valentine Smith, with whom I was intending
to come south, does not start till Tuesday, and they have per-
suaded me to stay till he leaves. . . .

     We yesterday had the most charming excursion I ever had
in my life. We went by sea a boat containing twelve down
the Sound of Mull, up Loch Sunart and Loch Teacuis, and
home by land. The scenery was splendid and the colouring
marvellous. The day was one I shall never forget.

     He had got over the dread of society experienced during

the eighteen months following the writing of the Psychology.
Thus he writes (14 November) :

...Along with some others I supped with Hepworth Dixon,
the editor of the Athenceum, on Tuesday.  I dined with

Sir J. Trelawney on Saturday ; and at Massons' last night.
Notwithstanding which, I am very well to-day. I am . . .
feeling as usual the benefits of London. I think it not impro-
bable that the dry ness of the London air, from there being so
96 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. vin.

many miles of paved and roofed surface, is the cause of its
salubrity.

   All this was favourable to work. In addition to a review

of Bain's The Emotions and the Will, he finished an article

on the "Social Organism," and began one on "Prison Ethics."

For Macmillaris Magazine, to which Mr. Masson had asked
                                                              "The Physics
him to contribute, he     tthoooukghitnstoefadwrit"inTgheon
of Physiology," but                                          Physiology of

Laughter." When, many years after, he came upon the

letter to his father in which this, projected paper on the

"Physics of Physiology" is mentioned, he appended to it

the following note :

   I did not know that the conception of such an article dated
so far back ; but I have often since thought the topic one
which deserved special treatment. Indeed, there is ample
scope for a large work dealing with this division of biology.
The mass of medical men are generally very ignorant of

physics, and either misinterpret or fail to interpret many simple

...physiological phenomena from the absence of fit knowledge.
   A \vant of knowledge as thus illustrated
                                   a                         as say,

                                       I
                                                          it

                                                                        is,

                                                                          I
very general, and there needs scientific setting forth of all

such organic processes as come under ordinary physical laws.

. . . This scheme for an essay on "The Physics of Physi-
ology," which has an immense number of applications, was
for some reason not carried out.
                                   suppose must have been
that other essays took precedence of it.

   By the beginning of 1860 he had given up all hope of

obtaining an appointment that would make his livelihood

secure and at the same time allow him the leisure necessary

for writing system of philosophy. Most men in these
A
circumstances would have given up further attempts to
                    it a
combine ends apparently so incompatible, and would have

sacrificed philosophy. Not so Herbert Spencer. In letter
                                                             a
to his father, dated January 20, after mentioning            that he had
agreed to write an article for the Westminster on                              :" Reform
the Danger and the Safeguard," he adds " shall send you
                                          a:

                                               I
something that will surprise you in few days." This

referred to the programme of the System of Philosophy.

"    printed copy         bears a   note in hisI own handwriting
   Do not let this        be seen  at present.   want to take some

opinions on before finally issuing it." With some verbal
1858-60] The Unification of Knowledge                                       97

differences it is the same as the programme given in

Appendix A      of  the Autobiography. Only                     i"n    place of the
first sentence      finally adopted one reads:                       In most cases
                as

writers of philosophical books who are unable to bear heavy

losses, or have already lost what they had to lose, must

either be silent or must publish by subscription. The last

alternative Mr. Spencer proposes to adopt rather than leave

unwritten a connected series of works which he has for

several years been elaborating."
     From the replies to his circular the following are a few

pertinent extracts.

     Mr. R. CHAMBERS. It is certainly a very grand design, such
as few living men could have grappled with, or even conceived.
If you execute it in a manner at all attractive you will obtain a

great fame.

      Mr. H. T. BUCKLE. I am so sensible of the value of what

you are doing that you may rely on my co-operation as far as
my power extends.

     Mr. J. A. FKOUDE. May it (the projected work) answer all
the questions which your prospectus suggests. Your first pro-
position I confess myself unable to understand. Mansel says
his absolute is the unknowable. How by following out his

reasonings you are to establish a belief in                             am curious to
                               I

                                                                   it,

                                                               I
see. . . . But, by all means, let us hear what you have to

say.

      Sir JOHN HERSCHEL.       could wish you had not adopted
                               your programme the Shibboleth
in the  very    outset of      School of German Philosophy,             of the
Hegel   and     Schelling                                                " The

Absolute."

    Rev. CHARLES KINGSLEY. Anything from your pen will be

important to me and from your programme you are facing the
whole matter from that side from which must be faced, sooner

or later.
                    ;

                                  aI
                                               I

                                                            is
                                                            it
      Sir CHARLES LYELL.       hope you will not consider               it  im-

pertinent in me to remark that                    regret the first four lines
of your printed programme. There nothing in your writings
                                                  critic to
and   style  tolosesnetsit"le    even hostile      in your      raise up images
of u  heavy                    and unsaleability                future projected

works.

    F. W. NEWMAN. It must surely tend to public enlighten-a
ment that the works of one who has thought so continuously
should appear in continuous shape, provided only that you do

not become too voluminous.
98 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. vin.

                            FROM CHARLES DARWIN.

                                                               2 [February, I860.]
     From your letter I infer that you have not received a copy
of my book, which I am very sorry for. I tolcl Mr. Murray to

send you one, amongst the first distributed in November. . . .
I have now written a preface for the foreign editions and for
any future English edition (should there be one), in which I give
a very brief sketch [of the progress of opinion], and have with
much pleasure alluded to your excellent essay on Development
in your general Essays.

                                  To EDWARD LOTT.

                                                       10 February, 1860.

   Have you got a copy of the "Theory of Population," and if
so, can you find it ? I have no copy left save one that is cut
into parts for future use.
   I am just reading Darwin's book (a copy of which has been
searching for me since November               " aPnodpuhlaastioonnl"y  just come to
hand) and wyant to send him the                                        to show how
thoroughly his argument harmonizes with that which I have

used at the close of that essay.
     I shall shortly be sending you something which will surprise

you.

"    At  the foot of a copy of this letter Spencer has                 noted :
   This   makes it clear that the programme of the '                   System

of Philosophy,' in its finished form was drawn up before I
r"ePaodptuhleatiOornig,"in
                              of   Species."    Along  with the pamphlet on
                            he                Darwin   a note, acknowledging
                                  sent Mr.

the Origin of Species, and apparently remarking on it.

                                 FROM CHARLES DARWIN.

                                                             23 [February, I860].
     I write one line to thank you much for your note. Of my
numerous (private) critics, you are almost the only one who has
put the philosophy of the argument, as it seems to me, in a fair
way namely, as an hypothesis (with some innate probability,
as it seems to me) which explains several groups Of facts. 1
    You put the case of selection in your pamphlet on Popula-
tion in a very striking and clear manner.

     The issue of the programme seemed a favourable oppor-
tunity for carrying out the intention, expressed some years

         1 See also Life and Letters of Charles Darwin, ii., 290.
1858-60] The Unification of Knowledge    99

before, of trying to introduce his books to the American
public. The response from an American friend, Mr. Silsbee,
though somewhat vague, was not discouraging. In a sub-
sequent letter from the same correspondent, Mr. Edward
Livingston Youmans is for the first time brought to
Spencer's notice. Mr. Youmans's interest had been

awakened some years before on reading a notice of the
Principles of Psychology. No sooner had he read Spencer's
circular and programme than he wrote (February 23) a
letter the first of a long and important series full of
enthusiasm and promising hearty co-operation. He wished
to include, in a book he was about to bring out, two of
Spencer's educational articles, and deeply regretted Spencer's

refusal, "as it took from me the instrument upon which 1

prospectively and chiefly relied for advancement of your
larger enterprise. Upon taking hold of the matter I en-
counter the difficulty which I anticipated : it is that you are

almost unknown to the people." 1
     The article on " Parliamentary Reform : the Dangers

and Safeguards " was published in April, and that on
" Prison Ethics" in July. The former was the last of the
essays written for the Quarterly Reviews prior to the com-
mencement of his great undertaking. About the writing
of it he says in a memorandum :

      It was, moreover, the most rapidly written article which I
ever published. At the time I had engaged an amanuensis who
could write shorthand, and who during the pauses of my dicta-
tion was in the habit of transcribing his shorthand into long-
hand. This, of course, was a considerable economy of time ;
and I remember observing that I then achieved a page of print
per hour a rate of composition which I never before nor after
equalled.

Edward Livingston Youmuns, pp. 104-110.
                     100

                         CHAPTER IX.

                        FIRST PRINCIPLES.

                     (May, I860 February, 1863.)

     THE following letter marks the beginning of what was
described by Mrs. Huxley as the long path he had marked
out for himself to travel.

                                 To His FATHER.

                                                          18 TORRINGTON SQUARE,
                                                                                  8 May, 1860.

     I am fixed as above pretty comfortably. I began writing
yesterday, and did better than I expected. Number of
subscribers is now 280. Holyoake's are coming in ; and I
doubt not I shall get 350 without America.

He had not been many days at work when bad nervous

symptoms drove him to Brighton for a few days. The

month following he wrote, backing out of the arrangement

previously  made     to join his father at Treport for the holidays.
" Health    is the-    first consideration, especially under my

present engagements; and I am very decidedly of opinion

that I shall benefit more by joining Lott's party at Llandudno

than by going to France. . . . Add to which that it will

be more economical, which just now is a consideration."

Eventually, putting economy aside, he did both ; spent

first a short time at Llandudno and then joined his father

and mother at Treport, returning to London in July. News

from the United States was encouraging ; putting him at

ease as to the financial aspect of his undertaking. In a list

of some of the earlier American subscribers one meets the

names of George Bancroft, Henry Ward Beecher, Henry
W. Bellows, F. Bowen, J. I. Bowditch, Henry C. Gary, E.
H. Chapin, George W. Curtis, J. W. Draper, Edward Everett,

NOTE. Autobiography, ii., chaps, xxxvii., xxxviii.
1860-63]  First Principles                                                                                                     101

C. C. Felton, John W. Francis, Dr. Furness, Walcott Gibbs,
Asa Gray, Horace Greeley, E. E. Hales, Geo. S. Hillard,
F. H. Hodge, Francis Lieber, J. R. Lowell, W. B. Rogers,
Jared Sparks, Charles Sumner, Bayard Taylor, George
Ticknor, E. P. Whipple, Jeffries Wyman.

     On his way to Achranich in September he spent a few
days at home. The first of the two following extracts
acknowledges the return of proofs of First Principles, the
second gives expression to his sympathy on the occasion of

a domestic bereavement. 1

                               To T. H. HUXLEY.

                                                         DERBY, 11 September, 1860.
     I was, as you may suppose, immensely gratified to have
from you so decided an expression of approval. Coming from
you, who are so critical and sceptical, it took me somewhat
by surprise ; and the more so because I feared that this first
part would prove a choke-pear to the subscribers. Judge, then,
how great a relief it was to read your letter.

     Achranich, 23 September. I sincerely sympathize with you
and your wife in your great loss, knowing as I do how much
you prized your little boy. I well remember your having told
me how his existence had disclosed to you a new side of your
nature, previously dormant ; and I can well understand how
one, feeling so deeply the interests of parenthood, not only
on their instinctive, but on their rational side, must be affected
by such a catastrophe.

     He would not allow Professor Huxley or Dr. Hooker
to remain as paying subscribers, for the reason given in a
letter of 6 October, 1860. " I have all along calculated on
obtaining from you much aid in the shape of information,
advice, and criticism ; and may, I fear, if you will allow me,
from time to time, trouble you a good deal with ques-
tions and discussions. Though in such a case a pepper-corn
acknowledgement, in the shape of a presentation copy,
leaves the obligation just where it was, yet there is a certain
satisfaction in going through the form of an acknowledge-
ment ; and this satisfaction you must not deny me." 2

    1 Life of Professor Huxley, 212-4.
       Professor Huxley's letter of loth October, 1860 (Life and Letters,

   214) in reply to the above letter. His biographer, when referring
to the circumstances in which the letter was written, was misled, owing
to Spencer having, through oversight, endorsed on the letter that was
written in 1866, when he had issued notice of discontinuance.
i.,

      2

           is

                                                                 i.,
                                                                  a

                                                                                                                           it
IO2             Life of Herbert Spencer               [CHAP. ix.

                         To Mrs. POTTER.

                                         LONDON, 25 October^ 1860.

     Have you seen the volume of Essays by Jowett and Co. ?
They appear to be creating a considerable sensation. As com-
ing from some of the most influential men connected with

the Church, they are extremely significant of the progress of

opinion. . . .
By the way, referring to matters bearing upon the current
theology, let me horrify you by the announcement of a recent
             There                       sent over from Germany
discovery.   Lyell  has    just    been  skull, found along with              to
Sir Charles         the  cast    of a "                                      the

bones of the mammoth and other extinct mammals which lived

during the period of the drift," or latest geologic epoch. And
this skull, which, judging from the remains with which it is
found, was contemporaneous with those flint implements which

have lately been creating so great a sensation, by proving the
vast antiquity of the human race this skull, mark, is inter-
mediate between that of the gorilla and that of man ! There is
a startling fact for you.

    After this, anything else would be bathos, so I will leave off.
With kindest regards to Mr. Potter and the little girls.

     He was afraid that the delay in the issue of the first
number of the serial might prejudice his interests in the
United States, but Dr. Youmans set his mind at rest on

that score.

                FROM EDWARD LIVINGSTON YOUMANS.

                                          6 October, 1860.

I was anxious to get the volume on Education out at the

earliest moment,    before  atbhoeut firtsht atpa"rtUnokfnotwheabslee,r"ial    arrives.
                    know                                                     we have
We don't exactly
great faith in it, undoubtedly ; but we are sure of the weapon
in hand and prefer to open the campaign with that. I there-
fore by no means regret the delay of the first part, nor need

you trouble yourself to hasten the sending of it now. 1

     Hardly had he settled down to work when he was

summoned to Derby, owing to the illness of his uncle
William an illness which had a fatal termination towards

the end of November. The legacy left by his uncle put
him in possession of funds likely to be needed if his literary
project was to be carried out. The number of subscribers,

                1 Edward Livingston Youmans, p. 1 12
1860-63]                      First Principles                                                                                                                           103

if it could be kept up, would suffice to pay the cost of

publication and yield him a small income provided there

were no defaulters. But it would not prove sufficient if

there came a falling away of subscribers and bad debts.

Even already there were indications that there might be

difficulty in meeting the printer's bill, to say nothing of

earning a living. The legacy came, therefore, at an oppor-

tune time.

     Early in 1861 the second number was issued, and "so

far  as I have at present     heard,   meets with high   approval."
He     mentions that he       was "   attending various  lectures

seven this week," leading his father to fear a break-down.

No letters between February 13 and June 14 are to be
found ; but one gathers from the Autobiography (ii., 65) that
coincident with the bringing out of No. 3 of the serial there
was a relapse ; that he sought relaxation in visits to Standish

and Derby ; and that during these visits he revised the

articles on Education, which he saw through the Press in

May and June. As usual, he improved at Achranich (or
Ardtornish, as his friend's Argyllshire home was now called)
in July and August, and looked forward to being "able to

go ahead with the work on return." This expectation was

not realised ; for soon after arriving in town the strain of

bringing out his fourth instalment proved too much. By

twhheermeid"dlcehaonfgeOctoofbearir,hechwaansgeconotfemscpelnaet,ingengtioreingreltaoxaPtaiorins,,

and plenty of amusement, will, I hope, soon set me right."

The Autobiography makes no mention of this visit, and

beyond a reference to letters written in Paris on Novem-

ber 5 and 15, the above is the only hint of it. That it
answered his expectations for a time at least may be inferred

from a letter, dated Torrington Square, December 12, in
which he says : " I am improving considerably ; and have

done a fair share of work this week without detriment."

Early in 1862 we find him in Bloomsbury Square, which
   he fears, " too far away from the most of my friends."
it is,
    is

                    I

                                a

                                                                                        :
                                                                                                                                                                      ;
     In May he tells his father "The chapter on 'Equilibra-

tion,' which        am   now  revising,  works out  "bEeqauutilifibulrlaytionbu"t
        giving  me      good  deal of    trouble."

had been giving him trouble for several years. In an

undated letter to Professor Tyndall from 13, Loudoun
iO4  Life of Herbert Spencer                    [CHAP. ix.

Road, written probably towards the end of 1858 or very
early in the year following, he says :

     Had not the announcement of coffee prevented, I had hoped
to carry much further the discussion we commenced on Satur-
day evening. Lest you should misunderstand me, let me briefly
say now what I wished to say.

     In the first place, I fully recognize, and have all along
recognized, the tendency to ultimate equilibrium ; and have,

after sundry other chapters on the general laws of change, a

final one entitled "The Equilibration of Force." Indeed, of
the general views which I have of late years been working out,

this was oddly enough the first reached. Among memoranda
jotted down for a second edition of Social Statics memor-
randa written towards the close of '51, or early in '52 I have
some bearing on this law in its application to society. . . .
Thus, you see, that my views commit me most fully to the
doctrine of ultimate equilibration.

     That which wras new to me in your position enunciated last
June, and again on Saturday, was that equilibration was death.
Regarding, as I had done, equilibration as the ultimate and
highest state of society, I had assumed it to be not only the
ultimate but also the highest state of the universe. And your
assertion that when equilibrium was reached life must cease,
staggered me. Indeed, not seeing my way out of the con-
clusion, I remember being out of spirits for some days after-
wards. I still feel unsettled about the matter, and should like
some day to discuss it with you. 1

     The completed volume was published the third week of
June, when he gave himself up to relaxation, acting as guide
at the International Exhibition to his parents and others.
This summer's visit to Scotland, whither he went after two
weeks in Wales, is described with more than usual fulness
in the Autobiography (ii., 77-83), owing probably to its
having been mainly a walking tour. Of the scenery from
Invergarry to Loch Alsh he writes : " I have seen some
magnificent scenery the finest I have seen in the kingdom."
This enjoyable tour was made shorter than he intended by
the arrival from New York of Dr. and Mrs. Youmans, whom
he arranged to meet in Glasgow. After a few days spent
with them, he went South, taking Derby and Coventry on
the way, London being reached by the middle of September.

     ' See Appendix. "The Filiation of Ideas."
1860-63]              First Principles                      105

his  While  aw" aNyo  he had been on     the look-out for notices of
     book.             reviews of First  Principles have reached me
yet," he writes in July. " It is a book that reviewers are

glad to put off as long as they can." October brought
several notices : among them the article on " Science,

Nescience, and Faith," in the National Review for October,

which is thus referred to :

                      To His FATHER.

                             9, GLOUCESTER SQUARE,

     ...It is  evidently by Martineau.          3 October, 1862.

                                         When you get to the
end of it you will see pretty clearly that it is animated by a
spirit of retaliation for the attack I made upon him. It is
clever, as might be expected ; but it contains sundry cases of
the usual Martineau Jesuitisms and dishonesties ascribing to

....me things which I have not said, and misinterpreting things

which I have said
     The Westminster Review devotes three pages to the book.
. . . But the tone of it is somewhat tepid as I expected it
would be.

     The British Quarterly has given me an agreeable surprise.
In its epilogue on books and affairs under the head of Science,
there is a brief notice very cordially expressed, stating that

they . . . propose to devote an article to it in their next

number. It is rather odd that here, where I had expected most

antagonism, there is most recognition. . . .                I
     I am well and getting on with my work satisfactorily.
was strongly tempted to go to Cambridge [to the British
Association], but concluded that the excitement would be too
much for me.

     ...13 October. I think I told you that I had promised to go
to Paris with Mr. Silsbee.   I shall have a quantity of work
with me to revise, which will occupy me during my stay of
three weeks or so ; so that I shall not lose any time.

     As usual, he very soon got weary of Paris and returned
in a fortnight. As soon as he came back he took up Mr.
Martineau's review of First Principles. In a letter to the

Athencenm (November 8) he mentioned that the National

reviewer has classed him "with a school whose religious

conclusions I repudiate, alike on logical grounds and as
a matter of sentiment." In a second letter he adduced

evidence to show that he had ample justification for charac-
io6           Life of Herbert Spencer  [CHAP. ix.

terizingthe   revTiehweer"'sagsrteaeteambleentssurapsri"sme i"srgeipvreensebnytatthioensBritaisnhd
grave ones."

Quarterly Review in October was not long-lived. The next

issue showed that his original expectation was not far wrong.

For in the promised review his analysis of ultimate religious
ideas is described as sounding "like a great blazon of
trumpets over a very small victory." The analysis of ulti-
mate scientific ideas "is occasionally tedious, but if the

tediousness be overlooked, is very amusing, or might easily

be made so."

     Spencer objected to press notices of his books being
used for advertizing purposes. But to satisfy Dr. Youmans,

whom he wisely recognized as the best judge of what
was expedient for the American public, he sent, early

in 1863, a collection of such notices. "As I told you,

I do not propose to have them quoted in England ;
having a decided dislike to the practice. But I have

no objection to their being used in the United States, if
you think it will be desirable." There was indeed an

urgent necessity for something being done there to sustain
the interest that had been aroused in 1860. The unsettled

political condition during 1861 had been "deadly to
generous support " of such literature as did not bear upon
the struggle in which the country was engaged.

                              To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                       27 February, 1862.
     When next you favour me with a letter I shall be very glad
to hear from you what is the present state of affairs and opinions
respecting the secession. One sees here nothing more than ex-
tracts from American papers, and these are mostly from papers
which probably do not truly represent the real feeling that
prevails among you.

                               FROM E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                                                        4 April, 1862.
     The fact is incontestible that the North is fighting for
liberty, order, free industry, education, and the maintenance
of stable government, while the South is contending for the
opposite slavery and its dark' concomitants. Here the thing
is well understood, but wherefore England should sympathize
with the South, I confess, is not understood. How the views
of large classes in England may be warped by their interests
1860-63]  First Principles  107

is plain ; and how the newspapers may be influenced is also
obvious ; but how your dignified and philosophic Quarterlies
can be brought to utter such unjust sentiments and flagrant
misconceptions as their last issues contained, we are unable to
explain. Do those Reviews fairly represent British feeling ?

                               To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                               15 May, 1862.

     I am glad to see by the last account that the North is making
great progress. I have held all along that whatever may be the
solution to be finally desired, it is quite necessary that the North
should show its power ; and I rejoice to see it now doing this.
I think Dr. Draper, in common with most other Americans

over-estimates what adverse feeling there is here. . . . Such
adverse feeling as does exist is due to what we consider here
to be the perverse misinterpretation of our motives the sus-
picion that our commercial interests must bias us in favour of
the South, and then the twisting of whatever we said and did
into proof that we were biassed in favour of the South. As far
as I had the means of judging, the feeling here was at first very
decidedly on the side of the North ; and the change that has
taken place has, as far as I have been able to observe, [been]
wholly due to the cause I have assigned. But that feeling,
however caused, has now very considerably abated.

     14 February, 1863. I am grieved to see the recent news
respecting the state of the war. Though, as you know, I have
all along held that it was both a necessary thing, and a desirable
thing, that the separation should take place, yet I have always
hoped to see the South restrained within narrow limits, and
regard as disastrous, both for America and the world at large,
anything which looks like a possibility of extension in their

territory.
                             io8

                     CHAPTER X.

                            BIOLOGY.

               (September, 1862 March, 1867.)

ON his return from his holiday in September, 1862, he

at once began the Principles of Biology, the first number
of which was issued in January, 1863, and the second in

April.

The announcement of Mr. Mill's Utilitarianism afforded

him an opportunity of stating more clearly than he had

done in Social Statics, his attitude towards the doctrine of

Utility. The greater part of his letter of February 24, 1863,

appears in      the  hAoupteobiothgartaph"y     (ii., 88).            It concludes by
expressing     the                           the above                explanations will

make it clear that I am not really an antagonist to the

doctrine of Utility. If not a Utilitarian in the direct sense,

I am still a Utilitarian in the transcendental sense."

                     FROM J. S. MILL.           25 February, 1863.

I am obliged to you for your letter, and if the sheet is not
struck off (which I fear it  will add to the note [pp. 91-2]
                             iIs)

                                            is
in which you are mentioned, what                necessary to prevent the

misapprehension you desire to guard against.
Your explanation narrows the ground on which we differ,
               does not remove our difference for, while agree
though  I                    a                                                    I

           it                             I
                                                                   ;
with you in discountenancing purely empirical mode of judg-
ing of the tendencies of human actions, and would on that
subject, as well as on all others, endeavour to reach the widest

and most general principles attainable, cannot admit that any
of these principles are necessary, or that the practical conclu-
sions which can be drawn from them are even (absolutely)

universal.

As am writing cannot refrain from saying that your
                     I

                                  a
                                                                               a
First Principles appear to me striking exposition of consistent

NOTE. Autobiography, ii., chaps, xxxix., xl., xli., xlii., xliii., xliv.
1862-67]           Biology                                        109

and imposing system of thought ; of which, though I dissent
from much, I agree in more.

                   To J. S. MILL.                 1 March, 1863.

I am greatly obliged to you for having not only made the

desired alteration, but allowed me to see the proof. Taking
advantage of your permission, I have ventured to make, in

pencil, such changes of expression as are needed more com-

pletely to represent my view.

20 March. I am much obliged to you for the copy of your
                                        Let me also thank you
reprinted essays on Utilitarianism
for having so readily acceded to my request respecting the
explanation, as well as for having introduced the modifications
of expression in it which I suggested.

                                 To HIS FATHER.

                                                                                 9 June, 1863.

     For myself I am well and busy going out a good deal, and
indeed rather too much. Saturday and Sunday I spent at the
Lubbocks, along with Huxley and his wife, and Tyndall. On
Wednesday I dine out again, on Friday again, and again on
Sunday. . . . On the Friday I am going specially to meet
Lady Lubbock, who, Mrs. Lubbock says, is ''dying to see me." 1

Having issued the third number of the Biology, and

taking with him the Essays he proposed to revise, he went

about  the middle   of July to see his mother     at Scarborough.
While   there he   writes to his father : " I     find my mother

looking pretty well and in tolerably good spirits. . . . Your

hand is very much bolder, whence I infer that you are con-
siderably better. . . For myself I am very well and comfort-

ably placed, and like Scarborough much for its variety and

picturesqueness." From Scarborough he went to the West

of Scotland, in company with Mr. Lott and another friend,

eventually reaching Ardtornish.

His interests in the United States were being well looked

after  by Dr.  Youmans, who thus describes the       two objects
to be  aimed   at : " To circulate your writings as   extensively

as possible, and to do it in such a manner that you might

share the pecuniary results. It has been comparatively

easy to accomplish the first object unembarrassed by the

                   1 See Autobiography, ii., 71.
no       Life of Herbert Spencer                                             [CHAP. x.

second." Mr. Appleton being ready to share the risk of

publishing a selection from the Essays, though not seeing

his way to take the whole of                 1        Dr. Youmans set about

securing the necessary support, which was more liberal thanit,

Spencer could accept, though he warmly appreciated the

generosity that prompted it. But he acquiesced in an

arrangement according to which his American friends were

to provide the publishers with the stereotype plates, on the

understanding that no royalty should be paid to him until

his friends had been   recouped              their outlay. In the Auto-
biography he says "   This was,                believe, the course eventu-
                    :

                                I
                                         I

                                                                          a
ally adopted. Funds were raised to pay the cost of reprinting

the several volumes named, and after those who furnished

them had been recouped, began to receive royalty on all

copies   sroelcdo."llectiSonubsoefq"uethnet   correspondence does not bear
out his                                      course eventually adopted."

                    FROM E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                      if                January, 1865.
                                                                       1
                                                                 it
As respects the copyright money sent you, or the certiricates
of its investment,                                                        accrues to you
         &            have only to say that
                 I                                       you do not draw
from the sale of your books, and                                             it
D. Appleton Co. will have the benefit of it.                                               it,
When your letter, refusing to accept anything from the
avails of your books until all who had subscribed to their

republication were repaid, was received, circulated                          among
                                                         I

those principally interested. They appreciated your feelings in
the matter, but said your scruples were groundless, as you

totally misconceived the case that they had aided to republish
the works for public reasons, as they had perfect right to do,
                                                      a
                                                               a
and were ready, desirable, to increase their contributions, but
         it
              if
not to receive back what they had so gladly given. They have
not regarded at all in the light of personal matter, nor can
they be made to do so now. While they consider themselves
richly compensated by the success of your works, and the
unmistakable symptoms of their powerful influence upon public

opinion, the fact that the'author gets his just compensation                            is

regarded as an agreeable incident of the enterprize.
And now allow me to remind you of remark you made some
                                                      a

time since to the effect that you had better leave this business
of reprints to us on this side and take no responsibility in the
matter.

1   Edward Livingston Youmans, p. 161. Autobiography, ii., 97.
1862-67]  Biology                             in

                              To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                 23 January, 1865.
     I am very much impressed by the manifestation of sympathy
and generosity implied in your explanation respecting the
proceeds of copyright. I should have preferred that the matter
should have been transacted in the modified way that I origin-
ally requested, and I feel somewhat uncomfortable under the
much heavier obligation entailed on me by the course pursued ;
but, at the same time, this extreme self-sacrifice displayed by
my American friends is a source of very pleasurable feeling
to me, not only in its personal aspects, but also as a testimony
of their interest in the propagation of the views with which I
am identified.

     The success of the Essays had suggested the expediency
of bringing out an American edition of Social Statics.

                               FROM E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                     12 April, 1864.
     I think you once remarked to me that certain of your views
had been considerably modified since the publication of Social
Statics, but as you intimated that the change consisted in a
divergence from the democratic views there expressed, the
volume may be more acceptable to us in its present form than
it would be after your revision. 1

                              To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                              18 May, 1864.
     Respecting Social Statics, I gave you a somewhat wrong
impression if you gathered from me that I had receded from
any of its main principles. The parts which I had in view,
when I spoke of having modified my opinions on some points,
were chiefly the chapters on the rights of women and children.

I should probably also somewhat qualify the theological form of
expression used in some of the earlier chapters. But the
essentials of the book would remain as they are. When you
come to the reprinting of Social Statics, should that project be
persevered in, I should like to put a brief prefatory note, stating

my present attitude towards it. 2

     Dr. Youmans hoped that Spencer would devote sufficient
space to put readers in full possession of his later views.
When the promised preface was sent in November, Spencer

          Edward Livingston Youmans, p. 176.

          Ibid., p. 1 80.
ii2        Life of Herbert Spencer                  [CHAP. x.

wrote : " I fear it will disappoint you in not containing any
specific explanations. But I could not make these in any
satisfactory way without occupying more space than would
be desirable and more time than I can now afford. I

think, too, it will be better policy at present to leave the
disclaimer in the comparatively vague form in which I have

put it."

           FROM E. L. YOUMANS.

                                            1 January, 1865.

I was not disappointed in it as a disclaimer, but was some-
what so that it was only a disclaimer. I had hoped there would
be a little of something else to relieve it of its naked, negative
...character. . . . But the effect of this preface in its present form
will undoubtedly be bad upon the work.       If I had followed
my own preference I would have written a preface saying
certain things which I could very well have said, and absorbing
...the entire contents of your preface into it as a private letter,
stating your present attitude to the work.   I do not pur-
pose to change a word nor to neutralize its influence by

counter-statements ; but simply, by distributing it through
another medium, to somewhat diminish the injurious effect
which it will have by being placed and read alone.

                              To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                  23 January, 1865.
     Pray do as you think best respecting the preface to the
American edition of Social Statics. Probably it will be better
to embody the explanations I have made in an introduction
of your own, as you propose. All I wish to make under-
stood that the book must be read with some qualifications
and this end will be as well achieved in your own [words]
as in mine.
                                            is,
                                                              it

                                                                                                  ;

"After repeated attempts to comminute and macerate"

the preface Dr. Youmans had to give up, and let appear
                                        it
as Spencer had put it.
                                                  A

                                                                it
The fourth instalment of the Biology had been delayed

partly owing to his having devoted some three months

to the revision of second series of Essays.         more serious
     a
                                a
interruption was caused by his having turned aside to set

himself right as to his relations to Comte and Positivism.

In letter to the New Englander towards the end of

November, 1863, he repudiated being classed as follower
                                                    a

of Comte.
1862-67]                 Biology                   113

     On all . . . points that are distinctive of his philosophy,
I differ from him. I deny his hierarchy of the Sciences. I
regard his division of intellectual progress into three phases,
theological, metaphysical and positive, as superficial. I reject
utterly his religion of humanity. And his ideal of society I
hold in detestation. Some of his minor views I accept ; some
of his incidental remarks seem to me profound ; but from
everything which distinguishes Comtism as a system, I dissent
entirely.

When he wrote to the New Euglander he had no idea

of going beyond the immediate purpose of correcting the

misapprehension in the United States. But it now occurred

to him that it might be well to set forth his views in full,

and immediately on his return from Derby in January, 1864,
he set about doing this. Once more he was led further

than he at first intended.  While preparing the    pamphlet
on " The Classification of  the Sciences," there   appeared

M. Laugel's article in the Revue des Deux Mondes for
"IFebruary 15, 1864.
                         find the impression that I belong

to the school of Comte is so general," he tells his father,
"and so likely to be confirmed by M. Laugel's article, that

I am about to write a full denial on all points." Proofs
of " Reasons for Dissenting from the Philosophy of M.

Comte" were sent to Mr. G. H. Lewes. 1 Several scientific

men were invited to say whether Comte had influenced

them, or any men they knew. The gist of their replies

was embodied in the pamphlet, but after it had been put

in type this paragraph was omitted.

                               To E. L. YOUMANS.
                                                                     26 March, 1864.

     I enclose along with this a slip-proof of a portion which I
suppressed from the pamphlet, from a desire not to seem
needlessly hostile to the Comtists here. I do not suppose you
will find any use for it. But if you do, do not make use of
my name. Since having suppressed it from the pamphlet here,
it is not desirable that I should assert it elsewhere.

     The suppressed paragraph, besides summarizing the
denials of Tyndall, Huxley, Herschel, Babbage, Lyell and

in;^Autobiography, ii.,  also Appendix B, p. 485.  George Eliofs

Life, ii., 381.

8
114         Life of Herbert Spencer                                            [CHAP. x.

Faraday that their course of thought had been influenced

by Comte, points out how scientific conceptions and me-

athcocedpstarnecpeudiaantdedgrbeyateCromdetefinhitaedn,esnse.ver"thTehleusss,   gained wider
                                                                               not only have

M. Comte's teachings failed to change in any appreciable

way the course of scientific thought in England ; but its

most marked advances have been in directions which he

says it should not take."

    With reference to this question, he wrote to Mr. Mill

enquiring   whether a letter  dated 29 July, I858, 1 was still in
existence.    " Unless I am   very much mistaken respecting

its contents, this letter would form tolerably conclusive
evidence " as to the actual origin of the system of phil-

osophy.

            FROM J. S. MILL.         3 April, 1864.

     I am, fortunately, able to send you the letter you want. No
Englishman who has read both you and Comte, can suppose
that you have derived much from him. No thinker's con-

clusions bear more completely the marks of being arrived at by
the progressive development of his own original conceptions. . . .
But the opinions in which you agree with Comte, and which, as
you truly observe, are in no way peculiar to him, are exactly
those which would make French writers class you with him ;
because, to them, Comte and his followers are the only thinkers
who represent opposition to their muddy metaphysics.
     I myself owe much more to Comte than you do, though in

my case also, all my principal conclusions had been reached
before I saw his book. But in speculative matters (not in
practical) I often agree with him where you do not, and, among
other subjects, in this particular one, the Classification of the
Sciences. The fact you mention of your having read only a
portion of his Cours de Philosophic Positive, explains some things
to me which I did not understand previously ; for, if you had
read the entire book, I think you would have recognized that
several of the things which you urge as objections to his theory,
are parts of the theory.
     I have lately had occasion to re-read, and am still reading,

your Principles of Psychology. I do not agree any more than I
did before with the doctrine of the introduction ; but as to the
book itself, I cannot help expressing to you how much my
opinion of though already high, has been raised hope from
   progress in my own mind) by this new reading. There
a
                      it,

                                                            1

                                                                                       (I
                                                                                                                      is
            Autobiography, ii., 23.
1862-67]                      Biology                                                                                             115

much of it that did not by any means strike me before as it does
now ; especially the parts which show how large a portion
of our mental operations consist in the recognition of relations
between relations. It is very satisfactory to see how you and
Bain, each in his own way, have succeeded in affiliating the
conscious operations of mind to the primary unconscious
organic actions of the nerves, thus filling up the most serious
lacuna and removing the chief difficulty in the association

psychology.

                              To J. S. MILL.  8 April, 1864.

     I am greatly obliged to you for your letter of the 3rd,
enclosing the letter I referred to, which has been so fortunately
preserved. Your expression of opinion on the question at

issue was also extremely satisfactory to me : coming as it
does from one so fully acquainted with the facts of the case,

and so free from bias. It has served to confirm me in the
belief that the position I have taken is a justifiable one.
     Let me thank you also for the very gratifying expression

of your opinion respecting the Principles of Psychology. I need
scarcely say that, coming from you, this favourable criticism
gives me a better assurance than any which I have yet had, that
the book has not been written in vain.
     Respecting the doctrine of the introduction, I have hitherto
postponed returning to the question until the time when a
second edition afforded an opportunity to do so. But as you
                          seems proper now to say, that believe
have referred toIt it,                        a

                      it                               I
the disagreement arises mainly from                                I

                                                                        it
                                                                               I
                                              difference of verbal

ihunantvdeeerprsrdetootaontdeio, na.tshatthethdeeiqduwinvooartldenotc"ciunorcfont"oceinmivcaerbeldweihbel"en.w" asuBslyieadbalne    as
                                                                                                                                  to be
                                                                                                                                  incon-

ceivable proposition,         in all cases, meant an unthinkable
             a

                          I,
proposition  proposition of \vhich the elements cannot be

united in consciousness cannot be thought of in direct relation.

    Towards the end of his letter of 3rd April, Mr. Mill

mentions with approval the work being done by Professor

Bain and Spencer, each in his own way. The differences

between these two on philosophical questions seemed but to

bring out more clearly their regard for one another
                                                                                                                                  is
                                                                                                                                          a
regard (already strong in those early days) which grew in

strength as year succeeded year. The following                                                                                    an

acknowledgement of the second edition of The Senses and

the Intellect, which Professor Bain had kept back as long

as possible in order to be in possession of Spencer's latest

utterances in the Biology.
         u6       Life of Herbert Spencer                                [CHAP. x.

                                      To ALEXANDER BAIN.

                                                             March, 1864.

     I see that you have made some references to my speculations
and criticisms ; and have done so in a very friendly spirit. I am
the more gratified by this, because I feared that you might 'be
somewhat annoyed by my review of your second volume. I
am very glad to find that the differences of opinion which I

freely expressed in                          have not induced any disagreeable
             I

                                        it,
feeling.     am, indeed, impressed with the great generosity of
nature which your reception of them implies.

a             His health and power of work were about this time
        a
         better than usual. The excitement accompanying his
         criticism of Comte had, he thought, done him good. The
         social excitements of the London season were also borne
         for time without injury. But by midsummer he had

         to admit that he had been going out too much. After
         bringing his mother home from Matlock, and spending

            short time with the Lotts in Wales, he went to Scotland.

                                      To HIS FATHER.

                                             ARDTORNISH, 28 August, 1864.

             have now been here nine days and the time has passed
         II                                            ;
                     I                have been very cordially treated more so
                               I                        I
very pleasantly.
         than usual, think. . . .
             have declined Bain's invitation.                did not dare to run the

         risk of discussions.

             October. The opening article in the North American
         is 7
                                  is
         Review for July one on the Nebular Hypothesis taking for
         text my second series of Essays.                  disagrees on some points,
                                                       It

         but very civil and complimentary.

     About   the middle of                   October,   the  concluding  number of
the first    volume of the                              was   issued. "
             he writes next                   Biology        reading in  Fancy my
disgust,"                                     month,   " on              the list of

         the books of the week in the London Review, my own just

         published volume announced as Electro- Biology, vol. . .
                                                                         i.     .

I        am getting on with my writing satisfactorily, and am

         working out the Morphology of Plants with unexpected

         success." The issue of the first number of vol.                 I ii.  was
                                                                                am
         delayed "in consequence of the number of woodcuts
         having prepared in illustration of vegetal morphology. The
         choice and arrangement and execution of these gives great
                                                                         a
1862-67]                          Biology                             117

deal of trouble, and keeps me tied here. I shall not, in

consequence, be able to get down to Derby till after

Christmas." As if his biological work were not enough to

have on hand at one time, he took an active part along with

a few friends in an attempt to reorganize the Reader. He
                                               " What                     "
himself contributed     four      articles  :          is  Electricity
" The Constitution     of the      Sun,"                                ?

                                            "The Collective Wisdom,"
and " Political Fetichism." Endeavours were made to

obtain the co-operation of- men of standing.

                             To CHARLES DARWIN.

                                                                       22 April, 1865.

     We are getting our staff of the Reader into better working
order ; and are proposing forthwith to use all the means avail-
able for making a more decided impression, and establishing
our position. Profs. Huxley and Tynclall, Mr. J. S. Mill and
myself, have severally agreed to write a few leading articles by
way of giving the intended tone and direction.

     Among other means of making the public aware of the
character of the Reader, we propose to obtain, so far as pos-
sible, occasional brief letters from the leading men of science,
announcing such interesting novelties as admit of being under-
stood by the general public, and are of fit nature to be quoted
from our columns. I have a letter from Sir John Herschel con-
senting to aid us in this way. Sir Charles Lyell, too, has pro-
mised the like aid. Can you in like manner give us, occasionally,
the valuable help of your name ? . . .

     A letter of a dozen lines would suffice the purpose of giving
us the weight of your name, and making it apparent that you
joined in the effort to establish a scientific journal, and an organ

of progressive opinion.

                       To J. S. MILL.

                                                       26 May, 1865.

I hope you are better satisfied with the Reader, It is
rapidly improving in circulation ; but I fear we shall now have
to pass through a trying period, during which the want of
advertisements will be very much felt.
It appears that the putting of initials to articles is not of

very  much    service    many of  the public having been quite in       the
dark   as to  who "               was. It is suggested that the         full
                       J. S. M."
names should be put. What is your feeling on this point ?
The article some weeks since on the Edinburgh Review
caused a breach with the Longmans, as was to be expected.
They had not advertised for some time previously, and of
course have not done so since.
ii8                      Life of Herbert Spencer                                         [CHAP. x.

                         FROM J. S. MILL.

                                          AVIGXOX, 29 May, 1865.

With regard to the Reader, I like the plan of full signa-
tures. . . . But, to admit of this it would |be necessary for the
Reader to give up the plan it has recently adopted of making
slashing attacks to right and left, with very insufficient produc-
tion of evidence to justify the vituperation ; and in a manner
which gives to an indifferent spectator the impression either of
personal ill-will in the particular case, or of general flippancy
and dogmatism. Contributors will not like to identify them-
selves by name with a publication which would embroil them
with an unlimited number of angry and vindictive writers,
together with their friends arid their publishers. I myself
should not like to be supposed to be in any way connected, for
instance, writh the attack on the Edinburgh Review (for which I
am at this very time preparing an article) an attack of which I
totally dislike the tone, and agree only partially with the sub-

stance : and it happens that the article singled out from the
last number for special contempt, my name, too, being cited
                         by personal friend of my own, man of very
against   it,                                                                   a
              is                                                                              a
                          a
                                 it I

                                 is is I
considerable merit, whom was desirous of securing as recruit

for the Reader, and who very naturally hurt and indignant at
                                        am by no means against severity in
the treatment of him.                     severe, the more needs to be well

criticism, but the more                                        it

weighed and justly distributed.

It        was now some years since Spencer had written an

article of any magnitude or importance for the larger                           a
Reviews. The reason for breaking his rule in 1865 given                                  is
in the following correspondence, which, apart from its

bearing on the questions discussed, has value as revelation

of the generous catholicity of the writers.

                         FROM S. MILL.
                                          J.

                                                                         is
                                                                                      a
                                          BLACKHEATH, 11 March, 1865.

Dr. Chapman will send you in the course of day or two
copy of an article of mine on Comte, which to be published
a

      I

                      a
in the forthcoming Westminster. In forming an estimate of
him, have necessarily come into collision with some of your
                         thing for which should never think of apologizing
opinions                                I

                                                     ;

                                                           it
to you or any advanced thinker but has so happened that
though our points of agreement very greatly exceed in number

and importance those of difference, the latter are those respect-
ing which, accidentally, most has been said to the public, on
my side at least. What have now written, however, will
     a                                                                          raises any idea

                                 I

                                                                 if
                                                                            it
give very false impression of my feelings,
1862-67]                   Biology                                         119

but that of minor differences of opinion between allies and
fellow-combatants. In a larger volume which I shall soon
have the pleasure of offering to you, there will be little or
nothing to qualify the expression of the very high value I
attach to your philosophic labours.

                           To J. S. MILL.                13 March, 1865.

   I am greatly obliged to you for your note of the llth ;
and appreciate the kind feeling which dictated it.
   I thoroughly sympathize with your view respecting the
candid expression of differences of opinion. My own practice

has always been that of pointing out what appears to me

erroneous, quite irrespective of any personal considerations ;

and I am quite prepared to have the opinions I express treated
by other thinkers with a like individual regard for the interests
of truth. Moreover, I am fully convinced that what you may
think it needful to say, in opposition to anything that I have
said, must always be something wrhich it is well to have said :
either as an indication of a mistake, or else as the indication of

some imperfection in the argument or some fault of exposition
which needs rectifying.

     On receipt of the promised copy of Mr. Mill's Examina-
tion of Sir William Hamilton's Philosophy Spencer deemed
it necessary to deal with the question at issue between them,
namely, the ultimate test of truth. This was done in the

Fortnightly Review for July.

                           FROM J. S. MILL.              12 August, 1865.

     When I received your article in the Fortnightly Review,
the reprint of my book on Hamilton was too far advanced to

admit of my correcting at the proper place the misconception
which you pointed out in p. 536 of the Review. I consequently
added a note at the end of the volume, of which, in case you

have not seen              enclose transcript.
   I                       a                    1
                   I iIt,     a
   do not find that the distinction between the two senses ofis

the word inconceivable, removes or diminishes the difference

between us.              was already aware that the inconceivability

which you regard as an ultimate test,                    the impossibility of
uniting two ideas in the same mental representation. But
unless have still further misunderstood you, you regard this
   I

incapacity of the conceptive faculty merely as the strongest

proof that can be given of necessity of belief. Your test of

1  Essays, ii., 195. Mill's Examination, p. 175, note third edition.
                                                         t,
I2O                 Life of Herbert Spencer                                                     [CHAP. x.

an ultimate truth I still apprehend to be, the invariability of

the belief of tested by an attempt to believe its negative.
   I

                       it,

                            I

                                                             a
                                                                                     a
                                                                                            is
     have, in my turn, to correct partial misunderstanding of
                    did not assert that belief                                                  proved not
my own meaning.
to be necessary by the fact that some persons deny its necessity,
but by the fact that some persons do not hold the belief itself
which opinion seems as evident as the other would be absurd.
                                                                                                if
                                                                                                            ;
   On the main question between us, your chief point seems
to be that the Idealist argument       reduced to nonsense we
                                       is
                                                it
accept the Idealist conclusions, since              cannot be expressed

without assuming an objective reality producing, and an objec-
tive reality receiving, the impression. The experience to which

our states of mind are referred        is,  ex m termini (you think),

experience of something other than states of mind. This would
be true all states of mind were referred to something anterior
   I                                                                                            :
       if
but the ultimate elements in the analysis hold to be themselvesif
states of mind, viz., sensations, memories of sensation, and ex-it
                                 do not pretend to account for these,is ; I I
pectations of sensation.      I                           is

or to recognize anything in them beyond themselves and the

order of their occurrence but do profess to analyze our other
                          I         I
                              ;
states of consciousness into them. Now maintain that these

are the only substratum need postulate and that when any-
thing else seems to be postulated,
                                                    only because of the
erroneous theory on which all our language constructed, and
that, the concrete words used are interpreted as meaning

our expectations of sensations, the nonsense and unmeaningness
which you speak of do not arise.
                 agree with
"         quite  rather than  you, however,     that our difference                             it is
   superficial                substantial," or  at all events need not

and does not affect our general mode of explaining mental
phenomena. From the first have wished to keep the peace
                                 a

                                    I
with those whose belief in substratum               simply the belief in
an Unknowable. You have said what you deemed necessaryis
to set yourself right on the points which had been in controversy
                                                   if
                                                      I
between us.      I  am glad you have clone so, and am now disposed

to let the matter rest. There will probably be other and more
                                                              should think
hostile criticisms, by Mansel or others, and

desirable to reply to them, could on the same occasion make
some remarks on yours, without the appearance of antagonismI
which am anxious to avoid.      J.
   I
                                  To S. MILL.I

                                                   ARDTORXISH, 21 August, 1865.
        am much obliged by your courtesy in sending me a copy
of the note to the new edition of your work on Hamilton. . . .
Thank you very much for the very candid explanation which

the note contains. It sets the matter quite straight.
1862-67]                    Biology                                              121

     The partial misstatement of your own view which you point
out I will endeavour to set right should there occur (or rather
as soon as there occurs) an opportunity for doing so.

     I am much gratified to find that the discussion has been
thus far carried on, and, indeed, for the present concluded,
without having produced anything beyond intellectual differ-

ence.

LONDON, 1 1 October. Many thanks for the copy of the sixth
edition of your Logic, which you have been so kind as to send
me. I shall have to study it afresh before preparing the second
edition of my Psychology, should I ever get so far ; and I am
very glad to have, thus brought up to date, the latest develop-
ments of your views on the many important questions dealt
with.
I have of course already read the chapter in which you

discuss the chief questions at issue between us ; and am obliged
to you for the care you have so promptly taken to restate my
position as recently explained afresh. Without entering upon
any of the chief points of the argument as it now stands, I will

just refer to the fact that on one of the issues the question is

greatly narrowed coming, as it does, to a direct opposition
                                                                         my own. You
between  t"heWvheerndictMs r.ofSpyeonucr erconssacyisousthnaetss    and  looking at the
remark                                                            while

sun, a man cannot conceive that he is looking into darkness,
he means, a man cannot believe that he is doing so. For he

is aware that it is possible, in broad daylight, to imagine oneself
looking into darkness." To these interpretations of my meaning
I demur ; I do
words u cannot  really, in  "thtios  case as in other cases, mean the
                conceive             be used in their rigorous sense.
The verdict of consciousness, as it seems to me (and I find it
the same with three competent friends to whom I have put
the question), is that when looking at the sun I not only cannot
imagine that I am then and there looking into darkness (and this
is the point at issue), but I cannot even imagine darkness at all.
The attempt to imagine myself looking into darkness, I find can
be carried to the extent of imagining some other scene in which
I have before experienced darkness ; but while I can imagine
the various elements of the scene which accompany the dark-
ness, I cannot imagine the darkness itself. I can bring into
consciousness all those impressions along with which I have
experienced the darkness of a cellar, but I cannot bring with
them the impression of darkness itself, while my consciousness is
occupied with the vivid impression of light. Even did I find that
I can, under such conditions, imagine darkness in the abstract,
this would not be equivalent to finding that I can, under such
conditions, think, or conceive, or imagine, that I am actually
at the moment, looking into darkness ; and. this, I take
real point.                                                              it,     the
                                                                             is
122            Life of Herbert Spencer      [CHAP. x.

                         FROM J. S. MILL.

                                  AVIGNON, 29 October, 1865.

I have kept your letter by me unanswered, partly for want
of time, and partly in hopes that the delay might enable some-
thing to occur to me which would throw light on the rather
subtle matter of difference between us which you bring to my
notice. It is evident that I have again a misapprehension of
your opinion to confess and correct, since -you do not acknow-
ledge it as yours in the mode in which it is stated by me.
We seem to differ on two questions, one a question of fact,
viz., whether it is possible, while looking at the sun, to
imagine darkness. You, and your three friends, think it is
not, while my conciousness seems to tell me that it is quite
as possible to imagine darkness in its absence, as anything
else in its absence. Of course, the stronger present impres-

sion of an actual sensation makes the simultaneous conscious-

ness of a mere recollection seem feeble by comparison. But

it appears to me perfectly real, and as like the impression
of sense which it corresponds to as most reminiscences are
to their originals. But, you say, even if I could, under such
conditions, imagine darkness, it would not follow that I could
imagine that I am actually at the moment looking into darkness.
To me it seems that to imagine an object of light is always
to imagine myself actually at the moment seeing it. I think

one never imagines anything otherwise than as an immediate

and present impression of one's own. Indeed, when the

object to be conceived is darkness, there is absolutely nothing
else to imagine than oneself trying to see and not seeing ;
for darkness is not a positive thing. It seems to me, then,
that I can, in broad daylight, conceive myself then and there
Itslohaoamatkmeinthgttihhsienicnnght,oaanangsddeawrtokhhfneaerttsehsey. looeuoxIkpsimrnegetshsaiinsoinntbothyteodtahtrhsekaenmwefeosorsrmdt?hs"i/ng"a,mcIto, nojsrcutesriitnvkeoemts attrhmhkaeest

the transition from conception to belief from an imagination

of something thought as absent from the senses, to an appre-
hension of something which is thought to be present to the
senses ; of which two states of mind I hold the former to be,

in the assumed circumstances, possible, the latter impossible.

It was in this way I was led to think that you were here
using the word conception in the sense of belief. Even now,

I cannot see how the phrase, to conceive that I am, or that
               can be consistent with using the word conceive
anything  is,

in its rigorous sense.

   These  letters bring  out (as   clearly  opf edrhifafeprsenacseth"e   subject
permits)  " the rather-  subtle   matter                                between

Mr. Mill and Spencer concerning the ultimate test of truth.
THE SHAPES OF LEAVES.               145

differentiated in proportion as their relations to incident
forces become different. And here, as before, we see that in
each unit, considered by itself, the differences of dimension
are greatest in those directions in which the parts are most
differently conditioned ; while there are no differences be-
tween the dimensions of parts that are not differently

conditioned.*

I* It was by an observation on the forms of leaves, that was first led to'the

views set forth in the preceding and succeeding chapters on the morphological

differentiation of plants and animals. In the year 1851, during a country

ramble in which the structures of plants had been a topic of conversation, with a
Ifriend Mr Q. H. Lewes
                                happened to pick up the leaf of a buttercup, and

drawing it by its foot-stalk through my fingers so as to thrust together its deeply-

cleft divisions, observed that its palmate and almost radial form was changed

into a bilateral one ; and that were the divisions to grow together in this new

position, an ordinary bilateral leaf would result. Joining this observation with

the familiar fact that leaves, in common with the larger members of plants

habitually turn themselves to the light, it occurred to me that a natural change

Iin the circumstances of the leaf might readily cause such a modification of form as

that which had produced artificially. If, as they often do with planes, coil

and climate were greatly to change the habit of the buttercup, making it
branched and shrub-like ; and if these palmate leaves were thus much over-

shadowed by each other; would not the inner segments of the leaves grow

towards the periphery of the plant where the light was greatest, and so change

Ithe palmate form into a more decidedly bilateral form? Immediately began to

look round for evidence of the relation between the forma of leaves and general

characters of the plants they belonged to ; and soon found some signs of con-

nexion. Certain anomalies, or seeming anomalies, however, prevented me from

then pursuing the inquiry much further. But consideration cleared np these

difficulties; and the idea afterwards widened into the general doctrine here

elaborated. Occupation with other things prevented roe from giving expression

Ito this general doctrine until Jan. 1869 ; when published an outline of it in

the Medfci-Chiruryieol Review.
               i

                                10

(Facsimile proof page from "The Principles of Biology").
1862-67]                   Biology                                                                                                                   123

The microscopic investigations undertaken while dealing

with morphology and physiology had opened up an interest-

ing enquiry regarding circulation in plants and the forma-

tion of wood, his earlier preparations being shown to Dr.

"HoMooksetr,   Professor   Huxley, and Dr. Busk in January, 1865.
              naturalists  will regard it as an audacious specula-

tion," he tells Dr. Youmans, "but as Hooker and Huxley

are inclined to endorse my reasonings, I feel at ease on the

matter."

The usual respite was taken after the issue of his serial

in June, 1865. During his stay at Ardtornish this year he

mentions having    cHaueghetxpeactseadlm"onto  of  9^  Ibs. the largest he
had ever yet got.                              be
                                                   in  first-rate condition "

by the time he left.

                           To HIS FATHER.

                                                             LONDON, 3 October, 1865.
     I am getting on satisfactorily with my work and expect to
send you some proofs in less than a fortnight. The theory of
the vertebrate skeleton works out far more completely than
I had expected.

...II December. Meanwhile I am busy with No. 16 ;                                                                                                    By
the 20th I hope to get ready as much MS. as will give me
something to do in revising while I am down at Derby. If
nothing intervenes I propose to come down to you about the
21st, and stay with you till the end of the month ; after which,
if you feel equal to you had better come and spend week
with me in town.           I it,
                                                        I

                                                             I

                                                                                                 a
                           am glad to gather that my mother has
borne up so well during your late attack.
                                                       hope she continues

to do so. Give my love to her and say shall see her shortly.

     During the few days at home he carried on his micro-
scopic study of the circulating system of plants, returning
to town in time for the usual New Year's dinner at the

Huxley's, to which he refers when writing to his father.

                                 To HIS FATHER.

                                                                       January, 1866.
     Our evening was very pleasant one. Among other guests
was Mr. Ellis, an ardent educationist, who has done great
service in popularizing Political Economy for schools. . .

        am busy while dictate in re-examining my preparations,
which, while was at Derby, had only so far examined as
I
                I

                           Ia
                                            I

                                                                                        3

                                                                                                                                                  .
124                        Life of Herbert Spencer  [CHAP. x.

to see that they were worth preserving. I find they now
furnish me with far more beautiful cases than I had before
perceived. While I was travelling up I hit upon the idea
needful for the complete interpretation of plant circulation.
I have the whole thing now as satisfactorily demonstrable
as can well be imagined.

     15 January. Since I wrote last I have been showing my
preparations to Hooker, Busk and Huxley. The results turn
out to be new. These structures in certain classes of leaves
were unknown to them all ; and they could find no descriptions
of them, and they recognize their significance. It turns out,

too, that though there have been experiments on the absorp-
tion of dyes, they have been limited to the cases of stems, in
which the results are, when taken by themselves, confusing and
indeed misleading. They were all of them taken aback by the

results I have shown them ; which are so completely at variance
with the doctrines that have been of late years current ; and
they have nothing to say against the hypothesis, based on these
facts which I have propounded to them. It is proposed that
I should put the facts and arguments in the shape of a
paper for the Linnaean Society ; and it is probable that I shall
do so, eventually including it in the appendix to the Biology.

the 2"4LiJnannausaarny.".  I am half through, or more, with my paper for
                           The argument works out very satisfactorily.

    30 January. I am using as a dye, infusion of logwood, which
I find answers in some respects much better than magenta.
I shall be able, I think, very completely to demonstrate my
proposition. I am getting much more skilled in making pre-
parations, and have hit on a way of doing them with readiness
and efficiency. On Sunday I discovered some spiral and
annular structures of marvellous size four or five times the
diameter of any that I have previously found, or seen figured.
They exist in the aberrant leaf of an aberrant plant, which I

daresay has never been before examined.

     26 February. I should have written before, but I have
been so very busy preparing specimens, making drawings, and
revising my paper for the Linnaean Society. It is announced
for Thursday next.

     The paper was read on ist March. Further examina-ii.
tions and experiments in revising it for inclusion in the

Transactions of the Society occupied him during the month.

After a visit to his parents at Easter he set to work on the
fourth number of vol. of the Biology, which was issued
1862-67]  Biology                                     125

in June. Of this number Mr. Darwin wrote to Dr.
Hooker :

    " It is wonderfully clever and I daresay mostly true. . . .

If he had trained himself to observe more, even at the

expense, by the law of balancement, of some loss of think-

ing power, he would have been a wonderful man." x On his

return to London in September, he took up his abode at

37, Queen's Gardens, Bayswater, which was to be his home
for many years. Here he set to work, amid many inter-

ruptions, to complete the volume, three numbers of which

still remained to be brought out. Towards the close of
"IFebruary, 1867, he was able to tell Dr. Youmans :
                                                      am

in the middle of the last chapter but one of the Biology ; and

make sure of getting the volume out before the end of

March, if no unforeseen hindrance occurs. It will be a

cause of great rejoicing with me to have got through so

trying a part of my undertaking."

          1 Life and Letters oj C. Darwin, iii., 55.
         126

              CHAPTER XI.

         SUNSHINE AND SHADOW.
           (December, 1865 July, 1867.)

    THE number of the Biology issued in December, 1865,

contained a notice to the effect that on completion of the
volume the series would cease. The circumstances that led

to this decision, and the efforts made to prevent its being
carried out, are narrated in the Autobiography (ii., 132, 491).

One of the first to interest himself was Mr. J. S. Mill.

         To HIS FATHER.

                                         15 February, 1866.

I enclose you a very gratifying letter which I received from
         Mill some ten days ago. It shows      great generosity. I
John     however, declined both the offers it  makes. As you will

have,
see, he clearly does not understand the nature of the loss which
led me to issue the notice he thinks that it is nothing more
than the difference between the receipts from the subscribers
and the cost of printing ; and that were the bare expenses of
publication met I should have no difficulty in going on. I have
explained to him how the matter stands.
Williams and Norgate hinted to me the other day that there
was a movement in progress to do something that would meet
the case in a way that I could agree to. I learn also that
John Mill has called upon them since he got my reply to his
letter.

                               To E. L. YOUMANS.
                                                                        2 March, 1866.

     Count Limburg Stirum . . . one of Comte's executors, has
written to Lewes, sending through him to me a draft for 10
towards a publication fund, and proposing to form a committee
for the furtherance of the matter, and wishes that the Fort-
nightly Review should make itself the organ for carrying out

         NOTE. Autobiography, ii., chaps, xlii., xliii., xliv.
1865-67]  Sunshine and Shadow         127

such a plan. Of course, in pursuance of the attitude I have
taken up, I returned him the draft, explaining how matters
stood.

    A proposal that came from some of his friends that those
interested " should subscribe for a sufficient number of

copies to secure the author from loss," was not so easily
disposed of.

                                  To T. H. HUXLEY.
                                                                        11 April, 1866.

     My reflections over the matter of our talk the other night
have ended in a qualified agreement to the arrangements an
agreement under conditions.

      In the first place, as to the number of copies to be taken.
This is too great. I do not know how 250 was fixed upon. . . .
Thus, then, I conclude that an extra circulation here of 150
will suffice, joined with what I may otherwise fairly count
upon. And to this number, I should wish that the additional
copies taken may be limited.

     In the second place, as you say that the wishes to further
the continuance of the work have, in the main, acted spon-
taneously, I will yield to your argument that the acts are in
a sense public ones, with which I am not personally con-
cerned but with one reservation. I can take this view of the
matter only in those cases where the sacrifices involved are
not likely to be seriously felt. Those to whom guineas come
in some abundance may be allowed to spend them in this way ;
but those who have to work hard for them, and have already
heavy burdens to bear, cannot be allowed to do so. Having
granted your premises, my exception to your conclusion may
be quite illogical ; but I must, nevertheless, make it. No
re-assertion of the position that the act is public and the motive
impersonal would suffice to get rid of what would be to me
an intolerable consciousness, were any save those who are quite
at their ease to join in these transactions.

     Subsequently he withdrew this conditional acquiescence
for the reason given in a letter to Professor Huxley, written
from Derby in May, about three weeks after the death of
his father. 1

     Not less eager were his friends in the United States

to avert, if possible, the threatened calamity. On learning
the facts towards the end of 1865, Dr. Youmans

          1 Autobiography, ii., 491.
128               Life of Herbert Spencer                                                                        [CHAP. XL

had remarked : " You will not object to my using them

here in any way that seems desirable." Had Spencer known

what his friend thought of doing, he would certainly have

taken measures to prevent it. No one knew this better than
Dr. Youmans. " Of course it won't do to let Spencer know

what is going on at all. He would spoil sure as fate."
                                                                                                      It
By the    middle of June,  7,000 dollars had been collected.
" So the  Spencer affair   finished, all but the most trouble-                                              it,
aA
some part," he told his sister anticipating difficulty in
                 1
persuading Spencer to accept the gift.                                                                had not all been
           it
                ifsmooth sailing. Besides having to rouse the enthusiasm

of disciples, he had to counteract the effects of adverse criti-a
                                  acism, which " embargoes Liberal
                                                  'to raise money out of the world,                   Christianity' and leaves us
                                            ' is                                                      the flesh, and the devil.' "

                                            itcriticism intheChristian Examiner (March, 1866) was
                                                                                                   ;described as "theablest thing yet against Spencer," and for

time he feared the effect might have on his appeal.

As the bearer of the letter from Mr. R. B. Minturn,

announcing the handsome testimonial, Dr. Youmans came

to London. Writing to'his sister, he describes the astonish-

ment and pleasure with which Spencer read Mr. Minturn's

letter.   Other letters of sympathy and encouragement

accompanied this token of America's good will.

                  FROM WILLIAM R. ALGER.

                                                                                                      18 June, 1866.

We do this in pure spirit of loyalty to truth and humanity,
without the slightest egotistical thought of ourselves or of you.
We do as simple act of justice. We shall be deeply dis-

appointed you do not rise above every disagreeable personal
feeling, and accept this offering in the spirit in which
                                                                                                                 it                  made,

                                                                                                                      is

in the service of science and society.

                         FROM HENRY WARD BEECH ER.

                                                                                              June^ 1866.

     The peculiar condition of American society has made your
writings far more fruitful and quickening here than in Europe.
We are conscious of great obligations to you, and perplexed
because we cannot acknowledge them as we could were we
your fellow citizens.

     But we cannot consent to lie under such obligations with-

     Autobiography, ii., 140. Edivj-rd Livingston Youmans,
1                                                                                                                                    213.
                                                                                                                                 p.
1865-67]    Sunshine and Shadow                  129

out some testimonial of our feelings respecting your eminent
service to us, and to the cause of the emancipation and enlight-
enment of the human mind, so dear to us all.

     And we are sure that you will not allow any scruples of

personal delicacy to make you unjust to us, or to compel us to
forbear the only action which is possible to us at this distance,
and in our circumstances.

In the last, or one of the last, of his letters to his father

(March 27) he enclosed a letter from St. Petersburg, "which
will give you an agreeable surprise, as it did me." The

agreeable surprise was a request for permission to translate
his books into Russian. " The Classification of the Sciences,"

was the first to appear. To meet his objection to this being

selected to start with, he was informed that books discussing

religion or politics would not be tolerated by the authorities.

The "Classification" passed successfully; but a  translation
of the Essays was seized, owing to the essay on  " Manners

and Fashion," which was supposed to call in question the

validity and eternity of the monarchical principle and of

divine right ! For attempting to publish it the translator had

rendered himself liable to prosecution for a criminal offence,

the penalty for which varied from six years penal servitude

to eight months imprisonment in a fortress. The translator

requested Spencer to be in readiness to insert a paragraph

in the Times, in the event of an adverse verdict. It was not

till March of the following year that Spencer learnt that the

charge had been withdrawn "s'est termini parfaitement a

la russe."

A French translation of First Principles was being made

by Dr. E. Gazelles, who was strongly recommended by Mr.

J. S. Mill. Writing to his father in October, 1865, Spencer
had enclosed a letter from M. Renan informing him that the

book was likely to. be translated. On hearing from Dr.

Gazelles, towards the end of the following year, that half of it
had already been translated, Spencer urged him to wait for

the second edition before proceeding further.

Of his other doings during the second half of 1866 little

is known. When narrating the occurrences of this time,

he admitted that his memory was not very clear. He

missed the letters to and from his father, which hitherto
i' 3d        Life of Herbert Spencer                         [CHAP. xi.

had served as milestones and sign-posts by which to follow

the course of events. That his memory should have failed

him is not surprising. The shock of his father's death,

anxiety about his mother, depression consequent on the

contemplated discontinuance of the System of Philosophy,

and the unexpected manner in which that trouble had been

removed, all these tended to prevent the course of things

leaving a permanent impression. Before going to the meet-
ing of the British Association, at Nottingham, Dr. Youmans

and he spent a few days at Aberdovey, in Merionethshire.

While there the article in the Christian Examiner by Mr.

F. E. Abbot was discussed with a view to a reply Dr.

Youmans intended to publish on his return to New York.
"We are taking it up point by point," Dr. Youmans tells
             " Spencer talks, and I am amanuensis. . . .
his sister.

I have myself learned some matters and things worth know-

ing. Spencer doesn't recede or budge a hair, but he
interprets." l

At Aberdovey, and afterwards in London, there were

frequent talks about a lecture which Dr. Youmans was

to deliver at the College of Preceptors on the "Scientific

Study of Human Nature." How he took the manuscript

to Spencer, and what Spencer thought of                a     are related

by Dr. Youmans (28 September)                :              it,

                                                                                 ?
       arranged to call to-day at eleven to read my production to
him. With my tail feathers spread and in state of infinite
I            went, and returned trailing my glories in the
               Icomplacency
                        I
infernal London mud. Poor man What could he do There
                                          !

was but one thing to do, and he did you had better believe.
                                                a it,
Faithful indeed are the cruelties of friend. My lecture was
fWtfaionihertalhytwesrialwatriuenrogghn"tg"earuemtdfhoa.orrrktiytei-etfsivhteha"idsptaosgtuiemHcshee. .rbne"ic"rYet oauSuplittehhtnaloecvreietrite.olsoostTmfohyureocuheprviegeprsfyofotihnrwtitnegnaa.ttt
                                             A

the fifth page and not recovered it. Why,              I     thought you

wished to make sharp presentation of science in its bearings
       a

                                  1

                           a
                                      it
upon the study of human nature, and you seem to have entered
upon systematic treatise on physiology interlarded with bad
psychology." The unfeeling wretch                      u Strike out half, put the
                                             !
                                                                  p.

                                                                                           2
rest in type and work up," was the final injunction.

               Edward Livingston You mans,             220.

             - Ibid., pp. 223 and 451.
1865-67]  Sunshine and Shadow                             131

"     In March, 1867,  Spencer took up what he calls      the
   agreeable task" of  reorganizing First Principles. As  the

earlier portions could be done out of London it occurred

to him to take a short holiday in Paris.

                               To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                                   3 May, 1867.

     I start for Paris on Sunday (very glad so to utilize that day) ;
and expect to remain away ten days or so taking a little work
with me to revise, but devoting myself mainly to sight-seeing.

     7 June. I went for a fortnight, and came back before the
week was out. Perpetual sight-seeing soon became a weari-
ness ; and I was heartily glad to get back.

     19 June. The second edition of First Principles is working
out very satisfactorily even more satisfactorily than I had
anticipated. In its reorganized form it will be extremely
coherent all through the thread of the argument will be
unbroken ; and it will, I think, have the obvious character
of completeness.

     The present seemed a favourable opportunity for intro-
ducing a distinctive general title for the series. In his
letter to Dr. Youmans of 7 June, he mentioned that the
evils arising from the want of such a title had just been
thrust upon him afresh by the new edition of Lewes's

History of Philosophy. "The Positive Philosophy will

continue to be understood as the philosophy of Comte,

and as I so distinctively repudiate the philosophy of Comte,
it is needful to take some step to prevent the confusion.

So long as there is no other title in use to express a

philosophy formed of organized scientific knowledge, one
cannot expect people to discriminate." Fearing that, in
giving his reasons for adopting the new title, he would
make it the occasion for emphasizing afresh his antagonism
to Comte, Dr. Youmans advised him to avoid the Comte

discussion in the preface to the revised edition. Before
the book was published in the autumn he had given up,
though with reluctance, the idea of using the new title.
" I discussed the matter with Huxley and Tynclall, and
though I do not think that the objections raised were
such as to outweigh the manifest advantages, still there
doubtless are objections ; and in the midst of conflicting
132  Life of Herbert Spencer  [CHAP. xi.

considerations I eventually became so far undecided as to

let the matter stand as it was."

     In the midst of the anxieties arising from the prospect
of having to relinquish his work, there came in April, 1866,
the shock of his father's sudden illness and death. What

this signified to him can be understood only by one who

has, like the present writer, read the correspondence
between father and son, carried on for three and thirty

years. It must have seemed to Spencer a cruel fate that
the premature abandonment of the System of Philosophy

should so nearly coincide with the loss of one who had

watched over its inception and been consulted in every

detail. Although not indebted to his father for the leading
doctrines of evolution, he was largely his debtor for the
intellectual discipline which had made it possible to plan

and so far elaborate his scheme, as well as for literary and

expository criticism step by step as each chapter passed
through the press. In the soundness of his father's critical
judgment, he retained to the last the greatest confidence.

     Hardly had he recovered from the shock of his father's
death when he had to face the loss of his patient and gentle
mother, who died in May, 1867. This event, although it
did not come upon him, like the death of his father, with

little warning, and although it did not mean the ending
of an intellectual companionship which had been for so

many years a precious possession, appealed nevertheless
in a special manner to the emotional side of his nature.
He knew that his mother had little sympathy with his
intellectual pursuits, but he also knew that his welfare and

happiness ever held a chief place in her thoughts, and that
no sacrifice on her part would have been grudged, if by
it she could have promoted his interests. The death of his

father deprived him of one with whom he had walked in
the closest communion of thought since boyhood ; by
the death of his mother he was bereft of one in whom

he saw embodied in no small measure those feminine affec-

tions for which, as he repeatedly tells us, his nature craved.
     For years the health of his parents had been a source

of increasing anxiety. As for his mother, he had long
given up the hope of arresting, even if only for a time, the
downward progress towards confirmed invalidism. Unlike
1865-67]          Sunshine and Shadow                133

his father, whose chronic nervousness tended to aggravate
his disorders, his mother paid too little attention to pre-
monitory symptoms, and neglected ordinary precautions.
With his father, his endeavour generally was to convince
him that he was not so ill as he thought he was ; with his
mother his aim was to get her to realise that she was
worse than she thought she was. The ups and downs
of his father's health had their sources in the condition

of the nervous system which led to acts of imprudence
when he was well, and to undue depression when he was
ill. His mother's permanent ill-health was due to over-
drafts on a system of low vitality. Her conservative
obstinacy was proof against advice and remonstrance. The
difficulty with his father was not occasioned by obstinate

adherence to an adopted course of living, but to ever-
changing views regarding his numerous ailments, and
endless experimentation in the matter of diet, clothing,
and therapeutics. Concern for his father, keen while it

lasted, had months of respite, during which he felt at ease,

provided that no unforeseen imprudence was committed.
But as regards his mother his anxiety had never been
relieved by periods of hopefulness or satisfaction.

     These remarks have been suggested by reperusal of his
letters home during the last eight or ten years of his parents'
lives : letters full of advice, expostulation, and entreaty.
Here are a few characteristic extracts mostly to his

father.

     It would almost seem as though you acted upon the maxim
'' Of two evils choose the greater."
...I think you are wrong in taking such liberties with yourself
as you describe.  I wish you would be less particular about

small risks and more particular about great ones.
All the reasons you name for not coining are so many reasons
for coining. You are evidently nervous, and as usually happens
with you in such condition, make mountains out of mole-hills.
The various things which you say you want to settle, leave
unsettled ; and settle them on your return. In your present
state, you are not a fit judge of what is best for you. Therefore,
do just what I tell you. Pack up your carpet-bag and write
me word by return of post at what hour on Sunday or Monday
I shall meet you at King's Cross or Euston Station.
It is useful in this life to tolerate annoyances, and to think as
134         Life of Herbert Spencer  [CHAP. xi.

...little about them as possible. Everyone has lots of things to
worry him.  In respect to present arrangements of the
household, we must be content if matters can be made to go
with some approach to regularity and smoothness. It is out of

the question under such circumstances to avoid small evils.

    You did not tell me when I asked you some time since how
you were going on in respect of money. Pray do not borrow
from anyone, but let me know if you fall short.

     I think you had better give up your lessons. It will be very
bad policy to make yourself ill over them. You must do as
much teaching as will amuse you, but no more.

     If (this to his mother) I thought it would be any good
I would say a good deal in the way of exhortation that you

should take care of yourself. But you are so incorrigible in
the matter, that I expect you will do much the same whether
I expostulate or not. I fear that nothing I can say will h ive
any effect. I can only hope that you will behave better in
this respect when I am absent than you do when I am present.

     I hope (he writes to his father) you will insist on her not
exerting herself by making the needless journeyings into the
town which she does. They ought not to be allowed, whatever
may be the reasons she assigns ; for she will make any reason

a sufficient one.

     I am sorry to hear that my mother is becoming still feebler,
and still persists in over-exerting herself. There is no remedy

but positive prevention using as much peremptoriness as may be
needful.

    You must do what you can to prevent her from fidgeting

herself, and make her feel that it is better to let tilings go a little

wrong, rather than make herself worse by trying to keep them
right.

    Your accounts of my mother are depressing ; but I fear it

is needful to reconcile ourselves to them, and to the expectation

of such symptoms becoming more decided. You are doubtless
right in thinking it may be needful to have more assistance.
Pray do so whenever it seems requisite ; do nor let expense be

a consideration.

     It is sad to hear the accounts of my mother, though what
you tell me is not more than \vhat was to be expected. We

may, however, be glad she is free from pain and is usually in

pretty good spirits. This is as much mitigation as can well be
looked for. . . . Give my love to my mother, and you may add
that she will probably see me shortly.

     The following appears to be the last letter received from
home.
1865-67]  Sunshine and Shadow  135

                                      FROM HIS FATHER.

                                                                         9 April, 1866.
     \Yith regard to myself I am mending but slowly, if any.
I seem to tire sooner, but so long as it does not get like the
other attack, I shall do. I liked your proofs very much and hope
my memoranda may not annoy you. When shall I be favoured
with the next ? . . . Your mother wonders from day to day
that you don't come to see her. [He had just been to see
her, but her memory was gone.] My back aches, so excuse
more.

     It has been the fashion to speak of Spencer's character
as if it were all intellect and no feeling. The falsity of

such an opinion was, however, well known to his friends.

No one who knew him at all doubted his absolute sincerity

when giving expression to his feelings ; but even those who

knew him intimately were apt to underestimate their inten-

sity. Of the purity and depth of his affection for his

parents, his letters, written during a period of more than

thirty years, furnish a testimony that is conclusive. Some

might think these letters lacking in gushing terms of endear-

ment. But it is unsafe to draw conclusions as to the

strength or the weakness of the emotions from the language

employed to express them, unless account be taken of the

character of the writer. In Spencer's case it would be a

mistake to conclude that his feelings were of a low degree of

intensity because he gave expression to them in subdued

terms. Some people unintentionally use the strongest

terms in the language to express the most ordinary degrees

of emotion. Others deliberately try to conceal the shallow-

ness of their feelings in a turbulent torrent of superlative

words. Spencer's dislike to exaggeration led him, of two

or more ways of expressing his feelings, to choose the

least highly coloured. Add to this his singular sincerity,

which would not brook the use of language to conceal

or miscolour his sentiments. And after all, mere emo-

tional display of interest in the welfare of others is a

form of sympathy which costs the giver as little as

it benefits the receiver.  In reading the letters to his

parents, in which he enters into the minutest details

regarding bodily ailments, or family misunderstandings,

or business misfortunes, or mental distress, one cannot
136  Life of Herbert Spencer  [CHAP. xi.

help thinking how much easier it would have been to have
contented himself with offering the usual sympathetic
platitudes. Time and trouble spent in trying to put right
what he considered wrong were never grudged ; no detail
was too wearisome. If the emotional manifestations of

sympathy were more subdued than usual, the rational
considerations involved were dwelt upon with a minute-

ness and care rarely met with. Writing home was never
a perfunctory duty coming round at stated intervals. The
most remarkable feature of the correspondence is the
revelation it affords of the closeness of the communion
of thought and feeling between him and his father. With

a qualification this holds true as regards his mother also.
For, though aware that she took little interest in his
writings, he kept nothing back from her. His almost

invariable custom was to send home all letters he received,

whether relating to his writings, to his plans and prospects,
or to his social engagements. In this way his father and
mother were kept informed of every detail of his life.
This openness on his part was reciprocated by a like open-
ness on theirs. Rare indeed are the instances in which

father and son have laid bare their minds so freely to one
another. Rarer still are the instances in which father and

son have for over thirty years carried on their corres-

pondence on such a high level of thought and sentiment.
Fortunate it has been for the writer of these memoirs that

the son was so unsparing with his letters, and the father

so careful in preserving them. They have been the main
sources of information down to this time.
                           137

                   CHAPTER XII.

PSYCHOLOGY AND DESCRIPTIVE SOCIOLOGY.

(July, 1867 October, 1872.)

    THE holiday of 1867 embraced Yarrow, Glenelg, Ardtor-
nish, Scarborough, Stourbridge, and Standish, followed by

a walking tour in Surrey with Mr. Lewes, in the course

of which, passing through Wey bridge, he introduced his

companion to the family of Mr. Cross, afterwards to become
the husband and biographer of George Eliot. His own

acquaintance with Mr. Cross dated from 1858.
     Views expressed in Social Statics had led him to be

looked upon as a supporter of the admission of women

to the suffrage. Hence a request from Mr. J. S. Mill in
August to join a society about to be formed to promote that

object. Some two months before this Miss Helen Taylor

had requested permission    to include, in a  series   of      p"apTehres
she was bringing out, the  chapter in Social  Statics  on

Rights of Women."

                   To J. S. MILL.             28 May, 1867.

You will, I am sure, understand that in the course of the

seventeen years that have elapsed since Social Statics was
written my thoughts on various of the matters it deals with
have assumed a more complete form ; and you will, I doubt

not, sympathize in my reluctance to have reproduced in their
...original shape, any of them which I should now present in
a better shape. At the same time,             I cannot, without
too much deranging my plans, undertake to re-write the parts
with which I am dissatisfied.

     Had he been more explicit in the above letter it would
have been known how far he had receded from the position
held when Social Statics was written, and Mr. Mill would

NOTE. Autobiography, ii., chaps, xlv., xlvi., xlvii., xlviii.
138 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xn.

have understood that it was futile to ask him to join the
proposed society. He had now to make his position clear.

                                  To J. S. MILL.

                                                              YARROW, 9 August, 1867.

    Your note has reached me here, where I have been spending
a few days with Prof. Masson on my way north.

     Probably you will remember that in a letter some time since,
written in reply to one of yours, I indicated that my views had
undergone some modification since the time when I wrote
Social Statics. The modification goes as far as this, that while
I should advocate the extension of the suffrage to women as
an ultimate measure, I do not approve of it as an immediate
measure, or even as a measure to be shortly taken. I hold,
as I doubt not you also hold, that political liberties or powers,
like that of voting, are simply means to an end. That end, you
would probably say, is the securing of the good of the indi-
viduals exercising such powers ; or otherwise, as I should say,
it is the securing the greatest amount of individual freedom of
action to them. The unhindered exercise of faculties by each,
limited only by the equal claims of others, is that which the
right of voting serves to obtain and to maintain. This is the
real liberty in comparison with which right of voting is but

a nominal liberty.
     The question with me then is : How may this substantial

liberty to pursue the objects of life with least possible restriction
be most extended ? And as related to the matter in hand the

question is : Will giving the suffrage to women, which is in itself

but a nominal extension of liberty, lead to a real extension of
liberty.

     I am decidedly of opinion that it will not. The giving of
political power to women would, I believe, restrict, and indeed
diminish, liberty in two ways. It would strengthen the hands
of authority, both political and ecclesiastical ; for women, as
a mass, are habitually on the side of authority. Further, it
would aid and stimulate all kinds of state administrations, the
great mass of which are necessarily antagonistic to personal
freedom. Men in their political actions are far too much swayed
by proximate evils and benefits ; and women would be thus
swayed far more. Given some kind of social suffering to be
cured -or some boon to be got, and only the quite exceptional
women would be able to appreciate detrimental reactions that
would be entailed by legislative action. Political foresight of
this kind, uncommon enough in men, is extremely rare in

women.
     Of course, whoever holds that the minds of men and women

are alike, will feel no difficulty of this kind. But I hold them
to be unlike, both quantitatively and qualitatively. I believe
1867-72]  Psychology and Sociology                 139

the difference to result from a physiological necessity, and that
no amount of culture can obliterate it. And I believe further
that the relative deficiency of the female mind is in just those
most complex faculties, intellectual and moral, which have
political action for their sphere.

     When the State shall have been restricted to what I hold
to be its true function when it has become practically im-
possible for it to exceed that function then it will be alike
proximately and remotely equitable that women should have
political power.

    To put the right construction on these reasonings of mine,
you must bear in mind that to me the limitation of the functions
of the State is the question of questions, in comparison with
which all other political questions are trivial ; and that to me

electoral changes and other changes in forms of government are
of interest mainly as they promise to make men freer, partly
by the removal of direct injustices, and partly by the removal
of those indirect injustices which all undue legislative action
involves.

     I greatly regret not to be able to coincide with you on this
matter ; and the more so because I recognize the nobility of
your motive, and, could I reconcile it with my conscience,
would fain follow your example.

    Two years later he had an opportunity still further to

explain his views-.

          To J. S. MILL.            9 June, 1869.

Thank you for the copy of your essay on The Subjection of
Women. . . .

     Meanwhile I will just remark that I think the whole ques-
tion, under its social and political aspects, is being discussed

too much upon the assumption that the relations among men

and women are determined only or mainly by law. I think
a very trenchant essay might be written on the Supremacy of
Women, showing that, in the present state of civilization, the
concessions voluntarily made by men to women in social

arrangements have become an organized set of laws, which go

far to counterbalance the laws that are legally enacted ; and
that throughout a large part of society the tyranny of the weak
is as formidable as the tyranny of the strong.

    Mr. Mill was in full agreement with Spencer in thinking
"that in a great many cases women tyrannize over men,"
and "that it is generally the best of men who get most
tyrannized over. But . . . two contradictory tyrannies do

not make liberty."
140 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xn.

     He returned to town in the beginning of October, eager
to commence the revision of the Principles, of Psychology,
about which he says in a memorandum :

Nominally, this was a second edition, but it was more nearly
to be regarded as a new work ; for besides the fact that sundry
of the parts were considerably further developed, there were
four divisions which did not exist in the work as originally
published. . . . This I had now to execute, and entered on the
task with considerable zest ; for I had much interest in what
I saw would be the working out of the harmony between
these further views and those previously enunciated.
     I had a further satisfaction in the preparation of an edition

more completely developing the general views which I hrst had

set forth, since there was now a widely different attitude in the
public mind in relation to this view from that which existed
when the hrst edition was published. In 1855, this view got
scarcely any attention, and what little it did get brought upon
me little else than vituperation. The tacit assumption, and
towards the close of the work the avowed belief, that all

organisms had arisen by evolution, and the consequent concep-
tion running throughout the whole work that the phenomena
of mind were to be interpreted in conformity with that hypo-

thesis necessarily, in 1855, roused not sympathy, but antipathy.

It was only after the publication of Mr. Darwin's Origin of
Species, some four years subsequently, and only after this work,
drawing so much attention causing so much controversy

began presently to affect deeply the beliefs of the scientific
world, that the views contained in the Principles of Psychology
came to be looked at more sympathetically. . . . Not, however,
that the book began at once to get that credit which had been
originally withheld ; for now, with this change in the current
of opinion, there came other books setting forth this advanced
view, and which, with the change of the times, were sympa-
thetically received. Especially was this so with the work of
Dr. Maudsley on the Physiology and Pathology of flic Miiuf,
which, proceeding throughout on the evolution view of mind,
and adopting the cardinal conception of the Principles of Psy-
chology, without at all indicating whence that conception was
derived, was reviewed with applause and had a great success.
In now returning to the Psychology', therefore, for the purpose
of further developing
I                                      had the consciousness that something
                                 iIt,
would be done towards rectifying the arrangement in which
had got all the kicks and others the halfpence.

     He was also looking ahead to the time when he would

enter upon the sociological portion of his scheme, for which
ample provision would have to be made. His changed
1867-72]         Psychology and Sociology                            141

circumstances, there being now no one dependent on him for

support, led him to take a step he had for some time deemed

desirable, namely, to get this preparatory work done by

deputy. He took counsel with Professor Masson, on whose

recommendation the present writer was engaged as sec-

retary. Simultaneously, therefore, with the commencement

of the Psychology he began to put into shape his idea of

"making tabulated arrangements of historical data, showing

the co-existence and succession of social phenomena of all

orders." For an hour or so before dinner he would listen

while    his   secretary, pencil in  hand, read from    books of
travel.    "  Mark that," he would   say when anything  pertinent

was met with. After familiarity with the work had in this

way been gained, the present writer was left largely to his

own discretion. One of the instructions was characteristic.

Impressed with the magnitude of the undertaking and the

time it would  o"ccIufpyy,ouhereuargd,edsahyi,s  secretary to avoid  reading
many books.                                      three trustworthy   authors

on any one tribe, that will be enough." This instruction

had tacitly to be disregarded. For, in addition to the con-
siderations that few travellers had the ability to note " social

phenomena of all orders," that many had no interest in

certain aspects of savage or semi-civilized societies, and that

others lacked opportunities for studying any but the most

superficial features of a community, there was the obvious

reflection that a traveller's trustworthiness could ordinarily

be ascertained only by the perusal of what he had written.

Spencer's own account of these preparatory occupations

is as follows :

     Some little time was passed in elaborating a method of
classification, for it did not prove easy to devise any method of
presenting all the phenomena of society in a form at once
natural and methodic. But eventually I pretty well satisfied
myself as to the system of arrangement, and by the time Mr.
Duncan had been familiarized, by reading aloud to me and
receiving the needful suggestions, with the nature of the work
to be done and the heads to be filled up, I finally decided
upon a form of table for the uncivilized races, and had it litho-
graphed in blank form with the headings of columns. All this
was done simply with the intention of having prepared for my
own use the required materials. . . . But when some of the
tables had been filled up and it became possible to appreciate
142           Life of Herbert Spencer            [CHAP. xn.

the effect of thus having presented at one view the whole of

the essential phenomena presented by each society, the fact
dawned upon me that the materials as prepared were of too
much value to let them lie idle after having been used by myself
only. I therefore decided upon publishing them for general
use. Thereafter Mr. Duncan did his work in the consciousness
that it would be not lost in the fulfilment of a private end
merely, but that he would have the credit derivable from it on
publication. And thus was initiated Descriptive Sociology.

With the year 1868 came an attack "of greater nervous-

ness than usual." Hence the question put to Professor
Tyndall : " Do you know any lively, pleasant fellow who
                                          "
would make a good travelling companion       Rackets, played
                                        ?

in a court attached to a public house in Pentonville, was

resorted to again. Having never played before, the present

writer was, if not a very formidable, a very exasperating

antagonist ; an ill-directed ball not infrequently disappear-

ing among the neighbouring houses, to be presented a few

minutes later by a messenger claiming compensation for a
broken window. But Spencer took it all broken windows

and poor play in good part. After some twenty minutes

he would sit in one of the adjoining sheds and dictate for

about the same length of time ; then another game, and
so on during the forenoon. On one occasion Professor

Tyndall was persuaded to come. There was a look of

amused incredulity when Spencer told him that the Psycho-

logy was being written in such a piecemeal fashion and

amidst such unattractive surroundings. If the day was
unsuitable for rackets, billiards would be resorted to. In

warmer weather he would betake himself to the Serpentine,

where the forenoon would be spent in rowing and dictating

by turns, or to Kensington Gardens, where short periods
of dictation while sitting under a tree would be relieved

by short periods of walking. With his election to the

Athenaeum early in 1868 a new source of enjoyment was

opened up.

    Having waited in vain for a "lively, pleasant fellow"

as a travelling companion, he made up his mind by the
end of February to start for Italy alone. About this tour

enough  has   been written in the Autobiography    (ii.,  178"-9t8o)o.
He was  back   by the middle of April not much   better
1867-72]       Psychology and Sociology                    143

idle and out of spirits to write letters," but hoping that, if
unable to do much work, he and his secretary might "at

any rate get through some reading."
     The supervision of the preliminary sociological work and

the state of his health furnish only a partial explanation of
the slow progress of the Psychology. His good resolutions
notwithstanding, he was continually being drawn aside from

regular work. One such interruption arose out of a lecture,
delivered while he was in Italy by Mr. Kingdon Clifford

at the Royal Institution, "On some of the Conditions of

Mental Development." Thinking that the lecture conveyed

an erroneous impression as to the authorship of the doctrines

discussed, he consulted Professor Tyndall.

                        To JOHN TYNDALL.            11 May, 1868.

     [The lecture contains] nothing more than brief and popu-
larized statements of some of my already published doctrines.

  . . . My impression is that there is scarcely a proposition,
save quite familiar ones, that is not to be found somewhere or
...other in my book, either in the same shape or some kindred
shape.         I feel it the more necessary not to let this occur-
ence pass without notice, because by and by another occur-
                                   a

                                        it,
...ence of kindred nature, am put in very disagreeable position.
             am now so placed that in reproducing some of my own
    II
                                I
ideas shall run the risk of being supposed to have appropriated
the ideas of others. The circumstances are these. There was

published last year, by Dr. Maudsley, book on the Physiologya
anil Pathologv of (he Mind. . . . Dr. Maudsley now being
cited as the authority for these doctrines which he appropriatesis

from me. . . See, then, my predicament.             am beginning to
         a.                                    I
prepare        second edition of the Principles    of  Psychology, in

which these doctrines that are being widely diffused in connec-
tion with other men's names will reappear.          . The reproduc-
                                             .
                                                 .

tion of my own thoughts will render me liable to the charge of

plagiarism  !

    When the matter was brought to Mr. Kingdon Clifford's

notice, he settled  it  to Spencer's satisfaction by means         ot
                                                                   at
aa  letter in the Pall Mall Gazette of June 24.
    Part of the autumn holiday of 1868 was spent

  Inveroran, where he had good fishing on the Orchy. In

    memorandum he compares, with almost boyish satisfac-

tion, his own success with that of two others staying at
144            Life of Herbert Spencer                                                   [CHAP. xii.

the hotel; one of whom "got up at 5 o'clock, and fished
all the pools before us (Scotchman like !)." His stay was,

nevertheless, cut short for the characteristic reason that

he got "quite sick of the food, so wanting in variety."

     Towards   the end of the                         year his work      Bwiaosloaggyai"n      inter-
rupted. In     an article on "                        Philosophical                           in the

North American Review, for October, Mr. F. E. Abbot

examines Spencer's answers to certain fundamental ques-

tions. To the question What is the origin of life ? " We

find no definite reply of any sort in the volumes before

us." To the question What is the origin of species ? Mr.

Spencer "returns substantially the same answer as Mr.

Darwin." To. the third question What are the causes
of organic evolution ? Mr. Spencer traces it entirely to

mechanical and physio-chemical forces, and recognizes no

force or forces to be called vital in any special sense. And

yet he makes    the   "avnoerrgya"niaincshseurpmeonpltatiroittneyn."dwehniccHyhe,  he condemns,
namely, that    of                                                                 or power, or
aptitude," or  an                                                                  abandons the

mechanical theory and practically adopts the vitalist theory.

These criticisms led to what Spencer calls, in one of his

memoranda, "a small controversy."

I had been charged with inconsistency because I did not
accept the current doctrine of spontaneous generation, which
was supposed to be not only harmonious with the doctrine of
evolution as I held but was thought to be part of which
I                                                                        Ia              it,
                                   it,
was in consistency bound to adopt. Feeling that there was
some ground for the representations made, had to write
                                                                                              a

rejoinder, explaining my view of this question and, as com-
                                                                                   is ;
monly happens, strove to get this done by fixed day, thinking
                                                                      a

that could just do this before rested.                                   It              always these
;I                                                    I
              I

                                                   ;
efforts to achieve some proximate end before leaving off that
do the final mischief for nearly always the threatened mis-
chief comes before this proximate end reached.                                                did so
                                                                      is

                                                                                        It

in this case.  had to break away from my work and leave

town going first of all to Malvern, then afterwards to Ben

Rhydding.

     Spencer's reply  (the facts and arguments                                     of which   had
" the unqualified     endorsement of Huxley,                                        Tyndall   and

Frankland did not appear in the North American Review,
           1 ")
                    it

                                                        1
                                                                   ,

                                                         i.,
as he intended should. Dr. Youmans, reflecting prob-

               Principles of Biology Appendix D, p. 696.
1867-72]               Psychology and Sociology                                    145

ably American opinion, told him the reply was "of no

...value for the general public they cannot understand it.
Now what I wish is to take up the subject myself and put

it so that they can understand              always provided that can
                                       it,
                                                  it
                                                             it,

                                                                          I
arrive at proper understanding of myself. But before
           a
going into          should like to hear whether you consider that
              it
                 I

the inquiry has at all changed aspects. Is in fact, needful

for you to commit yourself         to  either side of  the question as
at present contested "
                           ?

                           To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                     16 March, 1869.

Respecting the             reply   to the   North    A"mseproicnatnaneoRuevsiewg,eneyroau-
                           at the   aspect   of the
ntieoend"  not be alarmed
            question, and  the way in which have committed myself
                                       ;

                                               I
upon it. Huxley has lately been experimenting on the matter,

and reaching remarkable results and though he says that they

confirm some of the observations of Pouchat,         gheenecroantisoinder"s         that
they make the hypothesis of " spontaneous                                          more

untenable than ever.
It will be very well to have the ideas . . popularized,
                                   it                                                                    if,
                                                                                .
as you say,            not comprehensible to the generally intelligent.
I

             it
                   is
But should like the reply as stands to be made accessible
for the benefit of such as can understand it.

While his prudence stood him in good stead in pre-

venting him from joining the newly-formed Metaphysical

Society, for the atmosphere of which temperament would
                                            sh;
                                                                     a
have proved ill-suited, failed to prevent him from going
                              it

out of his way, about the middle of 1869, in an endeavour to
remove the anti-British feeling which had prevailed in the
United States since the Civil War. This was not sudden

resolve for, as far back as 1866, he had endeavoured to
           ;

get Mr. Moncure Conway to take the matter up. Those

who have read the Autobiography are aware of the circum-
stances which led him to write the letter, as well as of the

reasons that induced him to withdraw in deference to the
                                                     it

                                                                                                      1
strongly expressed disapproval of his American friends.
     When he returned from Scotland towards the end of

September, 1869, he had barely reached the middle of

the first volume of the Psycliology.                   He would fain

                     Autobiography, ii., 210, and Appendix E, p. 497.1
           JO
146 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xil.

have  gone to  Switzerland to see Professor Tyndall, who
was   laid up  in consequence of an accident ; but " I

have been idle for so long a time, I am anxious to get

some work done." It is questionable whether such an

extension of his holiday would have added to his working
power ; for he was wont to say that Tyndall's " infectious
vivacity " was too exciting. By sticking to work he suc-

ceeded in issuing three instalments of the Psychology

between December, 1869, and March, 1870, inclusive, thus
affording a prospect that ihe remaining part " Physical
Synthesis " although it covered entirely new ground, would

be finished before the autumn holiday. This holiday of

1870 was longer and more varied than usual. It included
ten days at the Argoed, near Monmouth, with Mr. and

Mrs. Potter ; a fortnight with the Lotts on the north
coast of Wales; and a visit lo Ireland and to Scotland. Of
Ireland he wrote : " I spent three days in Dublin, which has

things in it worth looking at. But I found the living bad

slovenly and dirty. . . . Having heard that they had room

at Inveroran, I determined to go there by way of Belfast.

Belfast I found worse than Dublin the most stinking place

I was ever in, indoors and out ; and I was glad to get away
as quickly as possible." A ramble with Professor Tyndall

in the Lake District, after the meetings of the British Associa-

tion in Liverpool, was   athnatenthjoeya"blPehyesnicdailng   to his holiday.
     In the expectation                                     Synthesis" would

be completed before he went away he had been disap-

pointed. It "is very difficult to treat satisfactorily. But

I see that it will form a very important addition to the

general argument." The volume was published in Decem-

ber fully three years after the revision had been begun.

This seemed a favourable opportunity for carrying out his

intention of dedicating the System of Philosophy to his

American friends. Dr. Youmans was, of course, con-

sulted : a proof of the proposed dedication being sent
for suggestions. To his great surprise the proposal was
strongly disapproved of. While it " no doubt would please
American vanity amazingly," " it would be unjust to your

sincere friends in other countries." Thereupon he can-

celled the dedication and ordered the type to be distributed. 1

               1 Edward Livingston YOUHUWS, p. 262.
1867-72]  Psychology and Sociology  147

     The second volume of the Psychology progressed more

rapidly than the first had done, five instalments being issued
in 1871, and the three remaining in 1872. The forecast
given in the following letter was to prove very far from
correct. Twenty-four, instead of twelve, years were needed
to finish the Synthetic Philosophy.

                               To E. L. You MAXS.

                                                                                    12 October, 1872.

     I have just finished the second volume of the Psychology. . . .
1 find on looking back that it is just twelve years since I com-
menced. Having now got half through, it might be inferred
that it will take another twelve years to finish. I have reason
for hoping, however, that ten will suffice. Considerably more
than two years, I believe, have gone in interruptions partly
due to occasional relapses of health, partly to the second edition
of First Principles, partly to various incidental essays and
articles, and partly to the arrangement and superintendence
of the Descriptive Sociology, which, during the earlier stages,
occupied much time. Indeed, now that I put them down,
these interruptions account, I think, for more than two years'
loss of time. As I am much better now than I was when
I commenced, and as I do not see the likelihood of much
incidental writing hereafter, I am inclined to hope that, after
completing the Study \_of Sociology], ten years will suffice to
carry me through.

     The other main occupation during those years the
superintendence of the Descriptive Sociology was disturbed

in 1870 owing to his secretary (the present writer) going to
Madras. Having been led by Dr. Youmans to believe that

there were many young men with the requisite qualifica-
tions who would gladly undertake the work, his disappoint-
ment was all the keener when he failed to find one. After

endeavours continuing for nearly a year, he secured the
services of Mr. James Collier. The printing of the extracts
and tables had not gone far, when the cost began to look
serious, partly owing to the manuscript being sent to the
press in the original rough draft. Before leaving for India

the present writer had drawn attention to the fact that the
manuscript was not in a fit state for publication, and had
suggested taking it with him for revision ; but the risk was
thought too great. One may wonder that, in view of the

cost so far exceeding his expectations, he did not suspend
148 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xn.

the work altogether. Instead of that he was on the look-
out for a third compiler to undertake the Extinct Civilized
Races. Through Mr. Lewes, towards the end of the year,
he, for this work, entered into an arrangement with Dr.

Scheppig.
     The supervision of the Descriptive Sociology had, from

time to time, suggested interesting lines of thought, tempt-

ing him to turn aside from the Psychology. One of these
was connected with the worship of animals, his conclusions

being embodied in an article in the Fortnightly Review for
May, 1870, in which he sought to answer the question, " how
primitive men came so generally, or universally, to believe
themselves the progeny of animals, or plants, or inanimate
bodies." Another line of thought led to the strengthening
of previously formed convictions regarding the origin and
growth of moral opinions and sentiments.

To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                    3 March, 1871.

     I am about, after getting rid of this forthcoming part, to
make another short parenthesis in my work. The representa-
tions of my doctrine respecting the genesis of moral sentiment,
which Mr. Hutton made in Macmillan's Magazine about a year
ago, have been spreading through other channels, and I rind it
needful to put a stop to them. I had intended to let the
matter stand over until I came hereafter to deal with it in the
course of my work : but Mr. Hutton will now have to pay the
penalty a good deal sooner. I am going to prepare the article
for the next Fortnightly.

To CHARLES DARWIN.

                    3 Marc/i, 1871.

     What I have read [of the Descent of Man'] has surprised me
by the immense* accumulation of evidence, interesting in itself
and doubly interesting by its implications, which you have
brought to bear on the questions you discuss. I had no idea
that such multitudinous proofs of the action of sexual selection
were forthcoming.

     I am glad that you have so distinctly expressed your con-
viction on the more special question you treat. It will, I doubt
not, raise afresh the agitation on the general question ; since
many who have in a considerable degree reconciled themselves
to the conception of evolution at large, have never had repre-

sented to them, in a positive way, these ultimate implications
1867-72]  Psychology and Sociology                                         149

of it. Many such will doubtless fight against them ; and out of
the fighting there is sure to come further progress.

     I very much wish that this book of yours had been issued
somewhat earlier, for it would have led me to introduce some
needful explanations into the first volume of the Principles of
Psychology, lately published. One of these explanations I may
name. Though I have endeavoured to showr that instinct is
compound reflex action, yet I do not intend thereby to negative
the belief that instincts of some kinds may arise at all stages of
evolution by the selection of advantageous variations. I believe
that some instincts do thus arise ; and especially those which are
operative in sexual choice.

ticalTh"ebDitesocfenwtorokf,  Man indirectly  led to   another             "parenthe-
                               foreshadowed   in the  following
                                                                            letter :

                             To CHARLES DARWIX.

                                                                                  2 May, 1871.

     It has occurred to me that it may be worth while to write a
few lines to the Contemporary Review a propos of Sir A. Grant's
article. 1 I think of drawing his attention to the Principles of
Psychology as containing proofs both analytic and synthetic, that
the division between Reason and lower forms of Intelligence,
which he thinks so unquestionable, does not exist.

     Before deciding on this course, however, I think it is proper
to enquire whether you propose to say anything on the matter ;

seeing that the attack is ostensibly directed against you.

     Apparently Mr. Darwin was not induced to take the
matter up. Hence the short paper on " Mental Evolution,"
published in the Contemporary for June, to which reference
is made in a letter to Dr. You mans (5 June).

I enclose a brief article just out. I wrote it partly as a quiet
way of putting opinion a little right on the matter. Since the
publication of Darwin's Descent of Man, there has been a great
sensation about the theory of development of Mind essays in
tMheoramlsa,g"aziunePshiloonsouphDyarwanindismDaarwndiniRsemlig"io:n,a"ll  u Darwinism and
                                                                           having reference

to the question of Mental Evolution, and all proceeding on the
supposition that it is Darwin's hypothesis. As no one says a
word in rectification, and as Darwin himself has not indicated

the fact that the Principles of Psychology was published five years
before the Origin of Species, I am obliged to gently indicate this
myself.

1 " Philosophy and Mr. Darwin," Contemporary Review for May.
150                   Life of Herbert Spencer                [CHAP. xn.

Towards the end of the year he was drawn into a

controversy with Professor Huxley, whose address on

"Administrative Nihilism," while dealing with the objec-

tions raised to state interference with education, criticized

adversely the view that Government should be restricted to

police functions, and set aside as invalid the comparison

of the body politic to the body physical, worked out by
Spencer in the article on " The Social Organism." Spencer

replied in the Fortnightly Review for December in an article

on "Specialized Administration," expressing at the same

time his reluctance to dwell on points of difference from

one he so greatly admired.

    "The Xtit ion," wrote Dr. You mans (May, 1869), "gave

you a little thrust the other week, and our friend, Henry

Holt, of the firm of Leypoldt and Holt (publishers of
                                                             The " little
tThariunset),"  took  them to task in last week's  paper."   of Taine's
                 was  made in the course of        a notice
Ideal in Art, in which it was said that "it is Herbert

Spencer's reputation over again ; all very well for the
' general public/ but the chemists and physicians, the

painters and the architects, are disposed to scoff at the new

light." The point of this innuendo must have been very

illusive, for when first Mr. Holt, and afterwards Mr. Fiske,

adduced evidence to prove that, taking Spencer as a

philosopher, "it is clearly not the 'experts' that do the

scoffing," the editor retorted that both of them had missed it. 1
" The correspondence in the Nation," wrote Dr. Youmans,

"has elicited a good deal of comment, not concerning your

doctrines, but yourself. Emerson, Agassiz, and Wynian are

quoted against you on the ground that a man who attempts

so much must be thin in his work." Spencer could treat

such criticisms with equanimity, knowing the esteem in

w<hich he was held by experts. 2   Mr. Darwin,               for example,
showed no inclination to scoff.   " I was fairly             astonished,"

he writes, "at .the prodigality of your original views. Most

of the chapters [of the Biology'] furnished suggestions for
whole volumes of future researches." Nor did Spencer

write to Mr. Darwin as if he were liable to be scoffed at

1 The Nation, from 20 May to 3 June, 1869.                   ii., 216.
* Life and Letters of C. Darwin, iii., 120. Autobiography,
1867-72]                 Psychology and Sociology                                         151

by the great naturalist. Witness the following (dated 8
February, 1868), written on receipt of the Variation of
A ni nuils niul Plants under Domestication :

I have at present done little more than dip here and there

"paPyainnggenmesoirse,"  special attention, however, to the           speculation         on
                           in which, I need hardly say,              I am much            in-
                                                                                           u gemmul.es"
terested. It             ibsyqu"itpehyclseiaorlotghiactalyouunitdso  "n;otanmdeathnatb,y  consequently,
what I mean

the interpretations of organic phenomena to which they lead
you are essentially different from those I have endeavoured to
give. The extremely compound molecules (as much above
those of albumen in complexity as those of albumen are above
the simplest compounds) which I have called u physiological
units," and of which I conceive each organism to have a modifi-
cation peculiar to itself, I conceive to be within each organism
substantially of one kind the slight differences that exist

amongst them being such only as are due to the slight modifica-
tions of them inherited from parents and ancestry. The
evolution of the organism into its special structure, I suppose

to be due to the tendency of these excessively complex units to
fall into that arrangement, as their form of equilibrium under
the particular distribution of forces they are exposed to by the
environment and by their mutual actions. On the other hand,
your u gemmules," if I understand rightly, are from the
beginning heterogeneous each organ of the organism being

the source of a different kind, and propagating itself, as a part
of succeeding organisms, by means of the gemmules it gives off.
I must try and throw aside my own hypothesis and think
from your point of view, so as to see whether yours affords

a better interpretation of the facts. 1

     The year before the Nation made its " little thrust,"
Dr. Hooker, in his presidential address to the British Asso-

ciation,  gave Spencer's observations                                on the circulation of
the sap   and the formation of wood                                  in plants, as an " in-

stance of successful experiment in Physiological Botany."
" It is an example of what may be done by an acute

observer and experimentalist, versed in Physics and

Chemistry, but above all, thoroughly instructed in scientific

methods." Another expert, Mr. Alfred R. Wallace, in bis

Presidential Address to the Entomological Society in

January, 1872, spoke of Spencer's view of the nature and

origin of the Annulose type of animals as "one of the

          1 See Life and Letters of C. Darwin, in., 78, 80.
152 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xn.

most ingenious and remarkable theories ever put forth on

a question of Natural History," and as "a most promising

line of research."
     Such were the opinions of "experts." Here is the

opinion of one who, if not an expert in any branch of
natural science, was one of the leading thinkers of the
time.

                                    FROM J. S. MILL.

                                                                                  2 December, 1868.

     This I may say, that I have seldom been more thoroughly
impressed by any scientific treatise than by your Biology ; that
it has greatly enhanced my sense of the importance of your
philosophical enterprise as a whole ; and that, altogether apart
from the consideration of what portion of your conclusions, or
indeed of your scientific premises, have yet been brought into

the domain of proved truth, the time had exactly come when one
of the greatest services that could be rendered to knowledge
was to start from those premises, simply as a matter of hypo-

thesis, and see how far they will go to form a possible explana-
tion of the concrete parts of organisation and life. That they
should go so far as they do, fills me with wonder ; and I do
not doubt that your book, like Darwin's, will form an era in
thought on its particular subject, whatever be the scientific
verdict ultimately pronounced on its conclusions ; of which my
knowledge of the subject-matter does not qualify me to judge.

     Academical honours were of no value in his eyes, except
as indications that his work was appreciated. He declined
to be put forward for the Lord Rectorship of the Univer-
sity of St. Andrews, or to be nominated for the degree

of LL.D., 1 or to accept an honorary membership of the
St. Andrew's Medical Graduates' Association. To the

Secretary of the Association he stated his reasons in full
(December 16, 1871).

     Some years ago, while occupied in biological enquiries, I

should doubtless have been able to make much use of the
advantages which such an election would have given me ; but

I fear that, as now my studies lie almost wholly in other
directions, these valuable facilities will be almost thrown away
upon me. Doubtless it is true that honorary memberships in
such cases are not supposed to imply habitual participation,

                                        1 Autobiography, ii., 233.
1867-72]  Psychology and Sociology                    153

either in the advantages or in the proceedings of the bodies
giving them. . . .
Beyond the general objection I have to all names and

titles that are not descriptive of actual function, there rises
before me in this case an objection of another order, which
will very possibly be regarded as no less peculiar. I see that
one of the purposes of the Association is u the maintenance of
the interests of the Medical Graduates of the University." . . .
I think that very probably any public action the Association
might take would be one I should disapprove. The doctrines
I have long publicly held respecting the functions of the State
and the liberties of the subject, are of a kind quite at variance
with the policy pursued by the Medical Profession, when it has
...brought its combined power to bear upon legislation.         I

fear that this letter will be regarded as a very ungracious
response to the compliment which your Association has paid
me. But, as I hope your Council will see, my course is one
taken altogether irrespective of the particular circumstances.
The principles I have indicated are principles long since
adopted, and from which I have not hitherto swerved.

    The. French translation of First Principles was expected
to appear early in 1868. When spring of the year following

came without any sign he was "beginning to get a little
anxious." About the middle of 1870 he found out that
the delay was due in part to the difficulty experienced in
preparing the prefatory note, which was growing to the
dimensions of a volume. There were three points Dr.
Gazelles wished to bring out : " To determine your place
in the experimental school ; to trace the evolution of your
idea of Evolution ; in fine, to mark the differences which

separate your philosophy from the only scientific general-
ization known in France the positivism of Comte." To
This Spencer replied at great length in June, 1870, tracing
the development of his thought. Being now in possession
of the required information, Dr. Gazelles expected to have
the translation published in July or August, little thinking
of the disaster that was about to overtake his country.

                              To E. GAZELLES.

                                                                      10 March, 1871.
     I have not endeavoured to communicate with you during
this period of dreadful disaster for France that has elapsed
since I last heard from you about midsummer, 1870. My
silence has been partly due to the feeling that the entire
154 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xn.

absorption of your thoughts and feelings by these unhappy

events made attention to any other matters out of the question ;
and partly to the belief that during this reign of confusion, a
letter would very likely not reach you. Now that I do write
it is more to express my sympathy with you in this time of

national misfortune, than because any matter of business requires
me to write ; for I conclude that, in the state of prostration
under which France must for some time suffer, literary activity
is likely to be almost entirely suspended. My chief hope is
that when social order becomes fairly re-established and the
corrupting effects of the Imperial regime partially got rid of,
the result may be a turning of the national energies into more
healthful channels.

     The long-delayed translation at length saw the light
during the troublous days of the early summer of 1871.
Neither Dr. Gazelles nor M. Ribot could tell how the book
had succeeded in escaping from Paris. The Introduction

pleased Spencer greatly.

             To E. CAZKLLES.

                                         3 3/mvl871.

     The lucidity of your brief statements is admirable, and, in
many cases, presents to me my own ideas with a freshness and
neatness which gives them almost the effect of novelty. Indeed,
I cannot better express the effect produced on me by what I
have read, than by saying that it seems to me as though I were
looking at myself in a glass, not having before known '' what
manner of man I was," as seen externally. This effect is in
part due, I doubt not, to the comparative brevity with which

you have sketched out the System of Philosophy in its
essentials so giving me, free from superfluous details, that
which is habitually present to me under more involved forms,
and in part to the quite different order in which you have
exhibited these essentials. This new concatenation, consider-
ably unlike that through which my thoughts habitually run,
enables me to judge of the ensemble from a fresh point of view,
...and thus gives me an impression of it which I can look at as
though it proceeded from some one else.  I am so struck

by its lucidity and by the vividness due to a presentation of
the main features in rapid succession, that I should like very

much to have it diffused in a separate form. . . .
I should some time since have replied to your letter of
March 21st, had not the occurrence of this dreadful second
             France [the
disaster in  that a letter  excesses of the Commune] led me
to suppose                  would probably miscarry. I wish I
could do something towards mitigating that despondency which

must accompany the view you take respecting the future of
1867-72]   Psychology and Sociology                            155

France. I wish this the more because in the interests of civili-
zation at large, as well as in the interests of France, I should
be glad to rind rational grounds for taking a more favourable
view than that which you take. But, though I shall hope to
see society in France re-organize itself in a more satisfactory
form, I cannot with candour say that my hope is at all a
sanguine one. It has seemed to me for these many years past
that from some cause difficult to trace (race, or the particular

mixture of races, being perhaps at the root) there has arisen
an obstacle to further development. The nature of the social
units seems to have become different from that required for
a higher type of social structure, and, in fact, there seems to
be no type that is suitable. In the average French nature there
appears to be an intolerance of despotism along with an unfit-
ness for freedom or, at least, if these characters do not co-exist
in the same individual, they co-exist in the individuals of the
same society, and prevent that society from organizing itself
into a type under which the units can co-operate harmoniously.

     10 July. I am glad to see affairs in France assuming so much
better an aspect and promising tranquillity for some time to come,
at least. I should have greater hope for the future were there
not already so many indications that the dominant feeling is
that of revenge, and were there not a consequent determination
to still further exhaust the national resources by military pre-
parations, and so to entail a further retardation, if not arrest,
of social growth.

Unknown to Spencer, M. Ribot had already completed

a translation of the original edition of the Psychology. It

was now arranged to substitute a translation of the new

edition. Meanwhile, to give the public some idea of the

psychology of evolution, M. Ribot wrote, for La Philo-

sophic Positive, an article which M. Littre had agreed to
publish, but on seeing it drew back. " Without contest-

ing the great merit of M. Herbert Spencer," wrote

M. Littre, "there are between him and us differences so

profound that we could not receive your article as it is."

He was     willing  wtoerepu"bltirsahnsfothrme edartiicnlteo,   however, on
condition  that it                                             an exposition

pure and simple."
156

                  CHAPTER XIII.

                 THE STUDY OF SOCIOLOGY.

                       (December, 1869 January, 1874.)

     THE adoption of a general title for the System of
Philosophy, reluctantly laid aside in 1867, came up again
in connexion with Mr. Fiske's lectures at the Harvard
University, which were published as delivered in the New
York World, then owned by Mr. Manton Marble. Spencer
was gratified to know that his philosophy was to be
expounded by a disciple so able and enthusiastic, but
the title of the course was not to his liking.

To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                              4 December, 1869.

I am very much annoyed that he should have used the title
he has done. . . . What he has called Positive Philosphy . . .
has little or nothing in common with the philosophy of Comte ;
for even the relativity of knowledge, joined with the deliberate
ignoring of an unknown cause of phenomena is a quite different
thing from the relativity of knowledge joined with the deliberate
assertion of an unknown cause of phenomena. And while this
general doctrine, which Fiske calls Positivism, is not what the
Positivists mean by that title, it is a doctrine which is held by
...those who distinctly repudiate the name Positivists. So far as I
can judge from his programme  a title, which is applied

both by its adherents and opponents to one system of thought,
he is applying to another system of thought, the adherents of
which do not acknowledge the title. Among other evils, one
result of this will be that all who wish to direct against the

doctrine of Evolution such objections and prejudices as have
grown up against the system of Comte, will be able to cite
justification for doing this.

NOTE. Autobiography, ii., chaps, xlvii., xlviii., xlix., 1.
1869-74]                   T^e Study of Sociology                                157

                                   To JOHX FISKE.

                                                                    2 February, 1870.

If the word " Positive " could be dissociated from the
special system with which he [Comte] associated and could
be connected in the general mind with the growing body of
scientific thought to which he applied it, should have no
                                                            I

                                                                          it,

objection to adopt         it      and by so doing accord to him due
                              it,
honour as having given a definite and coherent form to that

which the cultivated minds of his time were but vaguely
conscious of. But seems to me as the case stands, and as the

words are interpreted both by the Comtists and by the public,
the amount of correct apprehension resulting from the adoption
of the word will be far out-balanced by the amount of mis-

apprehension produced.                                          still hold that the
In so far as am myself concerned,
                           I                                a

                                                             I
application of the word to me, connotes far greater degree of

kinship between Comte and myself than really exists. . . . Such

elements of my general scheme of thought as you have brought

into prominence as akin to those of Comte (such as the relativity
of knowledge, and the de-anthropomorphization of men's con-
ceptions) . . have been all along quite secondary to the general
                .

                                  of

                                                      is

                                                        I
                                                               of
                                                                             If
...doctrine of Evolution, considered as an interpretation of the Cosmos
from a purely scientific or physical point view.                                 you bear
in mind that my sole original purpose was the interpretation of
all concrete phenomena in terms of the redistribution of matter
and motion, . . . you will see why regard the application
of the word Positivist to me as essentially misleading. The

general doctrine of universal Evolution as a ncccssarv consequence
                                   Force not contained or implied either in
from the Persistence
Cointism or in Positivism as von define it.

     By the end of the following year Mr. Fiske had come
to the conclusion that Spencer was right " in refusing to

...accept the appellation Positivist in any sense in which
                                   '                        '

it            now possible to use the word.                          '      should like also
    is
                                                                         I
             '
to know what you think of the terms Cosmic PhilosopW                                  '
and Cosmism.'" To these also Spencer objected. Think-

ing the time had now come to give effect to his former

intention,      lie set        aside the reasons that had been urged1
against the      title "      Synthetic Philosophy," and forthwith had

new general title-page inserted in the unsold copies of
a                                                               His objections
                                                                  " Synthetic "
                 7

                        a
First Principles,          Biology, and  Psycliology.                             to
" Cosmic " and             his reasons   for choosing                            are

set forth in letter to Mr. Fiske in 1872 or 1873.

                                      Supra, 131.
                                   1
                                                        p.
158 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. XIH.

To put my view in its most general form, I should say that
a system of philosophy, if it is to have a distinctive name, should
be named from its method, not from its subject-matter.

Whether avowedly recognized as such or not, the subject-
matter of philosophy is the same in all cases. . . . Though
                                          or less synthetic, it  seems to me
every philosophy is more                   and elaborates the    " Doctrine of
           "whisichsynftohremtiuclatiens
that that                                 so especial a manner that it may
Evolution

fitly take from this pecularity its distinctive title.
     It is synthetic as recognizing avowedly that philosophy is a
synthesis of all knowledge that which unifies the partial unifi-

cations achieved by the several sciences.

     It is synthetic as uniting Science and Nescience as the

correlative parts of an integral conception of the Universe.

     It is synthetic as recognizing each derivative law of force as
a demonstrable corollary from the ultimate law, the Persistence
of Force.
It is synthetic as proceeding consciously to the interpretation
of phenomena as caused by a co-operation of forces conforming

to these derivative laws.
It is synthetic as proceeding to deduce from the general law
of the redistribution of matter and motion the successive orders

of concrete phenomena in their ascending complexities.
Further, it is synthetic under sundry more special aspects
as combining and reconciling opposing views as those of the

transcendentalists and the experientialists.
And yet once more it is synthetic in its conception of the

Universe as objective, since it regards the progress of things
which brings about evolution as being itself a synthesis a

reaching of more and more complex products through succes-

sive increments of modification.

Mr. Fiske did not think " that Synthetic, any more than

Cosmic, will apply, as a distinctive name to your philosophy.

The differential mark of your philosophy not that
           1
Synthetic or that
                    it
                          is
                                                           it
                                                                   is is,

                                                                                         it
                                                                                              is
                           Cosmic, but that                      based upon

the conception of Evolution as opposed to the conception

of Creation." The term Cosmic would, however, in Dr.
Youmans's opinion, " probably come under popular use in

this country. Nothing short of the Cosmic will satisfy the

AmeInritcoanthespprreoajedc-etagfolerisamn."" International Scientific Series"

Spencer entered with the utmost cordiality, the proposed

arrangements seeming to "practically amount to inter-

           Edward Livingston Youmans, pp. 290-92, note
           1

                                                                                              f-
1869-74]            The Study of Sociology                                                             159

national copyright." a The international character of the

scheme gave occasion for the clashing of interests, the

exciting, of jealousies, unlooked-for delays, and many disap-

pointments. After some six months negociations in Europe
Dr. Youmans found, on
                                returning                                          to New     York, that
American writers had to be      propitiated.                                         " There  was unani-

mous and much bitter complaint on the part of the press

at the absence of any American element, and it was urged

upon me all round in the interest of the undertaking that

the omission should be supplied as early as possible." From

the side of the public came complaints of overlapping of

subjects, of over-prominence given to certain topics, and

of   inequality in   the  amount   of mailer. Even                                             the   size of
the  page agreed    upon  had to  be strictly adhered                                         to.   " Books

of that kind we cannot sell," wrote Dr. Youmans, with

reference to a proposal to introduce a larger paged book into

the series. Altogether, the task which Professor Huxley,

Professor Tyndall and Spencer took upon themselves when

they agreed to act as a London Advisory Committee, proved

by no means light. On Spencer from the very outset fell the

burden of the Committee's work.

     Spencer's hands being full, he had at first no idea of

himself contributing to the series. But for several years

he had been impressed with the necessity of preparing the

way for Sociology by an exposition of the method by which,

and the spirit in which, the phenomena of society should be

studied. Failing to find any one to do this, or to collaborate

with him in doing he at last yielded to Dr. Youmans's
             it
                        of it,
persistent suggestion that he should write the book himself

and include         in the Series. The result was an arrange-

ment that the Stiutv            Sociologv (the name to be given to

the book) should first appear as articles in the Contemporary

Review, with simultaneous publication in an American period-

ical, about the standing of which he was very particular. No                                        2

sooner had Dr. Youmans seen the first article than he made

up his mind to start magazine (the Popular Science Monthly]
1

                                    a

                                                                         p.
     Edward Livingston Youmans, pp. 266-94.                                        Autobiography, ii., 227,

230-2.                                                                       295.

      Edward Livingston Youmans,
160 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xm.

forthwith, with this article in the opening number. Spencer
was rather taken aback to find that the articles got so little
attention in the United States. Of the chapter on " The
Bias of Patriotism," he writes :

     As its contents are varied, and part of it has a considerable
interest distinct from that of the argument in general, its length
will perhaps not be objectionable. Especially, I suppose, the
castigation of Arnold will excite some attention. . . . You will
see how the sales of my books are increasing. If things go on
thus, I shall make a fortune by philosophy.

    For the chapter on " The Political Bias," he had asked
Dr. You mans to send him "a supp'y of typical illustrations

of the way in which your political machinery acts so ill

its failures in securing life, property and equitable relations.

I want to use the case of America as one among others

to show how baseless is the notion that the form of political

freedom will secure freedom in the full sense of the word."

Mr. Martineau's article in the Contemporary Review for
April, on "The Place of Mind
                              ijn       Nature, and Intuition of

Man," caused brief interruption in the Study Sociology,
a                                        To this           of
         a                              " have
for the purpose of writing reply.                                    a
course of letter to Dr. Youmans;        I         he refers           in the
                              II J                just had              very
                        a            :
enthusiastic letter from Darwin about the article, which

is, of course, satisfactory for feel since the article was

published that he might think ought to have referred to

him personally in connexion with the doctrine defended."

                      To CHARLES DAKWIX.          \2Junc, 1872.

cannot consent to let your letter pass without saying how
II                                                should very well
much gratifiedI       am by your approval.  aI

                   I                               it
                                                                         ; If,
have liked, had time permitted, to deal somewhat more fully
with the metaphysical part of Mr. Martineau's argument.
as expect him to do, he makes some reply, will probably
furnish the occasion, after an interval, for fuller exposition
by which hope to make clear to quite ordinary apprehensions,
the absolute emptiness of all such propositions as that with
which Mr. Martineau deludes himself and his readers.

1               Life and Letters of C. Darwin, iii., 165.
1869-74]            Th e Study of Sociology                                    161

                     To J. E. CAIRNES.

                                                              21 March, 1873.

    At present I have done nothing more than just dip into
your essay on Laissez-faire. Without being quite sure that I
seize your meaning exactly, I feel inclined to object to that
                                       "wthheichabyleou
current conception   of laissez-faire                          appear to   accept
and argue upon.                                               men who     led the
                    You say that
agitation for the repeal of the Corn Laws promised much more
than this. They told us that the Poor Laws were to follow the
Corn Laws ; that pauperism would disappear with the restric-
tions upon trade, and the workhouses ere long become obsolete

institutions."

     Now as a Poor Law is itself a gross breach of laissez-faire,
in what I conceive to be the true meaning of this passage
                                                              a it,
seems to me to be tantamount to an expression of disappoint-                  it
ment that obedience to laissez-faire in one direction has not
cured the evils caused by continued disobedience to                               in

another direction.

       do not think that laissez-faire                  to be regarded simply
aI                   it
                           is
     a
        it,                              :

                                                    is
as politico-economical principle only, but as much wider
principle the principle of letting all citizens take the benefits

and evils of their own acts not only such as are consequent
on their industrial conduct, but such as are consequent upon
their conduct in general. And while laissez-faire, as under-
                                                              I

stand        forbids the stepping between these private acts and

their consequences,  quite consistent with the doctrine

that government should, far more effectually and minutely
than at present, save such individual from suffering evils or

claiming benefits due to the acts of others.

About this time he became acquainted with Mr.

Arinori Mori, the     Minister  of     Japan              to  the United States.
" He came," says     Spencer,   " to     ask            my    opinion about the

re-organization of Japanese institutions.                     gave him conser-
             a
                      a

                                       of

                                                                       I

                                                                                               3

                                                                                    I
                                                                                                        of
vative advice urging that they would have eventually

to return to form not much in advance of what they

had, and that they ought not to attempt to diverge widely

from it."

Spencer's aversion to self-advertisement comes out in his

reply to suggestion made by Dr. You mans regarding the

final chapter of the Study Sociology.

                              To E. L. YOUMANS.
                                                                             June, 1873.

    To your suggestion that in the concluding chapter should

outline the coming treatment of the subject in the Principles

    ii
1 62 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xm.

Sociology, I fear I cannot yield. The concluding chapter, as I
have outlined in thought, \vill make no reference whatever
I iIs, I
           I

              aI
                     I

                            it,
                                                    it
                                                   if
                                                            it
                                                                                   if
                                                                               I

                                                                                                                                                                         ;

                                                                                                             ; it
to the Principles of Sociology, and could not do so \vithout an
obvious departure from the proper limits of the book. To the
advantage that might result from indicating the scope of the
Principles am entirely indifferent about any probable increase

of sale do not care in the least. Indeed, so far from being
tempted by an opportunity for something like an advertisement,
                            came naturally. Even as
should be tempted to avoid
    feel certain distaste for the inclusion of the two chapters,
"Preparation in Biology" and u Preparation in Psychology"
since these may be regarded as indirect advertisements of my
own books.              would escape this implication                                                    could and

shall solicitously avoid any such further implication.

to  "Hivsersyojobuardn  in Scotland this year was cut short owing
                        weather, very little amusement, and un-

satisfactory health." Taking into account the expediency

of proceeding at once with the Principles              of of                                             Sociology, one

would have thought he would have avoided outside entan-

glements. But the writing of the Study                                                                   Sociology had

revived his former active interest in the question of the

separation of Church and State, leading to meetings and

discussions with those in favour of the movement.                                                        1

    In the last chapter of the Study  of   Sociology he had
singled out Mr. Gladstone as " the exponent of the anti-

scientific view." Mr. Gladstone repudiated the interpreta-
tion put on his words " Whether there be or not grave
                        :

differences of opinion between us, they .do not arise from the

words in question." Spencer thereupon withdrew the

erroneous construction, and took steps to counteract it.-'

Thinking the small controversy between them had thus been

amicably terminated, Mr. Gladstone did not read the proof

which Spencer had sent him showing how was proposed
       a

           it

                                   1
                                                                                                      5

                                                                       it
to correct the misinterpretation in future editions. When

he did look into this some five weeks afterwards, he found

there reference to      the other passage quoted,                                                        the manifest
meaning of which        he had not disclaimed.                                                           This " other

passage," Mr. Gladstone wrote, had not been disclaimed

because     was not in the Contemporary Review article, but

appeared for the first time in the book itself. Moreover,

                        Autobiography^ ii., 258-60.

                        Study of Sociology, note t-> chapter xvi.
1869-74]  The Study of Sociology                        163

" you can hardly have taken the pains to read the words
you have quoted they speak, as you will see on perusing
them, of a third person and they run thus ; ' // ivonld scan
that is his view.' . . . That which I describe as the opinion

of the man I am condemning, you quote as my opinion."

                           To W. E. GLADSTONE.

                                     14 January, 1874.

I greatly regret that any act of mine should have called for
your letter of the 12th regret it alike for the reason that your
valuable time has been thus expended, and for the reason that

you have found just cause of complaint against me.
Let me at the outset, however, draw your attention to the
fact that, having forwarded to you before it was printed, a proof
of the addition I proposed to make to the volume, it is manifest

that such misrepresentation as is chargeable against me, however

otherwise blameworthy, was not committed consciously. . . .
     But now proceeding to the points at issue, let me say that I
by no means admit all that you allege against me. A large part

of the allegation is       founded   omntoyasnehlfaovvmeerasd"igeih.ntt.roa.dlmu. coFesodt r"atshienretom" anrtekhw-e
         "thawthicwhhicIh
able as                      I have
passage
                            am said

volume, and which directly and by implication is said not to

have been in the Contemporary Review, was in the Contemporary

Rc'i'iezv. . . .

     But now having, as I think, conclusively shown that one of
the two complaints against me is unfounded, I go on to admit
that the other is well founded. . . . How I came so to mis-

construe the sentence as to ascribe to you that conception of
the attitude of Science towards Providence which you ascribe

to another, I do not know. It was a piece of stupidity which,
when I read your letter at the Athenaeum, I could scarcely
believe I had been guilty of ; and it was not until I returned
home and referred to the volume, that I became convinced I
had been thus careless where I ought to have been specially

careful.

     With respect, however, to the essential issue, I cannot see
that I have misapprehended or misstated your position. . . .

     Returning, however, to the immediate question, I will forth-
with erase the rinal paragraph of my comment on your letter,

...and in its place put one apologizing for the misconstruction

of the sentence referred to.
     Hoping that you will forgive me for having unintentionally

entailed on you so much trouble and annoyance.

     It was now Mr. Gladstone's turn to apologize. Even
were he inclined, he said, to push matters to extremes he
164 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xni.

felt that he had forfeited all title to do so by having himself
committed an oversight which he thought quite equal, to
say the least, to Spencer's. " I am glad," he added, " a
correspondence has occurred which proves your anxiety
not to wound or misrepresent, and I shall be further glad
if circumstances should, with your permission, allow our

"Itacquaintance to be improved." To this Spencer responded:
        is almost superfluous on my part to say that I very
gladly reciprocate the wish with which you obligingly close
your note."

     The Descriptive Sociology, upon which he had drawn
largely in writing the Study was making increasing calls
upon ins time and his purse. His friends in America
wished to relieve him of the cost of Dr. Scheppig's volumes,
but their proposals were declined owing to his annoyance
at reports respecting the aid which had been rendered by
Americans and the embarrassments from which he had
been rescued by them. While holding this decision to be
mistaken, Dr. Youmans felt that " there is nothing for me
but acquiescence under the circumstances, but I do not
agree to it as a final thing." " I am not certain about the
general policy to be pursued, having been a good deal
demoralized by your refusal of the movement we had
planned." Eager and energetic as usual, he was ready to
undertake any amount of work to promote the sale. But
Spencer would neither himself push the sale at home, nor
sanction arrangements proposed for pushing it in America.

                               To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                         11 July, 1873.
      The undertaking gives me an immense amount of worry and
trouble, and seriously hinders other work, and I cannot enter-
tain any plans that will involve re-arrangements and give further
trouble. You must just do the best with the thing as it comes

to you. If it is profitable, so much the better. If not, it cannot
be helped. The first consideration with me is to have this

 organization of materials available for my own use ; the second,
 that of making it available for general use. The third con-
sideration, of a greater or smaller amount of profit, weighs with
 me but little.

      15 July. I fear that my last letter, written in a hurry, was
 somewhat too directly expressed, and that the negation of your
1869-74]              The Study of Sociology         165

proposed plans may have been a source of annoyance.  Pray
forgive me if it \vas so.

    27 September. I am quite content to give my labour for

nothing. I am content even to lose something by unrepaid costs
of authorship ; but it is clear that I shall not be able to bear the
loss that now appears likely.

     12 November. Referring to the business arrangement of the
Descriptive Sociohgv in America, I shall prefer to have it on a
mercantile basis ; and believe that on the terms I proposed,
I shall be able to carry it on, if not without loss, still without
greater loss than I can bear. I have carried it on thus far
single-handed ; and I purpose to continue it in the same way.

The interval between the completion of the Study of

Sociology and the beginning of the Principles of Sociology,

offered an opportunity for carrying out the intention, re-

ferred to in the first paragraph of the article on Mr.

Martineau, of dealing with the chief criticisms that had

from time to time appeared on the general doctrine of

Evolution as set forth in First Principles. While he was

eanngaargteicdle,on"  this the Quarterly  Review for October, 1873, had
                      respectful, though  antagonistic." Simultaneously

there appeared in the British Quarterly an article also an-

tagonistic, but, as he thought, not respectful. These led him

to write a postscript dealing with the new points raised. Of
"Ithis he says to Dr. Youmans (12 November) :
                                                     enclose

the postscript to the ' Replies to Criticisms,' which runs to

a greater length than I intended. It is desirable, however,

that these attacks in the Quarterly and British Quarterly

should be effectually met. That in the Quarterly is clearly

by Mivart, and that in the British Quarterly is by a man

named Moulton (a senior wrangler, I hear)." A portion of
the proof of the reply to the British Quarterly was kept back
to be used or not at the discretion of his biographer. l

A rejoinder by the British Quarterly reviewer led to

another from Spencer when issuing his Replies in the form

of a pamphlet. Before this, however, he had told Dr.
Youmans : " You will see that the reviewers are both pretty

    1 The " Replies to Criticisms" is reprinted in Essays, ii., 218 ; for the
postscript dealing with the Quarterlies, see p. 258.
'66 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xm.

effectually disposed of. Tyndall and Hirst have both
verified my position against the British Quarterly. Tyndall
thinks that Tait will very likely show fight. I hope he will,
I shall be down upon him still more heavily if he does."
Professor Tait did "show fight." His letter in Nature of
26 March, 1874, initiated a correspondence in the pages of
that journal, on the nature and origin of physical axioms,
which continued for months, even after the original com-
batants had retired from the contest. 1

     A few matters of interest, more or less outside his main
pursuits, may be gathered from the correspondence.

                             To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                                                         16 February, 1872.

     On Friday I had the latest news of Huxley. He wrote from
Malta and was beginning to get over his depression. We are
using influence to get out to him a peremptory official order

not to return in time to finish his course of lectures, as he had
intended to do.

     22 March. The publishers here have done what I expected
they would do make a counter-move trying to commit the
authors to combined action with them. They have hooked a
few, and leave no chance unused to hook others ; for they have
actually written to me to join their Committee !

     8 April. Tyndall is obviously nettled by my attack on the
men of science in the Contemporary article 2taking it as per-
sonal ; which, indeed, remembering some discussions we have
had, he has some ground for doing. He says it is well for me
that his hands are full ; betraying, at the same time, an amusing
unconsciousness that it is possibly well for him also.

     9 December. Huxley is beginning decidedly to improve.
He has been building a house, and migrates to it next week.

     This migration was the occasion for one of those inter-
changes of expressions of mutual regard that go so far to
sweeten life. 3 In replying to Spencer's reference to their

long-standing friendship, Professor Huxley wrote: "You

    1 Nature, 26 March, 1874; 2, 16, 23, 30 April;  7, 14, 21, 28 May ;
4, 11, 18 June; 20, 27 August. Essays, ii., 298.
i.,
    - The Stuffy of Sociology, chapter i.
    3 Life of Professor Huxley, 385.
1869-74]   The Study of Sociology                                       167

do not set a greater value on our old-standing friendship
than I do. It has been the greatest pleasure to me to see
the world in general gradually turning to the opinion of you

which is twenty years old in my mind." A further proof

of Spencer's affection was shown in the active steps he took
along with other friends to enable Professor Huxley to take

a much needed rest.

           To CHARLES DARWIN.

                                                       26 April, 1873.

I rejoice with you that our plot has succeeded so well

beyond expectation, indeed.
           ltohningg,hoIlidtahyink",
      One                               remains to be  done. Huxley talks     of
taking a                              in the summer."    I think he must not  be

allowed to postpone taking it. He must go away at once, and

to that end we ought to put pressure on Foster.
I have been to see Tyndall about
                                                       and he agrees in my
proposal to write and ask your opinion.J. a

                                          I it,

                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                    ;
We might send joint letter to Foster (which you would
write) giving emphatic expression to our opinion in the matter
and judging from what Farrar said when saw him, there will

probably be no difficulty.

    The death of Mr. S. Mill in May of this year brought
Spencer "a serious deprivation." In an obituary notice in
the Examiner (17 May), he gave expression to his sense of
the public and private loss sustained by the passing away

of one, distinguished alike by the force and perspicacity of

his intelligence and by the loftiness of his moral character.

           Autobiography^ ii., 247, 506.
                    i68

                    CHAPTER XIV.

DISTASTE FOR HONOURS AND CEREMONIAL.

          (January, 1874 December, 1877.)

SPENCER'S "abortive attempt to keep a diary" during

1874, affords little help to his biographer. The entries,

few and   meagre,   occur only  "inBreJaankfuaasrtyed  and March.      On
4 March,  there is  an entry :                           with Mr.  Glad-

stone" a carrying out of the wish expressed by both at

the conclusion of their controversy.

Efforts were being made to induce him to join the

Royal Society.

                             To j. D. HOOKER.

                                                                     28 March, 1874.

     Since our brief conversation some two months ago, I have
repeatedly considered your kindly expressed wish that I should
join the Royal Society ; and, that I may not fail in treating the
overture with due appreciation, I have decided to set down my

thoughts on paper.
     When, on several occasions during recent years, the like

suggestion has been made to me, my response has, I doubt not,
seemed eccentric. I have a dislike, perhaps morbid in degree,
to the tendency shown in the Royal Society, as in the com-
munity at large, to hang on to the skirts of the titled class.
The maintenance of special facilities for the admission of peers,
and the appointment, as Presidents, of men who, but for their
rank, would not have been thought of as appropriate, have
always seemed to me to imply a disrespect for science which
the Royal Society should, above all bodies, have avoided show-
ing. When, not very long since, a nomination to the Council

was advocated by Sabine, then President, on the ground that
the nominee had induced two peers to become Fellows, the
continued existence of this feeling was clearly proved, and it

was the continued existence of this feeling which I remember

          NOTI . Autobiography, chaps, liii., liv.
1874-77] Distaste for Honours and Ceremonial 169

giving as my objection, the last time the question of my joining

the Society was raised at the X (Asa Gray being, I remember,

our guest on the occasion). Since then, there has doubtless

been a great improvement. Your own election as President,
in preference to the Duke of Devonshire, has illustrated it in

a striking way ; and the pending proposal to alter the rule
respecting the admission of peers, further shows it. So that,
were there no other reasons, this would now be no deterrent.
Other reasons, however, remain. In the case of the Royal

Society, as in the case of other learned bodies, there grows up,
in addition to the first purpose, a second purpose, which even-
tually becomes predominant. Co-operation for the advance of

knowledge is the original purpose ; the wearing a badge of

honour is the derived purpose ; and eventually the derived

purpose becomes more important than the original purpose.
Now badges of honour of this kind are beneficial or mischievous

according to circumstances. When given to men early in their
careers, they serve them as authoritative endorsements ; and
thus diminish the difficulties to be contended with. When,

contrariwise, they are not given, an increase of these difficulties
results. Absence of the endorsement becomes an additional
hindrance. The world at large, little capable of judging, and
led by marks of this kind, thinks lightly of those who do not

bear them, and pays relatively less attention to anything they
do. There arises, in fact, to use a sporting metaphor, a kind of
inverse handicapping a system under which those who, from

youth or other causes, are already at a disadvantage, are artifi-
cially disadvantaged still more ; while those who have already
surmounted their difficulties have their progress artificially
facilitated. Evils arise from this, of which my own experience
                             If, within moderate time after the
has made me conscious.         of   a
                                      a
publication of the Principles      Psychology in 1855, proposal to
                                             it
join the Royal Society had been made to me,  possible that
                                                  is
                                                     a

                                                                    a

                                                                   I
the hope of having my path made somewhat easier might have
over-ridden the feeling described above. But during the long
period throughout which was frittering away what property
                        I

possessed in publishing books that did not pay their expenses,
there came no such aid. There came, rather, the hindrance

which, as have said, results from the non-possession of mark
I

of distinction possessed by others     hindrance shown at home

by the long neglect of my books by the press, and abroad by
the absence, until recently, of translations. The natural diffi-
culties, which are quite great enough and often prove fatal, and
were more than once nearly proving fatal in my own case, are
thus made greater than natural. That many aspirants should
be killed off in the struggle to gain recognition, may be, on the

whole, salutary though, among them, adverse circumstances
   ;

                                            I

                                                                    it
probably extinguish some of the best. But think undesir-

able that the natural struggle should be made artificially more
       170 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xiv.

       severe for those whose circumstances are already unfavourable.
       I do not by any means intend to imply that the Royal Society

       has not, in many cases, endorsed men at those early stages
       when its endorsement was valuable. So far as it has done

       this, let the fact be recognized ; and so far as it has not done

       this, let the fact be recognized ; so that there may be a balanced
       judgment respecting the extent to which the presence or absence

       of its endorsement is to be taken as a test.
       Yet a further motive, more exclusively personal than the last,
       weighs with me the motive which
       you that " I thought it was too late."                prompted my remark          to
                                                              Next year, my career       as

       an author will have extended over a quarter of a century.
       Were I now to become a candidate for the Royal Society, and

       to be elected, the interpretation generally put upon the fact
       would be that only now, after this long period, has the pro-
       priety of such an election become manifest. A tacit admission
       to this effect, I feel disinclined to make. And in addition to

       the feeling which disinclines me to make              have suspicion
                                                             ;

                                                               it,

                                                                 I

                                                                                      a
       that  might not be altogether politic so tardy an election
             I it
                                      I
       would, think, be rather damaging to me than otherwise.
       Thus you see that have sundry motives for still holding
       back. Though my great respect for you, personally, and the
       desire to yield to your friendly overture, led me for while
                                                                                         a

                                                                                                  I
       to waver yet, after repeatedly thinking the matter over, un-
I
                             ;
                   it
                          is
                                                          ;
                                             I
       original reasons and feelings have reasserted themselves.

       regret that  so and that am obliged thus to make what

       fear you may regard as an ungracious response.

it It       The English translation of Dr. Gazelles' Introduction toaa
       First Principles was now (May, 1874) ready for the press.is     a
      a
           had at one time been intended that Mr. Fiske shouldit                    is is

       prepare it; "but," wrote Spencer in May, 1871, " reason

       has occurred to me for not asking him. The name

       doubly odious here just now not only because of your
       finance schemer of that name, but also because the name

       also that of an American who implicated in horrible
       scandal now before our courts." The title selected for the

       translation may cause surprise to one who has in mind

       the correspondence year or two before about the title
       "Synthetic Philosophy." "'Synthetic Philosophy' would
       be damper to most, even when was intelligible, which

          would be to but few. " Evolution Philosophy," will, on
       the contrary, be attractive, and will convey some idea of

       the book."
            The following refers to lecture by Dr. Youmans before
                                         a
1874-77] Distaste for Honours and Ceremonial 17 i

the Liberal Club, New York, on " Herbert Spencer and the
Doctrine of Evolution." J

                               To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                                20 //?<-, 1874.

     Of course, I cannot but rejoice at the complete success of
your address and exposition.

     But while it is a source of satisfaction to me to have such
able defence and advocacy, I see abundant reason to congratu-
late you upon the clearness and power of that which is wholly
your own. Your sketch of the pre-existing state of opinion,
and of the irrational compromise which had been made by
scientific men is admirable ; and you bring into a vivid light
their failure to recognize the changed position of things that
had grown up, and the necessity for a total reorganization of
thought. So well have you put the matter that everyone who
reads may see that such a change was impending ; and that
the last generation of scientific men, narrowly disciplined by
their special studies, were incapable of seeing it.

    You have put in immense claims for me ; and doubtless
greatly astonished your audience, and will greatly astonish also
the more numerous readers of your address. . . .

     I see you finally decided to have your say about Emerson.
It is very pungent, and will, I should think, cause considerable

sensation. If as you say, controversy has been growing hot,

we may expect it to grow r hotter, now that you have added to
it these burning criticisms.

     His persistent defence of his originality and inde-

pendence was associated with an equally persistent repug-
nance to anything that had the appearance of blowing, or

conniving at blowing, his own trumpet. His dislike of self-

advertisement made him hesitate as to the publication in
London of Dr. Youmans's eulogistic lecture either separately
or as an appendix to the English translation of Dr. Gazelles'
Introduction. Written, as its author said, for the meridian
of New York, it might, Spencer feared, compromise him if
published in the meridian of London. Similarly, when
towards the end of the year he learnt that some verses
"gracefully written and eulogistic in a high degree," which
Mr. Grant Allen had sent him, 2 had also been sent to Mr.
Morley for publication in the Forfnightlv Review, he decided

                           1 Edward Livingston Youmans, p. 325.
                              Memoir of Grant Allen, p. 55.
i/2     Life of Herbert Spencer                           [CHAP. xiv.

that it would never do to have them published with his

cognisance.
     " Pray do not fail to reach Belfast by August 19," he

wrote to Dr. Youmans, in view of the Meeting of the British

Association there, under the presidency of Professor Tyndall.
This meeting cut down his holiday in Scotland to about one
month. The earlier portion was spent with Mr. and Mrs.
Holt at the Dell of Abernethy, on Speyside, and the latter
portion at Ardtornish.

        To MRS. HOLT.

                                 ARDTORXISH, 5 August, 1874.

By the time this reaches the Dell, I suppose you will have
returned to that comfortable nest where you left your little ones
finding them, I hope, all well.
My journey went on without hitch weather good and times
fitting as intended. The drive along the shores of Loch Laggan
was well worth having quite new to me and bearing compari-
... ...son with other fine scenes which Scotland offers.
        I have spent the time in lishing, with tolerable success.
Not to you perhaps, but to Mr. Potter                   it may be worth
stating the results : Saturday, 13 sea- trout weighing 15 Ibs.,
...and Monday one salmon of 7 Ibs. and 15 sea- trout weighing
9 Ibs.  I hope it has been different on the Spey, and that
your papa has done better than I did. Mr. Holt, too, has, I

hope, not come home empty-handed three times running !
My best way of thanking you for your kind hospitalities will
be to tell you how very much stronger I found myself than I
expected. On Monday my 8 hours continuous fishing, which
would have quite exhausted me a fortnight ago, did not make
me more than pleasantly tired all the result of life at the
Dell.

                               To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                            28 August, 1874.

     You would have enjoyed the Belfast meeting. It went off
very well, and Tyndall's address, though it called forth many
sermons, was otherwise well received. Huxley's lecture, too,
was a great success. The occurrence of the two together is
regarded as a throwing down the gauntlet.

     6 November. I suppose that with you, as here, the forma-

tion of opinion is increasing at a great rate. Tyndall's address
has greatly added to it. The newspapers make it a topic,
letters are published, pamphlets issued ; and there is a continual
increase of magazine-essays and books, dealing with one or
other aspect of the general question. The results are coming
1874-77} Distaste for Honours and Ceremonial 173

to be altogether incalculable. There seems to be no knowing
what a few years might bring forth.

     One of the most remarkable signs is that Mivart is com-
mencing in the Dublin Review a most elaborate examination of
the Principles of Psychology. He is actually taking it chapter by
chapter, and proposes, in successive articles, to go thus through
the whole of it ! So far as I have seen, his criticisms are the
merest quibbling ; which, besides being baseless, do not in the
least touch the general issues. But I am quite content : he
will doubtless aid in the further diffusion of the work. The
current number of the Revue des Deux Monties had an article
by M. Janet, of the 1French Institute, on the Study of Sociology.
I have not yet had time to read it ; but see that it is apprecia-
tive, though critical. Morley, too, tells me that he is going to
have an article on it in the Fortnightly by Professor Cairnes.

One of the results of the awakened interest alluded to

was the starting of a journal of mental science by Professor

Bain a project in which Spencer took a great interest, and
in the initiatory stages of which he assisted Professor

Groom Robertson with his counsel.

     It is time that something was said about the Principles of
Sociology, for the writing of which the way seemed clear

in the spring of 1874. The protracted course of the
Psychology had come to an end ; the exciting episode of the

Study of Sociology had attracted  the notice of    atowCidrietircipsmubslic"
than any of his previous books    ; the " Replies

had squared accounts with opponents ; and the sociological

materials he had been accumulating by proxy for the past

six years were now in a sufficiently advanced state for use.

It is true that his anxieties about the Descriptive Sociology
had not grown less as the work progressed. Its importance

urged him to push on ; the outlay urged him to hold back.
His letters on the subject took their colour from whichever

of the two feelings happened to be uppermost at the time.
" Sir Rutherford Alcock, our late minister in Japan, who

is preparing an article on Japan for the next Quarterly, told

me that he had found it [the' English '] of immense service
in comparing Japanese feudalism with English feudalism."
" I begin to hope that eventually, though slowly, the cost
of production will be repaid, or at any rate nearly, so that

I shall not be prevented from going on." This fear of
being " prevented from going on " was at the bottom of his
174 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xiv.

anxiety. About one of the schemes that emanated from

Dr. Youmans's fertile brain he     writes in August, 1874 :
" The matter is too marvellously   involved to allow of my

clearly understanding all the bearings of the proposal you
give in the space of a single sentence." The " marvellously

involved" scheme arose out of a generous offer of ^,500
from Mr. Edwin W. Bryant, of St. Louis. 1 "The anticipa-

tion that I should have to stop or to lose has, of course,

as you know, been my own anticipation. But, as you
know, I do not care for this if I do not lose more than

I can bear. The miserable ambition of merely scraping

together money, is one with which I have so little sympathy

                                  comprehend it."    In January,
                                    other books are    prospering
...that

was
I can scarcely                                                     1875, he
hopeful, " My                                                       so well

that I shall be able to carry on.  So that I am in good

spirits, notwithstanding the heavy drafts on my resources."
Next month the other feeling was uppermost. " It is clear

that, as things now look, I must stop." The volumes
already begun must be published ; " but after this is done

I shall be disinclined to sacrifice further large sums and

give myself continued trouble for the benefit of so incredibly

stupid a public."

     When he mentioned in the spring of 1873 that he did
not expect to issue the first number of the Principles of
Sociology before going on his holiday, he little thought that

March of 1874 would find him with only about sixty pages
of manuscript ready. About the second instalment he
writes in November : " I am delighted with the piece of

work I now have on hand. The genesis of superstitions

has been slowly improving with me into a coherent

doctrine for years past, and has now become quite clear

and complete." The third instalment was out in February,

1875. They were now appearing too rapidly for Dr.
You mans, who, as editor of a journal appealing to the

general public, was finding their destructive character

somewhat embarrassing ; more especially seeing that the

b"gormeba-tshierlrlita"bhiliatdy  in the theological mind, since Tyndall's
                                  not yet been allayed. Occasionally the

heterodox ideas were met by ridicule in place of censure, as

                                  1 Autobiography, ii.. 268.
1 874" 7 7] Distaste for Honours and Ceremonial ,175

in the instance alluded to by Spencer in a letter of 22iid
January, 1875 : " I enclose you two jcnx d' esprit which will
amuse you. The one from Punch 1 is admirably witty. I
wish Tyndall had done what I urged him asserted more

emphatically that the atom is but a symbol."

                               To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                                                         14 April, 1875.

     You are quite right as to withholding from the Monthly the
chapters I sent you [chapters xvii. to xx.]. I sent them merely
because you requested it. I have often had qualms as to the
policy of making the Monthly a propagandist organ to so large
an extent ; and I am rather glad than otherwise that you are
limiting this use of it. Especially it as you think, wise to do
so in respect of these present chapters and the forthcoming
ones are still stronger. Indeed, am beginning myself to have
some fears as to the effect for, as you will by and by see, this

constructive set of chapters so utterly destructive (far more so
than manifest at present) that leaves nothing standing.
cannot see how the so-called orthodox can fail to be made
furious by it. But the thing has to be done.
    is
                                          is ;

                                          it I

                                                                  is,

                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                             I

     Among the extra bits of work this year was the revision
of several chapters of First Principles to meet the criticisms
of Professor Tyndall.

                         To JOHN* TYXDALL.
                                                            24 March, 1875.

    send the enclosed, thinking that                    I if         reaches you before
    I                                                        it
           I
you leave town for. Easter, you may perhaps find time, during     is,

the recess, to cast your eye over the more important of the

changes have made and to add to my already heavy obliga-
tions, by telling me whether you think your objections haveis I
                               ;
had the desired effect.      it,
    You
         "nIeneddesntortu,ctibthiliintky,I trouble yourself to re-read the chapter
    the                            It      of Matter."
on                                                      have duly attended to
                                               is
all the points noted in and have put at the end of a suffi-
                                                                       of a priori.it it, itThe
ciently emphatic   note concerning                 Mthoetiomnea"ning   most of                 itquite
chapter on the     u Continuity of
transformed and now, think, not so far from what should
    I
             it ;
be. am very glad you have persisted in making me think

over again, and recast it.                         now at any rate very much

better than was.
     Respecting the chapter on the u Persistence of Force,"
still find myself unable to take the view that u Conservation                        I
                                                                                     "

              1    16 January, 1875, "Address to an Atom."
176 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xiv.

is a good word, and that u Energy " suffices for all the purposes.
By an added sentence or two, I have sought to make this point
clearer.

     Mr. Sidgvvick's representation in the Methods of Ethics
of some of the views contained in Social Statics he could

not accept as correct.

                                  To HENLRY SIDGWICK.

                                                           12 January, 1875.

     In  Ptrhinecicphleapt"ersit  from        which    you quote           u Derivation of a
First                                          think,  sufficiently        manifest that my
            is is
purpose not to assert the law of the freedom of each limitedof
only by the like freedom of all, as a sufficient guide for in-
dividual action.         It
                                         represented as    first principle to be
                                   is                      ;
                                      is,
                                                                a
                                  I                                             a

                                                                                           It

                                                                                                       is
subsequently limited by                       secondary  "printocipbelesqualifiuedlawbyoffurrtihgehrt
relationship between man                       and man

restrictions originating in the judgment of the individual.
concluded that in drawing " deductions respecting the equitable
                                                                     inallfu" ll
constitution  society,                   we   may   safely assert                      this     liberty
                                          by  the  like liberty of                     but           not
of each limited alone                                                is                      it it
                                                                         a
                                                                                                is is
                                                                                    ;
thereby concluded that this liberty to exercise the faculties
bounded only by the like liberty of others,
                                                                           sufficient guide
for the individual the contrary indicated. The aim of the
                                                       is

chapter       to assert the basis of justice. But justice                                              not

alleged to comprehend all ethical restrictions there are distinct
statements to the contrary. The purpose                              is :  to establish what

claims of the individual are to be held valid against the claims
of other individuals (i.e. society) to control them. And leaves
the actions of the individual to be further controlled by his own

judgment does not in the least assert that he ought to give

free play to all his instincts regardless of the dictates of reason.
My assertion that this free play of the whole nature within the
assigned limits may be safely left to mould the character by

adaptation, through the experiences of pleasures and pains,
not in the least the proposal that u reason
is                                                                         to abdicate in
                                                                           is
   I                                                                            is

                       a

                                       of
favour of instinct," as you state. The assertion that within
the assigned limits of equal freedom, the accumulation of

experiences by the individual, suffering and benefiting by his
own conduct, and checking himself by his own judgments (wise
or foolish as the case may be), will work out beneficial
adaption more certainly than will the enforcing of additional
                                                                                       a
                                              society as embodied in law                     a
restraints by the reason                                                                    reason
                                                                                       sentiment
inevitably vitiated by the ignorance and defective
of the time.                                                                            negation
         quite recognize the fact that in ascribing to me u
                                                                                       ;a
                                                                                                   it
                                                                                                        is
of the natural supremacy of reason over impulse," you are
presenting paradox which elucidates your argument but

somewhat too much at my expense.
1874-77] Distaste for Honours and Ceremonial 177

     In May, 1875, he began to write the Autobiography.
His thoughts naturally turned towards his boyhood.

                      To GEORGE HOLME.  H J/oy, 1875.

     I was very much pleased to hear some time ago, that you
had been elected Mayor of Derby. It was a well deserved
recognition ; and I am glad that it was not longer delayed. It
crowns very satisfactorily that long career of deserved pros-
perity which, beginning gradually in the days when we first
knew one another, has gone on with increasing speed. Little
did we suspect what the future would bring forth on the day
when you saved me from being drowned. Little did the
spectators, who saw a dripping youth conducting home a
half-drowned boy, think that the one would rise to be chief
magistrate of the town, while the other would become well,
somewhat widely known. The recollection must ever continue

to be a source of satisfaction to you as of gratitude in me.

In an article written for Nature, Mr. D. A. Spalding

drew attention    to  an inconsistency  arising out of Spencer's
assumption "    that   feelings stand   in a causal relation to

bodily movements."

                               To D. A. SPALDJNG.
                                                                     5 July, 1875.

    The implication of your argument seems to be that I
identify motion as it actually exists with motion as manifested
to our consciousness. Did I do this there would be the

inconsistency you allege in the supposition that feeling is
transformable into motion and motion into feeling. . . . But

that transformation which I assume to take place (though
without in the least understanding how) is the transformation

of the subjective activity we call feeling (unknowable in its
ultimate nature) and the objective activity we call motion
(also unknowable in its ultimate nature). . . .

     Simply stated, my position everywhere implied is that the
objective activity is inscrutable, the subjective activity is
inscrutable, and the relation between the two is inscrutable.
But looking at the facts of nervous organization and function
I find myself obliged to hold that the two are in some way
related, though I cannot conceive how. I find myself also
obliged to recognize the fact that they are quantitatively
related ; and the fact of quantitative relation implies trans-
formation.

     In December of the following year this question of the
relation between mind and body came up again, in a corre-

          12
178              Life of Herbert Spencer                 [CHAP. xiv.

spondence with Professor Hoffding, \vho had translated a
selection from the Essays into Danish.

                     FROM HARALD HOFFDING.

                                    COPENHAGEN, 14 December, 1876.

I beg leave to ask you for some information with regard
to some places in your works, in which I, after repeated study,
believe to find an inconsistency. . . .
(1) In your First Principles,
                                    71 [ed. 1867], you teach :
u The law of metamorphosis, which holds among the physical
                                    them and the mental             In the
forces, holds    equally between    to be " a necessary  forces."     from
same work,         194, it is said                       deduction

the law of correlation that what exists in consciousness under

the form of feeling, is transform able into equivalents of all the
other forces which matter exhibits." In the Principles of Psycho-
^&i 47 [ed. 1870], the relation between a physical change
and the psychical change accompanying it is compared with

the relation between heat and motion.         " to       the first volume
     (2) But in " Corrections and Additions
                                              "Of        course I do not
of the Principles of Psychology it is said :
mean that material actions thus become mental actions. . . .
I am merely showing a parallelism between certain physical
changes and the correlative psychical changes." With this
          First
agrees       It  Principles,  143, Principles of Psychology,  221 and
    469.
                 is here said, that the evolution of consciousness
follows the general law of evolution, but that it cannot be
explained by deduction from the persistence of force, while
such a deduction is possible with regard to its obverse, the

development of physical changes in a physical organ.

    As for me, I believe that these last-named places explain
the real state of the problem. I also believe that [they] express
your real doctrine.

                             To HARALD HOFFDING.

                                                        LONDON, 18 December, 1876.

     Your letter of the 14th needs no apology on the score of
giving me trouble. Contrariwise I feel indebted to you for
drawing my attention to the inconsistency you name. It is due
partly to the fact that some qualification of the view originally
expressed in First Principles has actually taken place, as was

stated in the earlier part of the Psychology; and it is in part

due to imperfection of expression which I did not observe.
Until now that you draw my attention to the fact, I had for-
gotten that it was needful to make some modification of state-
ment in the passage to which you refer, in First Principles, so
that it may harmonize with the more detailed exposition set
forth in the Data of Psychology. And it did not occur to me
i 8 74- 7 7 j Distaste for Honours and Ceremonial \ 79

that   t"heisqusootaetixopnresysoeud  make      from    the u Corrections and Addi-
tions                                  as to             incongruous with what had
                                                seem

been previously slated. As you may infer from various other
                                                                                            the word
p"apssaargaelsle, lismmy,"  conception,    inadequately    expressed   by                   subjective
                              is better  expressed by    describing   the

states as forming an obverse to those objective states described
as physical changes. And by "parallelism" I meant to indi-

cate the fact that throughout these changes, physical on the

one face arid psychical on the other, there is maintained a

definite relation such that the increases and decreases of the

one are accompanied by increases and decreases of the other.
The word parallelism, however, is misleading to a certain extent,

inasmuch as it supposes that the series of psychical changes is

outside of, and separate from, the series of physical changes.

This, however, is not my view. I conceive the mental force

manifested in consciousness to be the actual correlate of the

physical forces which arouse                    is it,  and of the physical forces
which thereafter initiates not, indeed, as have explained in
       it                                 :;             a
            a
the Data, quantitative correlate, either of the change initiatedisIf, I
at the place where the stimulus applied, or of the quantity of

motion evolved in muscle but the quantitative correlate only
                            a
of such nervous discharge as produced in the centre sensation.it
My view of the relation between the mental force we know as           it of
consciousness, and the physical forces which initiate on the
one side, and which initiates on the other, may be best under-
stood by the analogy which have sometimes used in discussing
the matter with friends.                  If I  you cut the copper wires which

join the positive and negative poles of galvanic battery, and
between the two ends interpose a piece of platinum wire, then
when the circuit
                            is  completed, the galvanic current passing

through the copper wires without sensible change in them,
raises the interposing piece of platinum wire to white heat

(supposing the current                is  strong enough).           now, we suppose

that the one piece of the copper wire represents an afferent
nerve, and the other piece of copper wire an efferent nerve,
while the interposed piece of platinum wire represents the
sentient centre to which the stimulus                      brought and from
                                          is
                                                                        is

                                                                                                                        a
which the motor impulse discharged, then this raising of the
platinum wire to a state of incandescence by the passage of

current through the entire arc, may be taken as symbolizing

the evolution of consciousness in the sentient centre that accom-

panies the entire nervous discharge, constituted on the one side

by the sensory impulse, and on the other side by the motor
impulse. Of course this simply symbol, inasmuch as you
are well aware that do not regard the nervous discharge as
it,

                            I

                                                              ;

                                            is
                                               it

                                                                   a
                                                                  it

                                                                                        is
in any sense electrical but seems to me conceivable that the
form of force which in us constitutes consciousness, correlated

with the force which in shape of an afferent stimulus initiates
and with the form of force which afterwards initiates as
180 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xiv.

a motor discharge, in a way similar to that in which this in-
candescence is correlated with the strength of the electric

discharge. Thus looking at the matter, it is possible dimly to
see how consciousness is related both to the physical force
which initiates and to the physical force which initiates
                       it,                                                     a

and how varies in intensity with each of them, at the same                       is it
            it it                                                                         is it
time that remains incomprehensible how the transformation
                                                                                                      a
takes place, and what the force constituting consciousness is.
And                                                                                                       I;
      it    becomes also possible to conceive how the psychical
          is  the obverse of the physical action which initiates
action

it, and again of the physical action which                                     initiates. Con-

sciousness may, from this point of view, be regarded roughly
as kind of transverse section of the entire arc of nervo-motdr
a
                   occurs at place in the arc where there                      certain
          It

                    a
change.                     a

resistance to passage of the physical discharge (and this we
see to harmonize with the fact that repetition of the discharge
until becomes automatic ends in cessation of consciousness.
      it

So regarding the facts we may say that that form of the ultimate
force which we symbolize as motion (and this to be regarded
simply as our symbol for certain form of the ultimate force)

    under certain conditions presented by sentient nervous
is
                           a

                                             a
                                                  a
centre, changed into that other form of the unknown ultimate
force which constitutes state of consciousness, and that this,
subsisting for moment, becomes again instantly transformed
into the previous state of the unknown force which we symbolize
as motion. This view must be joined with the view which
have repeatedly elsewhere expressed, that both these forms of
force are in themselves but symbolic of the Unknowable Power
of which they are both manifestations, and that the distinction
                            essentially this that what we call our con-
between them
              is
                  a

                      is

                                                                            :

                                                            is
sciousness             circumscribed portion, while that which we

think of as unconscious or physical,                                           simply that which lies
outside the circumscribed portion called consciousness. Thus

regarding the matter we shall not be perplexed by the supposed

impossibility of the transformation of the physical into the

psychical.
      am, as say, obliged to you for pointing out these incon-
I
            I

gruities of statement, and will take care in subsequent editions

to modify the expressions so as to avoid them.

The passages referred to were modified in subsequent

editions. As regards the above letter, Professor Hoffding

informed      "tahnedpcraensennott  writer in            1904 that he could    not  at
the time,                           yet find             quite clear."
                                                     it

After spending August, 1875, at Ardtornish, he went to

Llandudno. The day after his arrival he wrote to his late

hostess.
1874-77] Distaste for Honours and Ceremonial 181

                    To MRS. SMITH.

                    LLANDUDNO, 29 August, 1875.

     I need not say literally where I am I say it pictorially.
The representation serves a further purpose ; that of showing
you how judiciously I let myself down gently from the glories
of Scotch scenery to the ugliness of London streets. The
contrast would be too violent without the intermediate

picturesquesness.
    I did  not reach this till yesterday a         later than I in-
           This was all due to the crowded  day     of the " lona."
tended.                                     state

How so ? you will ask. Well, the sequence is not very mani-
fest, but it happened thus. The multitude of passengers led
to a crush at dinner ; the crush involved difficulty in getting
what was asked for ; inability to get whisky led me to take
beer ; the beer gave me a headache ; the headache made me
decide that I was unlit for a night journey ; this decision deter-
mined my stay in Glasgow for the night, and hence I could not
take the Liverpool route and had to come by Chester. So you
see the causation is quite clear almost as clear as that which
I was thinking of the other day when lying on the river-bank
ac Acharn after eating my lunch ; namely, that had not Mr.
Smith seen the advertisement of the Achranich estate, the

thoughts of a good many people in America, France, Germany,
Italy, Russia and other places would not have been quite the

same.

                               To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                       29 November, 1875.

     The new edition of Bain has reached me. 1 I think it greatly
improved and though he takes to the doctrine of Evolution in
rather a gingerly way, still, he has made a great step for one
brought up under the regime of pure empiricism. The book is
admirable from a natural history point of view. I met recently
a very promising young biologist, Mr. Romanes, who had been
making some important and highly instructive researches on
the nervo-muscular actions of the medusa?. He brings out
facts which he says justify in a most remarkable manner the

speculations respecting the genesis of the nervous system set
forth in the fifth part of the Psychology.

When intimating his approaching marriage, which was

to take   place in   the Jerusalem   Chamber, Westminster
Abbey,   Professor  Tyndall wrote :   " I should like to see

you, but you may have scruples that 1 know not of. So I

The Emotions and the Will. Compare Bain's Autobiography, p. 324.
r 82 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xiv.

shall not be angry if you abandon me." And abandon his
friend he did, though not without a wrench.

                       To JOHX TYXDALL.

                                                          24 February, 1876.

I wish you were going to be married by registrar. It would
delight me extremely on all accounts, and I would, in such case,

travel from John    o'Groats to  be with you.      to  reconcile  myself
     But as it is                repeatedly tried
                   Well, I have
to the idea of being present, but without success.
Pray forgive me. None the less heartily shall I wish you
every happy sequence to the wedding, though I am not present

at it.

     In February, 1876, lie was elected a foreign corre-
spondent of the Accademia dei Lincei.

To THE COUNCIL OF THE REALE ACCAUEMIA DEI LIXCEI.

                                                   11 March, 1876.

The diploma and accompanying letter, informing me of my
election to foreign membership of the Roman Academy, reached
me a few days since.
That this recognition by the countrymen of Galileo, and by
the members of a learned body which dates from his time, is

a source of gratification to me a gratification in large measure
due to the implied fact that the views with which I am identi-

fied are obtaining attention scarcely needs saying.
Of course, along with this satisfaction of an impersonal kind,
there is joined some personal satisfaction ; it is impossible for
me not to receive pleasure from a mark of esteem given by so
select a society. This expression of pleasure I desire to empha-
size the more, because I must join with it the explanation that
I have, up to the present time, not availed myself of any scientific
distinctions, or marks of honour of a kindred kind. I entertain
the belief that all titles which are not descriptive of functions,
are, in the end, injurious that the effects which seem directly
beneficial are more than counter-balanced by indirect effects

that are detrimental.
Too large a space would be required were I to state in full
the reasons which have forced this belief upon me and have led
me to decline scientific honours in England. I may, however,
give the chief reason by quoting a passage from my reply to
the President of the Royal Society, on the last occasion on
which I was invited to become a candidate for fellowship
p. 169, paragraph beginning " Other reasons"].                    [see

The conviction which prompted me to take the course
thus intimated, not with respect to the title of F.R.S. only, but
1874-77] Distaste for Honours and Ceremonial 483

with respect to other titles, is one which I still entertain, and
in conformity with which I must continue to act.
it                                                              therefore,
     is
                                                                          is

                                                                                 If,
                                                                                                  it
observed that on the title-pages of my books, my name
appears without intimation of that corresponding membership
which the Roman Academy has honoured me by according,
must be observed that its absence
                                                           accompanied by the
absence of all other titles.

     In the following year, under the impression that the

Roman Academy had not conferred upon him the highest
honour in its power, he addressed the Secretary (24 Sep-
tember, 1877), requesting his name to be removed.

Being, as implied by the facts                             named, indifferent to
if
       I

                                              ?

                             I
                                          I it
                                                      I
academic honours in general, may naturally be supposed that
honours of the first class did not effectually attract me,
honours of an inferior class would be wholly unattractive. . . .
...Had understood the matter at the time when received the
offer of the distinction                                   I
                                                                        I
                              should without hesitation have
declined it. What should at once have done then, am
anxious to do now without further delay. Will you therefore
oblige by directing that my name be erased from your list, and
that any other steps requisite for cancelling my election be
taken forthwith

     Signor Quinto Sella, the President of                 the     Academy,
hastened to remove the misapprehension.
                                                            "   Your letter

"Iimpressed me painfully" (he wrote October
                                                           i,   1877).

fear you have thought that the Fellows of the Roman

Academy have not for you and your highest services to

science and humanity the esteem that you and they deserve.

But such thought              quite contrary to the truth." The
                   a
                                       is
                                                        a
distinction between sod stranieri and sod correspondenti did

not, he explained, indicate the Academy's estimate of scien-

tific merit. By its statutes the number of sod stranieri was

limited to ten, and there was natural wish, not duty, to
                                                           if

                                                                       a

show special recognition in the first place, to those who had

devoted themselves to old Roman history, institutions, and

lIatanlgyu. age",  or who had rendered important services       to modern
                   The task was easier for the election of      the corres-

pondenti. The number greater, and they are divided by
                              is
                                                  7,
the statutes between the different branches of knowledge.

The first election of correspondenti stranieri in the class of

moral sciences ended February                              1876. Three Fellows
184          Life of Herbert Spencer  [CHAP. xiv.

were to be elected, one for historical, one for philosophical,
and one for social and political sciences. Your name came

out in the first election with the utmost votes, i.e., seventeen

votes upon twenty-one voters scattered in the different parts
of Italy." An election with such a result, Signer Sella con-
sidered so high an honour, that he felt justified in urging
Spencer not to insist on the purpose expressed in his letter

of September 24. His retirement would "give to the dis-
tinction between sod stranieri and correspondents a character

which is not the intention of the Fellows of the Academy,"
and would " be the source of troublesome embarrassment.

Certainly your wish is not to damage those who honestly

intended to show to you their highest esteem." Signer Sella

added that he had requested a colleague of the Academy,

the Marquis Menabrea, the Italian Ambassador, to seek an

interview with Spencer in order to remove the erroneous

impression.

             To QUINTO SELLA.         October, 1877.

     When proposing to take the step indicated in my recent
letter, which seemed to me called for by regard for my position,
I did not, of course, wish in any way to give offence to the
members of the Roman Academy, still less to entail on them any
such difficulty with respect to the distinction of classes as that
which your letter of the 1st indicates ; and I should regret to
pursue a course which should have these results. . . .

     Your letter by its details sufficiently shows me that there
was not on the part of the Roman Academy any intention
to make such a distinction as that which the classification
nominally expresses. . . .

     As, however, I should be reluctant to create any disagree-
able feeling and further difficulty, and as I gather from General
Menabrea that this inclusion in the second class is not likely to
be permanent, I yield to your representations and agree not
further to press the request made in my letter to you.

     In July of the following year he was transferred to the

class of sod stranieri.

     He had been invited in 1874 to stand for the Lord
Rectorship of the University of Edinburgh, and in the
following year for that of Aberdeen. Though in both cases
he declined the honour, his refusal was not so unqualified
as in the case of St. Andrews. In his reply to the overtures

from Edinburgh he said :
1874-77] Distaste for Honours and Ceremonial 185

a

      If,
                                                   I
          as seems not improbable, should, in years to come, beI
capable of undertaking more work than at present, might,          I
should the wish be expressed by many of the students, assent to

   nomination as candidate for the Rectorship, and in the event
of being honoured by their choice, should gladly avail myself
of the opportunity afforded of doing what could towards
educational reform.

    To the Aberdeen Committee his answer was more en-

couraging still
AI
     Ishould like very much to respond affirmatively to your

                                     :
question and to accept the implied invitation of your fellow-
students. There are some views fit for an inaugural address,
which should gladly find an occasion to set forth.
                                                                  I                                             must,

however resist the temptation.

         renewal in October, 1876, of an invitation to lecture
at the Royal Institution met with the same response as

before.

As years go by feel more and more that life short and         is
is

         I
             I

                                 .
philosophy long. . . Were there no such reason should
                                                                  I
                                                                     I
very willingly yield to your suggestion, and          if      decline must
                                                        I

beg you to interpret my decision as entirely due to this peremp-
tory requirement that shall economize my time and energies
to the uttermost.

Ceremonial functions had no attractions for him. To-

wards some of them he had indeed an invincible repug-

nance, nurtured in early life by the precept and example

of his father, and adhered               to in after life on  principle. In
May, 1874, he was invited               to an " At Home "     at the Foreign
Office, "To have the honour of meeting His Majesty the
Emperor of Russia " but regretted that he could not avail
                                        ;

                                                 is
                                                                               a
                                                                                                             a
himself of the invitation. " The necessity of wearing levee

dress, to which Mr. Spencer has an insuperable objection,

compels him to decline the offered pleasure." On being

informed that Lady Derby would be sorry to be deprived of

the pleasure of his company from question of costume,

and suggesting that he might come in ordinary evening

dress, he wrote again.

     Mr. Herbert Spencer greatly indebted to the Countess of
Derby for her kind concession. Not having foreseen any such
1 86  Life of Herbert Spencer  CHAP. xiv.

 contingency, Mr. Spencer finds himself in a position for which
 he was not prepared.

     While in the habit of disregarding conventions in ways not
 too obtrusive, Mr. Spencer feels that to make himself a solitary

 exception in so conspicuous a manner on such an occasion
would be even more repugnant to him than conformity itself.
 Further, he sees that his act, inevitably ascribed to other
motives than the true one, would subject him to the disagreeable
comments which a wrong interpretation would excite. Thus
explaining his difficulty, Mr. Spencer hopes that the Countess

of Derby will not regard him as perverse if he does not avail
himself of her kind permission. . . .

      Fearing lest his course may seem to imply an undervaluation
of the privilege conceded, Mr. Spencer yet trusts that the least
unfavourable construction will be put upon it.

     A few extracts may be given from a memorandum of his
doings during the holiday of 1876 :

     July 22. Corran Ferry. Read by daylight at 10 at night.
     August 5. Reached the Dell. While at the Dell continued
reading McLennan.
      16. Left for Kingussie and Fort William.
      17. Drive from Banavie to Arisaig the most beautiful
drive in the kingdom, as far as I have seen.
     24. Reached Mrs. Mitchell's at Laidlawstiel. Stayed till
August 31. Walking, talking, driving, playing lawn tennis, and
making memoranda of Domestic Institutions.

                                  To MRS. HOLT.

                                           Steamer u /o//a," 22 August, 1876.
     I am, as you see, on my way south. The fishing [on the
River Morar] was a delusion. The alleged 2\ miles of river
specified in the Sportsman's Guide dwindled to 1 mile. I
gathered on approaching the place that only half a mile was
worth fishing ; and on inspection this half mile shrank to 150
yards ! Further, in this 150 yards there were but three practicable
casts ; and in all but one of these, you were more likely than
not to lose your salmon when you had hooked him ! When
with this was joined the lowness of the water and the continual
fineness of the weather, you may understand why I so soon
changed my address.
     I had, however, some compensation in the beauty of the
scenery my journey carried me through. Though the cost of
posting more that forty miles gave me a prospective pain in the
pocket, yet I was quite reconciled by what I saw. The drive
from Banavie to Arisaig exceeds in number and variety of pic-
turesque views any drive in Scotland I have seen ; and that is
1874-77] Distaste for Honours and Ceremonial 187

saying a great deal. If you should ever be in that region, pray
do not forget it. I am about to write to my friends at Ard-

tornish, suggesting that they should go in their yacht to Banavie,
drive across, and be taken up by it on the other side.

     Early in 1874 Spencer had urged, as a reason for Dr.
Youmans coming to London, that the International Scien-
tific Series " evidently wants a spur some of the authors

are lagging, and it is quite time that measures were taken for

finding successors to them." A difference of opinion had

also arisen between the publishers and the London Com-

mittee. The relations of this Committee to the publishers

on the one hand and to authors on the other had never
been defined. According to Spencer, " we are bound as a

...Committee to see that the understanding with authors who
wrote for the series should be fulfilled.        I shall have

a talk with Huxley  and Tyndall upon     it."     Dr. Youmans
reminded him that   Professors Huxley  and     Tyndall " at the

outset declined to have anything to do with the matter if it

involved the slightest correspondence or business, or any-

thing more than the giving of an opinion now and then in

regard to the competency of writers. So, to protect the

Committee from annoyance that would have been sure to

follow publicity, I carefully refrained from having their

names published." He feared, therefore, that any attempt
to get them to move in the matter " might lose us the

moderate benefits we now derive from them." Dr. You-

mans had already begun to weary of an enterprise which
at the outset was so full of promise. " The ' Series ' seems

to be in a very bad way (internationally), and I don't know

but we shall have to let it go ; it was a quixotic project and

I doubt if it is worth much further attention."

                    To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                           7 October, 1876.

I daresay you have observed in the two last numbers of

the Contemporary Review two ferocious and utterly unscrupulous
attacks on Huxley, Tyndall, and myself by Dr. Elam. The
misrepresentations are throughout of the most unblushing kind.
I was very nearly in the last number publishing a brief letter

giving a sample, and indicating others, but was dissuaded by
Tyndall and Lewes from taking notice of them. He evidently
was shown a proof of my letter before I withdrew
                                                  it,  and has

in consequence put an apology to his second article an
1 88 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xiv.

apology, however, which really, unawares, commits him to a
still more serious predicament. It is possible that I may still

t"akEethiucps  the  mTahtteeorloigniaansge" neorar l  article under  the title of the
                of                                    the " Ways     of Theological

Critics," giving examples from Kirkman, Mivart, Elam, and
probably also from Canon Birks, who, I see, has just announced
a book in which he avowedly makes an attack on First

Principles.

     The purport of the letter referred to, which was with-
drawn after he had corrected the proof, may be gathered
from the following sentences :

Much space would be required to expose all Dr. Elam's
misrepresentations. I should have to instance words put within
quotation-marks in such a manner as to seem mine, which are
not mine. I should have to instance sentences quoted alone,
which derive all their significance from the adjacent sentences
omitted. I should have to instance cases where that which is

shown by the context to be a supposition              is             by detachment
                                                          a
from the context, made to appear an affirmation.
                                                               is,
     When on visit to Mr. and Mrs. Potter in November
Spencer saw good deal of Bishop Ellicott, for whom he
had great regard.
a
                  aa

                       To E. L. YOUMANS,

                                                      25 November, 1876.

You would have been amused had you heard the conversa-
tion. As was saying afterwards, he
               I                                                  typical sample of

religious opinions of the advanced type at the present time,
which reminds me very much of the condition of piece of
furniture that has been attacked by white ants, which are said       aa
to honeycomb and eat out all the interior, and leave the exterior

apparently unchanged the result being that eventually the
whole thing some day suddenly conies down with crash.

The first volume of the Sociology would before now have

been completed but for the fact that as he proceeded                            it

dawned upon him that he had made serious omission in
                                                      ;a
not having included "Domestic Relations" in his original

scheme. He had been working at this since some time

before he went on his holiday in 1876 but the subject had
grown upon him,        and November found him
the end. He was        " undecided what to do.                       some way   from
                                                                     There are   four

chapters which ought to add to the part on Domestic                  '

                    I
1874-77] Distaste for Honours and Ceremonial 189

Relation ' to complete all that I intended to say, and which

seem to be called for by the requirements of the subject."
Nevertheless, he decided to issue the volume in December
without these four chapters. Exaggerated rumours about

his health had spread both here and in America, calling
forth many letters of sympathy : one being from Professor
Bain, who was himself the object of regretful references
in the United States early in the following year.

                                        FROM E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                           9 February, 1877.

   We had a great scare about the death of Bain. It was

cabled over, and as there was no Alexander Bain in the

Cyclopaedias but him of Aberdeen, our friend was obituarized
next morning in all the papers of the country. We all felt very
badly about  of course, and wrote an elaborate leading
   I

              1

                     it,

                                it
                                          I
article for the Monthly, which was just ready to stereotype,
when we learned that was the wrong man. wrote to Bain
                                                             it I
that was quite disgusted at having to throw away so much                 II
excellent work, and cudgel out something else at the last

moment.

                                        To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                             14 March, 1877.

        write immediately on the receipt of your letter, which
is
reached me this morning, apropos             o" f      your remarks concerning
    IAppleton's article on u Copyright                 in the Fortnightly. Pray
          it a

             It

                       is
                                  ; is
write brief letter to the Fortnightly rectifying his misstate-
ments.
             important to do so especially at the present
moment. There now sitting Copyright Committee which
                                        it

                                             is

                                                   Ia
   entertaining some most monstrous proposals, going far to
                                           needful to do everything which
abolish copyright and

tends to resist these proposals.                       am myself giving evidence

before   have given part and have yet more to give.                          hope

we shall succeed in smashing the scheme, but will not do to

let any effort be neglected.            2

   26 May.   ought to have written sooner. . . . But have
             I
                   I
been very shaky. have had to postpone many things. Among
other distractions there has been the need for rectifying Tylor's
statement in Mind [April, 1877], and there has also been the
need for replying to McLennan's two articles in the Fortnightly,

      The Alexander Bain who died in 1877 was the author of several1
important telegraphic inventions.

       Various Fragments, p. 18.
190 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xiv.

which I have done in some papers appended to the last of
them. Yesterday I took to the printers the last few pages
of the Sociology, all which will be in type this evening.

With a view to remove the impression conveyed in

Mind that in his Ghost theory he had adopted Mr. Tylor's

views and had done so without acknowledgment, Spencer

sent the editor a few pages for the next number, showing

that he had not adopted Mr. Tylor's opinions. The

correspondence with Professor Groom Robertson, the

editor, continued till about the middle of June, 1 Spencer's

replies being sent to Mr. Tylor before publication, and Mr.

Tylor's to Spencer. In June Spencer writes: "My reply

to Mr. Tylor, . . . while I think it completely rebuts his

charges, establishes more clearly than before my own

independence, and brings out with increased distinctness

the inconsistencies in Mr. Tylor's statements of his own

views." When forwarding this to Mr. Tylor, the editor
expressed the opinion that Spencer " does in his second

rejoinder establish his independence, and I shall be very
                                                    To the same
glad    if the controversy  can    be  dropped."
effect    a few days later              will let  me repeat my
                               "  You

                            :

opinion that in the statement Spencer establishes his

independence, and I confess I shall be somewhat surprised

if you can bring decisive evidence to the contrary. If you

cannot, I am still of the same opinion I before expressed

that you can, when there is no question as to your indepen-

dence, well afford to make a frank allowance of his."

Apparently    this was   what Mr. Tylor did not    see his way
to. " My    belief," he  wrote, " is strengthened  the more I

examine Spencer's writings, that his memory quite misleads

him about where he gets his ideas."

The additional chapters of the first volume of the

Sociology being off his mind only a short time before the

end of May, it was a question how to spend to best

advantage the weeks intervening between then and his

annual holiday. Having as yet made no plans, a letter

from Mrs. Smith inviting him to Ardtornish was welcomed.

His stay there from the middle of August to the middle of

            1 Mind lor July, pp. 415-29.
1874-77] Distaste for Honours and Ceremonial 191

September fully realised his expectations as to enjoyment
and health.

                                  To Mrs. SMITH.

                                                        LONDON, 17 September, 1877.

     I may say that I think I am stronger than I have been since
this time last year. Thanks in great measure, and I think
chiefly, to Ardtornish and all its pleasures, indoor and outdoor,
for this. Again I have to thank you for many happy days
in addition to those enjoyed in years gone by. Should any one
hereafter use the materials of a biographical kind which will be
left behind me, he will probably hnd clear enough evidence
that the most of the happiest days of my life have been spent at
Ardtornish. And not only in respect of pleasure and health,
but, as a consequence, in respect of working power, I feel
my indebtedness. As with parents it ultimately becomes the
chief object of life to rear their children and put them
forward prosperously in the world, so, as an author's life
advances, the almost exclusive object of anxiety becomes the
fulfilment of his literary aims the rearing of the progeny of

the brain.

The needful data for " Political Institutions " not being

yet ready for use, he  made up his     mind to take     up   the
division dealing with  " Ceremonial,"     publishing  the   suc-

cessive chapters in the Fortnightly Review. By the end of

the year arrangements were being made for their

simultaneous appearance in the United States, France,

Germany, Italy, Russia and Hungary. When 1877 closed,
everything seemed favourable for uninterrupted progress.
                                     192

                            CHAPTER XV.

       THE SECULARIZATION OF MORALS.

                 January, 1878 October, 1879.

     WITH the new year he made another attempt to keep
a diary. The entry on January i, 1878, runs : "'Presents.'

Business. Club. Dined at Huxley's : Morley, Waller, Mr.
Smalley." The entry " Presents," referring to the chapter
so headed in " Ceremonial Government," occurs for the first

eight  day"sU, newxceellpt  the 5th  and   6th, when  he was revising.
Ninth                       in bed    all  morning.    Dictated intro-

duction to 'Consciousness under Chloroform/ and memo.
for Principles of Morality." Ethics was entered upon just

now in the fear, as stated in the Autobiography (ii., 314), that

he might never reach it in the ordinary course.
     On the 1 3th began what he describes as " about the

most miserable time that I can recall in my experience."

     13th. Wretched night pain and no sleep. Indoors all day
after getting up at 1. Rather better in evening. Mr. Bruce
came in the morning and prescribed. 14th. Wretched night.
No sleep, but less pain. Indoors all day. No appetite. Sciatica,
&c., pretty well gone. 15th. Another dreadful night. Only
sleep was while sitting in a chair by the fire in the middle of the
night. 16th. Wretched night. Took chloral. Very weak. In
bed all day. No sleep. Little better appetite. 17th. Hor-
rible night again. Better, however. Down room after break-
fast. Revised some proofs by hearing them read. Walshe
came to consult. Appetite better. Lord A. Russell called.
18th. Bad night again after taking quinine. Revising proofs
by hearing read. A little appetite. Temperature still too high.
19th. Another wretched night. Finished proofs. Walshe came
again. Gave up quinine and prescribed bromide of potassium.
Lewes called. 20th. Better night. A little work revising.
Lewes called to see me. Temperature still too high. 21st.

       NOTE. Autobiography, ii., chaps, liv., lv., Ivi.
1878-79]        The Secularization of Morals                        193

Still better night. Revising. Sent proofs of Chapter III. to

translators. Lewes and Mrs. Lewes called and spent an hour.
Temperature lowering. 22nd. Very good night. Improved
generally. Letters and dictating Autobiography. Temperature
lowering. 23rd. Night not so good. Temperature nearly
normal. Appetite fair. At 4.30 left Victoria Brighton at 5.30.
Reached Bristol Hotel without damage. Slept fairly by aid of
chloric ether.

     He remained at Brighton for over a week, improving

daily. On return he plunged at once into social engage-

ments. The social distraction cure had long been a favourite

remedy, and he seemed bent on now giving it a fair trial.
In the diary for March one reads: " Called on Mr. Glad-
stone, Sir H. Thompson and Mrs. Smith." " Fancy ball
                                            "oEn.x"hib"itiGoanietoyf
at the Huths. Went in plain  dress to look
Theatre." " Globe Theatre."
                             "X dinner."

Old  Paintings  at Royal Academy." Another visit to Brighton.
A"   Paper by   Bell at Anthropological on the Gesture-Lan-
               Deaf Mutes." " Dined with Debus
guage   of  "  Went to Hemming's for billiards."                    at the Saville
                                                                      " Afternoon
Club."

concert . . . pupils of Blind School." It was the same

during April. One day he lunched with the Leweses,

afterwards going with them to Herschel's concert ; another

day he dined at A. Sellar's, where he met Mr. Grant Duff,

Smalley, and T. Sellar. On the I2th he wrote a letter to

Mr. Fronde for Edinburgh Review about copyright. On the
1 6th he gave a dinner at the Club to " F. Harrison, Morley,
Pelly, Busk, Debus, Rutson and Frankland." Two days

after he went to Standish, where he stayed a week, unwell

most of the time. To the Adelphi Theatre on his birth-

day; to the wedding breakfast of Professor Huxley's eldest

daughter on 4th May. Took Mr. Lott to the Royal Academy
on i yth ; and on evening of same day "dined at Spottis-
woode's and went with them to the R.I. to hear Graham

Bell." Next day he was off to Paris with Mr. Lott, taking

with him a little  work to   re"viDsein. edOnche2z4thBracablalendt  on Bailliere,
the publisher.     Next day                                         with a party

of 1 6 professors, journalists and deputies, invited by Bailliere

to meet me." Replying to the toast of his health he proposed

"The Fraternity of the two nations," commenting on the

great importance of cordial relations between France and

England.
194          Life of Herbert Spencer                       [CHAP. xv.

     By the month  of June he had come             to the  conclusion
that the interest  shown in the articles            on "   Ceremonial

Government" was not sufficient to justify their continuance

in   the   Fortnightly. The  ofcotnhcelu"diDnagta  chapter was    begun,
but   put  aside in favour                           of Ethics,"  several

chapters of which were now rough sketched in Kensington

Gardens. Of this he writes to Dr. Youmans (5 July) :

     I am quite satisfied with the working out of it ; and when
issued it will be a good piece of work done, and will, more-
over, I think, be useful for the cause at large, as showing its
moral bearings, and as disposing pretty effectually of all those
reprobatory views which the theological party continually utter.
I hope to begin writing it soon after my return to town in

the autumn.

     The following are further extracts from the diary :

     2nd July. Italian Ambassador called to say that the
Roman Academy had elected me a member. 5th. To Kew
to Hooker's garden party. Dined with Potters to meet Prof.
Marsh. 6th. Gave picnic at St. George's Hill, Weybridge, to
four Potters, two Busks, two Harrisons, two Crosses, Lewes,
Prof. Marsh. Tea at Oatlands. Went off very well. 14th.
Called to enquire of Mrs. Smith not likely to live through the
day. 16th. Dined with Sir H. Thompson : Huxley, Trollope,
Lord A. Russell, Prinsep, Knowles, Marks, &c.

     The death of Mrs. Smith must have brought vividly to

his mind the shock he    h""aTtdhhaeet xtcphoeenrsiefcrniioecuensddnleyisnsg/r'a18sh7pe1,otfhwehhniesnwhraohnteder

husband passed away.
to Mr. Valentine Smith,

is one that I shall never again feel, already makes, and will

continue to make, an appreciable difference in my world of

thought." x

                        To W. VALENTINE SMITH.

                                                                          18 July, 1878.

     I sympathize deeply in your feelings and in those of the
family at large, and I enter the more into your griefs, as Mrs.
Smith's death is a grief to me also. By her countless kind-
nesses, she is associated in my thoughts with my happiest
days ; 'and the world is the poorer to me, now that she has
passed ^away from it.

                   1 Autobiography, ii., 229.
1878-79]     The. Secularization of Morals                                   195

     As you well know, I am not given to exaggerations ; so
that I may be understood literally when I say that in all my
experience I have known no one so svveet-natured, and in all
ways so admirable, as your mother. There would be some-
tohf inHgumlikaenitayju"stifiifcathteioren  for the Comtist religion  "the
                                            were much humanity like          worship
                                                                      hers.

     Leaving town in the last week of July he spent a few
days in Liverpool with Mr. and Mrs. Holt, and then went
to Inveroran. The weather being too dry for fishing, the

first eleven days of August were spent in rambling, revising,
and reading Bain's Mental and Moral Science. Note the

boyish satisfaction implied in the concluding remark in the
diary for each of the next three days :

     12th. Fishing. River up. Got two salmon : one of
20 Ibs. weight, one of 12 Ibs. Three other fishermen caught
nothing. 13th. Fishing. A flood. One grilse of 5 Ibs.
Three other fishermen caught nothing. 14th. Fishing. No
sport. Three other fishermen caught nothing. 17th. Reading
and revising in the morning. Afternoon at 3.30 began fishing.
Lost four salmon in succession.

     He was back  in London                 on the   23rd, at  least two weeks
earlier than he   intended.                  " My   holiday    has not been a

success," he writes to Dr. Youmans from Carlisle on his
way south, sending him also the paper on " Consciousness

under Chloroform," being the experiences of a university

graduate under chloroform, to which Spencer began dictat-

ing on 9th January what he calls an introduction, but which

was really an appendix or summing up, showing how those

experiences "furnished remarkable verification of certain

doctrines set forth in the Principles of Psychology." '
     On the                                 he wrote to Professor Tyndall,
who was in   3SrwditSzeerplatenmd be: r"    I send you from to-day's Times

a leading article containing a passage which concerns you

and which, being considerably to your disadvantage, alike

as a man of science and as a logician, I think you ought to

rectify." Taking as its text an address by Virchow on the

necessity of caution in receiving and still more in teaching

1 Mind for October, 1878. Also Popular Science Monthly for
October. Principles of Psychology,
                                            i.,  636.
196              Life of Herbert Spencer            [CHAP. xv.

to the young some of the doctrines of modern science, the

Times, maintained that such problems should be reserved
for one who will " devote himself to research in silence."

Professor Tyndall does not appear to have responded to

Spencer's suggestion ; but the article led to letters in the

Times from Prof. Ray   Lankester and Mr. Richard    Proctor.
     While engaged in  putting the rough sketch of  the " Data

of Ethics" into shape, he had been trying to persuade

Dr. Youmans to join him in a proposed sojourn in the

south of France.

                  To E. L. YOUMANS.

                       27 September, 1878.

...I intend to take with me a good quantity of MS. to occupy
me in revision.   If you could make up your mind to come

with me and do a little idling in pleasant places, I am con-
vinced that you will find it in the long run a great economy of
time. As to not seeing how such things are possible, I hold it
to be an instance of the absurd fanaticism of men like yourself,
who think that the one thing impossible is to let business go,

and that the only thing possible is to sacrifice health and life

to it.

    30 October. My going abroad will very much be determined
by your answer. . . . For once in your life resolve to take a
little leisure and relaxation. You have not so very great a
length of life left that you can with wisdom put it off. You
should remember that you have not only got to do your work,
but you have got to live ; and, ever since I have known you, you

...have been thinking only of the work and never of the living.
       I hope you will be able to arrange for your sister to come
with you.

    A few weeks before starting for the south of France,

he had to mourn the loss of his oldest intimate literary
friend Mr. G. H. Lewes to whose burial he went on
December 4th. This (like the funeral of Mr. Octavius
Smith in 1871) was one of the few instances in which
he made an exception to his usual practice of avoiding

funerals. 1

     Spencer and Dr. Youmans left London a few days
before Christmas. Their time on the Riviera was divided

                  1 Autobiography, ii., 318.
1878-79]       Tke Secularization of Morals         197

between Hyeres, Cannes, Nice, Cimiez, and Mentone.
Mentone " is a charming place, far preferable to any of the
others along the Riviera. . . . The multiplicity of beautiful

walks is almost incomprehensible how so much can be
put in so small a space. The place, however, like nearly all

the others in that region (I except Cimiez), is decidedly
relaxing." From Mentone excursions were made to
Ventimiglia, Bordighera, San Remo, Monaco and Monte

Carlo. Here are some of the entries from the diary :

     9 January, 1879. Rained at night and all day. Very cold
   could not keep warm with fire in room night and day.
Revising. Indoors all day. One day. Excursion up one of
the valleys, Youmans on an ass, I walking. Next day. Long
walk with Oscar Browning and Youmans. Another day. Wet
night and rainy day. A good deal of revising, very little

walking. Returned Lord Acton's call. Feb. llth. Finished all
my revising. 14th. Wet morning. Reading Sidgwick. Found
that Lord Acton had called with Sig. Minghetti. Returned
Sig. Minghetti's call out. 15th. Went to station 10.40. Lord

Acton brought Sig. Minghetti and M. Lavallie to the station to
introduce, just before I started. Left at 11. Dined at Marseilles
about six. Travelled in the Wagon-lit. Got very little sleep.
16th. Reached Paris at 10, not much the worse. . . . Youmans
exhausted. 17th. Called on Bailliere and arranged about the
translation of Ethics and retranslation of Education. Left Paris
at 1.20. Got home at 11. 30. 1

but  Hitherto  he had escaped  :  the   attentions    of Vanity Fair,
      on 30    April he wrote                       laugh at Vanity
                                    "  You will

Fair which I send you, and in which I am gibbeted this

week. The biographical sketch is about as absurd as the

portrait."

     While correcting proofs of the .last chapters of the
"Data of Ethics" he spent a few days at Wilton. The

diary runs :

   9th June. Got to Wilton at 5. Cordially received by Lord
and Lady Pembroke. Guests : Hon. S. Littleton, Mr. Wheatley.
10th. Revising proofs. Walking. Afternoon played lawn

     1 For an account of the journey to and sojourn in the south of France
from his companion's point of view, the reader is referred to Dr. Youmans's
racy letters to members of his family, printed in Edward Livingston
Youmans, pp. 350-61.
198       Life of Herbert Spencer                 [CHAP. xv.

tennis. Drove with Lady Pembroke and her sister. Lord
and Lady Vesey arrived, and Mr. Val Prinsep. llth. Bad
morning : lounged and talked. Afternoon took a long walk
alone to escape talking. Lady Lothian, sister of Lady Pem-
broke, arrived a disciple of mine. 12th. Bad day. Lounging
and talking. Afternoon walked and played lawn tennis. Mr.
and Lady Constance Lawley, a disciple of mine, came.

               To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                            20 June, 1879.
The " Data of  Ethics " was issued on Tuesday. .
               cultivate a more u devil-may-care  ." .  attitude
If you could
of mind, it would be a very good thing for you, and would
eventually conduce to doing a great deal more. Now that
I am not with you and cannot play the bully over you daily,
I see you are relapsing into your old malpractices. . . . How-
ever, it is no use saying anything.

     Dr. Youmans intended to write an introduction to the
American edition of the " Data of Ethics," so as to " give

a pretext to copyrighting and at all events mark as
kind of authorized edition that could not be fully repro-

duced. . have worked upon the matter, though the result
will not answer." The proposed introduction was after-

wards amplified and altered, and appeared as an article in
the North American Review for August. At home the book
was welcomed with many private expressions of approval.
       .                                                           it
                                                                           Ia
            I
                                       it,

          FROM WILLIAM E. H. LECKY.

                                            20 June, 1879.

       am glad to gather from your prospectus that you mean
I
in the ensuing parts to deal with the different groups or
classes of virtues separately, describing, no doubt, their genesis,a
their relations to one another, their limitations and their
proportionate value. Most books on moral philosophy seem
to me almost worthless because they do not deal sufficiently in
the concrete, do not divide or distinguish the different kinds
of moral action and show how frequently they conflict with one
another, and how trains of circumstances which foster one

...class of virtues will often inevitably depress another.
think     great deal has still to be written on the filiation of

moral qualities, on the history of moral types the proportionate
value which different qualities bear in the ideals of different

ages.
1878-79]  The Secularization of Morals                                               199

                                     FROM MRS. LEWES.
                                                                         27 June, 1879.

     I rejoice not in the cause, but in the fact of your having
broken the contemplated order of your series for the sake
of securing this portion of your Ethics, and if I did not
believe it to be an impertinence to tell an author what one
would wish him to do, I should say a little more of the value
that many would attach to a continuation of this weft as
something more needed than even the completion of the
Sociological portion. Of course, as you predict, you will be
partly misunderstood and misrepresented. That is destiny
unshunnable. All one must care about is that some grains of
corrective knowledge or useful stimulus will be here and there
swallowed and digested.

     I have an evil pleasure in observing that you have as good
a crop of little misprints as I should have left myself.

          FROM THE EARL OF DERBY.

Lord Derby is glad to have the opportunity...30 June, 1879.
                                                    of express-
ing to Mr. Spencer personally his sense of the intellectual
obligation under which he lies to a writer whose thoughts
he has for many years endeavoured to understand and follow.
It is neither his wish nor his right to pay compliments ; but
he may be allowed to acknowledge a debt.

          FROM ALFRED R. WALLACE.             2 July, 1879.

     I must express my admiration of the complete way in which
you have developed the true nature of Ethics. On that aspect

...of the question I agree with you unhesitatingly throughout.

But I doubt if evolution alone, even as you have exhibited its
action, can account for the development of the advanced and

...enthusiastic altruism that not only exists now, but apparently
has always existed among men.  If on this point I doubt,
on another point I
                                                                                     ev" ecnontyrooul--r
beautiful system of
          a

                              A

                                                                        is,
                                                                                  a
                     feel certain, and that    not
                     ethical science can act  as
ling agency" or in any way "fill up the gap left by the
disappearance of the code of supernatural ethics."

French appreciation of Spencer's writings did not

always take form so agreeable as that described in the

Autobiography (ii. 326).       reactionary member of the

Chamber of Deputies had invoked Spencer's opinion against
one of the two "Lois Ferry" the one excluding from the

superior council of public instruction the representatives
2oo             Life of Herbert Spencer                                             [CHAP. xv.

of the clergy. Spencer mentions this in a letter to Dr.
Youmans (July 26).

     If you happen to see the Times of the 24th (I think it was)
you will see, in the letter of the Paris correspondent, indication
of the fact that, in the Chamber of Deputies, the clerical party
have been trying to support their views by quotations from one
of my books, and that I have had to write to Alglave a letter,
which he has published            Scientifique for July],                           correcting
their misapprehension.   [Revue                                                     rightly re-
                                 Times correspondent
                          The
m" aFrekrsr,y h"owbiellvewr,hicthhatneI gaamtivecsleaprrliyvatoeppionsiteidatioton
                                                                                    that part of  the
                                                                                    of teaching.

     During August and the greater part of September he was

on holiday at Inveroran, Ardtornish, Laidlawstiel, and

Russland.   At Laidlawstiel he had a great deal of discus-
            both Lord and Lady Reay are very stimulating
sion. " As

companions I did an amount of talk which over-tired my

brain."         To Miss FLORA SMITH.

                                              LAIDLAWSTIEL, 9 September, 1879.
     There had been a great clearance here the day before my
arrival chiefly of French friends ; and there remained only Mr.
Rollo Russell, the second of the late Earl's sons. On Sunday

two local notabilities came two of the Cecils, Lord Arthur
and Lord Lionel who have taken to sheep-farming ; one of
them having married the daughter of a Northumberland farmer
under whom they studied farming. They are very pleasant
and intelligent, and surrender themselves completely to their
careers. Since their departure yesterday, I have been the sole

...guest, and have had a dreadful amount of talking to do.
     And now let me say how much I have enjoyed my stay at
Ardtornish more happy days added to the countless happy
days of past years. When I look back on my life, I feel that
the part of it which I would willingly live over again, is the
part made up of my many visits to your Highland home.

     Pray accept, and give to your brother, my thanks for un-
ceasing kind attentions.

     On his return to town what remained of September and

the whole of October were occupied mainly with giving

the  final  touches to   "fCorere"mCoenreiaml onIniasltituGtioovnesr"nm(tehnet")n,amine
he   had    substituted

arranging his memoranda for the next division of the
Sociology, and in writing the first chapter of " Political

Institutions."
1878-79] The Secularization of Morals                                                                        201

                              To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                             1 October, 1879.

     I have already seen the Nation's review [of the "Data of
Ethics."] . . It is not much amiss save in being rather too

jaunty in its style.
     The other reviews have been quite satisfactory the one in
the Pall Mall Gazette and the one in the Academy being, like
that in the Athenceum, careful analyses. I feel alike surprised

and gratified at this new turn reviewers are taking, in occupying
the space not so much in giving their own opinions as in giving
the author's. Bain's review in Mind is just issued, and is
                                   too, essentially analytical, with
extremely satisfactory.            it It,
                                                is
    small amount of criticism expressing no dissent of an impor-
a

                           ;

                 it
                       is
tant kind and, coming as does from an adherent of the old
utilitarian view, and from one who has familiarized himself so
completely with the whole field of Ethics, with all its con-
                              entirely what could wish. He really, think,
troversies,                        I                                                             I
                                           I
behaves very well considering that have on so many occasions
been rather unsparing in my criticisms of him.

         October.             have just received                             volume attacking me,
    6

                    I
                                   it

                                                                              :

                                                                        a
                                                                                is
                                                                                             is
entitled "On Mr. Spencer's Formula of Evolution." You may
judge the character of from my acknowledgment sent to the
author, which was as follows u Mr. Spencer obliged to Mr.
Guthrie for the copy of his work. Mr. Spencer not obliged
to Mr. Guthrie for his elaborate misrepresentations."

         October. Your letter of the 26th has just reached me, and
in the course of two or three hours afterwards, the copy of theit
North American Review. Many thanks for both.It 8
            is                                                                                   am glad you
                                                                             I
                                                                                              it

                                                                                                   is
have made use of the notice which you proposed to affix to the
American edition of the u Data of Ethics." On the whole
more appropriate, and will be of much greater service, where

    is.

                 capitally done,      think, .                            .  TEhtheicsta"kingtheasrelatiotenxst
              initial sentence of  the u Data                                                    I
of  the                            I                                   of
                                                    is                                              is
                                                                                                          a
                                                                    .
between the part and the whole                                       very happy, and especi-

ally true in its relation to the Synthetic Philosophy. was glad
also that you dwelt upon the great perversion of opinion that
has resulted from the strange, almost universal, tendency to
take the negative part of First Principles as the characteristic
part ignoring the positive essential part constituting the theory
         ;
           ;

                       It

                                 is
                                     a

                                                                                if
of evolution.                 wonderful illustration of human perversity.

One never gets over the tendency to suppose that things were

clearly put before people, they will somehow or other see
them but one ever gets repeated proofs that no matter how
conclusive the demonstration, no matter how abundant the
2O2                Life of Herbert Spencer                                             [CHAP. xv.

illustrations, they will persist in some absurd misapprehen-

sion or other.'

     10 October. I enclose you something to astonish you.
Imagine my name being received with cheers at a Church
Congress ! After such a sign of the times as this, what may we
not expect ? The fact may serve you upon occasion to throw
at the heads of your theologians in the United States.

    The enclosure was a report, in the Times of October 10,

of a meeting of the        Cohnurc" hReCliogniogursess   at Swansea,                       at   which
a paper was read                                        Benefits from                          Recent

Science and Research." In the discussion that followed,

the Rev. Professor Watkins, of St. Augustine's College,
Canterbury, speaking of the Evolution theory, said that " he

felt sure that when the history of this century came to be

written from the standpoint of the future, the name of

Herbert Spencer would be found in the very first rank

among English speakers and thinkers (Cheers). In ultimate
principles he differed from Spencer toto coelo, but he was

therefore the more anxious to acknowledge the greatness of

his work and the philosophical spirit in which it had been

conducted." Another clergyman of the Church of England

an  the Principal of St. Aidan's                 College, Birkenhead,                      sent him
      Inaugural Address. " It                                                              greatly I
                                                 will show you how

value your works on Evolution and how deeply I am in-

debted to you in my studies on sociological subjects. . . .

I am not a solitary instance of belief in Evolution among

my confreres in the ministry." From Nonconformists came
similar proofs of an open-mindedness, the absence of which

among the clergy Spencer was too ready to assume.

                             FROM E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                                    29 October, 1879.

     Thanks for the slip, from the Times which did astonish
me. There was an American Church Congress in session
in Albany, and Appleton's country parson, Mr. Wylde, was
secretary of it. Mr. W. H. Appleton posted the slip to him as
soon as it came, and it was passed around and produced a great

    1 About this constant  :co"mWphlaeinttheor fthmatisuisndaejrusstatndreinpgroacohr  misrepresen-
tation a critic remarked                                                               to his critics

or to himself, as  bbeeicnognstihdeeraeudt.h"or  of a system so  liable  to            be  misunder-
stood, may well
1878-79] The Secularisation of Morals  203

deal of gratification. Rev. Mr. Wylde said on his return, u We
are coming over to you just as fast as we can get there."

     What you said about the anti-military movement 1 interested
me much. I have thought a good deal about it. But will it

really be worth while for you to move in the matter ? Will

not the burden of such a thing fall very much on yourself, and
have you an ounce to spare from your legitimate work, which in
the long run must tell more widely and powerfully upon public

sentiment than any organised agitation could do.

     1 In a postcript to letter of October 10, quoted in Autobiography, ii.,

329-30-
                                                    2O4

                    CHAPTER XVI.

                      EGYPT AND AMERICA.

                            (November, 1879 December, 1882.)

     HITHERTO Spencer's farthest journeys abroad had been
the visits to Italy in 1868, and to the south of France in 1878.
His friends in the United States had for years been pressing
him to come to America, but, while continuing to treat
it as a probable event, he had from time to time put it off
on one pretext or another. And now, towards the end
of 1879, he suddenly made up his mind to go not to
America, but to Egypt. This step would, he felt sure,
astonish his friend in New York.

                              To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                        5 November, 1879.

     You will be startled by the intelligence that in a few days
hence I start for Egypt having agreed to join a party up the
Nile. The intention is to be away for four months ; so that it
will probably be the beginning of March before I come back.
I hesitated some days because, not being able to take an
amanuensis, my work will 'be retarded ; for I have no MS.
ready for revision as I had last winter. However, I have
decided that I must revert to primitive practices and be my
own amanuensis while on the Nile ; where, as I hear, there
is pTlehnetyvooluf mleeisuofre". Ceremonial Institutions " will be out of my
hands before I go next Tuesday.

    P.S. I enclose you an inaugural address of Calderwood,
Professor of Moral Philosophy at Edinburgh. It is a piece of
poor fumbling. But it is a good sign of the times.

     The following are extracts from the diary :
     30th October. Went to see Kate Potter about going to
Egypt. 31st. Decided to go to Egypt. 6th November.

          NOTE. Autobiography, ii., chaps. Ivii., Iviii., lix., lx., Ixi., Ixii.
1879-82]         Egypt an(t America                                                   205

Letter from Mrs. Potter proposing that Margaret should go
with me to Egypt. . . . Called on W. Cripps (Margaret's
brother-in-law) to see whether he thought Mrs. Grundy would
frown. He pooh-poohed my qualms. 9th. Finished revising
proofs of "Ceremonial Institutions." George Holme and his son
Charles called and lunched with me. . . . Went to say good-
bye to Huxley, Mrs. Lewes, Busks. . . . Called at Meinert/-
hagens. 10th. Final preparations. Seeing last revise. 14th.

Got to Bologna. 15th. Started at 9 sight-seeing. Saw San
Petronio and San Dominico ; the University and the gallery
des Beaux Arts. 16th, Sunday. Went up the great 'tower of
Bologna. Saw more churches. 20th. Arrived at Alexandria.
Took guide and went with Margaret round bazaar. Saw the
remaining obelisk cased for journey to America. 21st. Arrived
at Cairo. After dejeuner saw howling dervish worship. Saw
mosques of Sultan Hassan and Muhammad Ali. Tomb of
kings and cemetery. 26th. Started with party to the Pyramids.
Did not ascend, but perambulated all of them. Examined
various tombs. Much impressed. Day
27th. Arranging memo, for chapter on                                             "toPoblieticarel mOemrgbaenriezad-.
tion." In afternoon walked with Mr. Barnett to old Cairo.

Back on donkeys. 28th. Went to dancing dervishes and to
                            29th. Went with
ancient   mosque salon.  "  Hedwig." 30th.                              our party  to decide  on
boat.    Fixed on the                                                    Saw two   mosques    by

permission ; also Arab University and bazaars. 1st December.
   Moonlight ride with party on donkeys to see the tombs
a
      a8

                                                                T

                                                I (!)

                                                                     is
                                                                                a
of the caliphs. [Mariette Bey was read and re-read during
   visit to Helouan from the 5th to the 9th.] 6th. Wan-

dered over adjacent desert. . . . Struck by marks of denu-

dation. Recent storms and great torrents. 12th. Started
about 11. 13th. Saw the step-pyramid, the tomb of Tih and
the Serapeum. 22nd. Beni- Hassan. Ice on deck fit night.
23rd. Good sailing day. Reached Assiout at about in the
                                                                                   4

morning. Sailing all night that might catch the train and

return. 24th. Bade good-bye to Barnetts and Potters and left
at for Cairo. At 10.15 three carriages thrown off the rails

by buffalo. Started again at 12.15. [This sudden resolve
to return home, of which no mention                                              made in the Autobio-

graphy, was due to his having fallen into                                          state of health such
as that described in the Autobiography,                                            " in which fancies,

afterwards seen to be morbid, took possession of me." After
seeing Dr. Grant and two days' rest at Cairo, the morbid
fancies vanished!] Decided to rejoin my friends. 28th.
Started at     Got to Assiout at  Mr. Miles gone. Taken on
               8.

                         I
                                           :]

                                                             7.
                                                                       a
board the "Vision" by Mr. Darrell. 29th. Telegraphed to
Mr. Barnett that am coming. Blew gale, could not leave
                            on 30th, doing
our moorings.    [Left       the year. In                               forty miles that day, and
twenty the last                                                         the diary for 1880, across
                 day of
the first five days one reads Not having my new diary with
206           Life of Herbert Spencer             [CHAP. xvi.

me, could not fill up these days, during which I was travel-
ling on towards Luxor with Mr. Darrell and Mr. Wroughton.
6th January. Arrived at Luxor at 2 o'clock. Got on board
the " Hedwig." Friends absent. Went to the temple of
Karnak and spent the afternoon there. 8th. Saw the temple

of Esneh. 9th. Saw the temple of Edfou. llth. Assouan.

Went to see the semi-detached obelisk. 13th. Got to Philae.

Scenery around very fine. Interesting day. 14th. Spent day
at Philae and adjacant shores. Disappointed with remains, but
not with the scenery. 16th. Excursion to Assouan and island
of Elephantine. None but small donkeys which I would not
ride, disliking to overtax them. Walked through desert both
ways. 17th. Friends started for second cataract and I went
on board Cook's steamer. Found there Professor Sayce. 20th.

    Across desert to Assouan, partly riding, partly walking.
21st. To Luxor. Went to see Karnak by moonlight. 23rd.
Excursion to Abydos, very instructive, with Professor Sayce as
cicerone. [On the 25th he was at Cairo, where he stayed till
28th, when he went to Alexandria, embarking on 29th for Venice,
which was reached on 4th February.] 5th. Along various
small canals, and saw sundry churches and the Accademia. Up
the Campanile of St. Mark, and gondola round the Giudecca

in afternoon. 6th. Saw Chiesa della Salute, St. Giorgio Mag-
giore, the Arsenal, the north shore of Venice, the Doges'
Palace, and into St. Mark again. 7th. Got to Milan. Glanced
into Duomo and walked about admiring the town. 8th,
Sunday. Heard part of mass in Cathedral. Gallery of the
Brera. Explored town. Evening at La Scala. 9th. Went
to the gallery of paintings at the Brera. Went again to

admire the cathedral. 10th. Reached Paris, llth. Called

on Bailliere, saw Ribot and Marion. 12th. Got to London.

Heartily glad more pleasure than in anything that occurred
during my tour.

His experiences he thus sums up : " At my age I feel

more and more that the game is not worth the candle."
" However, I have gathered some valuable information

and gained some valuable impressions." One of these

impressions he describes with genuine and deep feeling

in the Autobiography (ii., 342).   The materials  he had taken
with him, intending to write      some chapters   of " Political

Institutions" on the Nile, were brought back unused. He

was therefore anxious to go on with this at once, but

hesitated in  view of the need for  adding  to    the  Psychology
a new Part     on " Congruities."
1879-82]            Egypt and America                                    207

                    To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                                     23 February, 1880.

    While I have been away in Egypt my affairs have been
going on swimmingly. . . .
    Ionamwitjhust"  now in     an undecided      state whether forthwith to
go                  Political    Institutions,"  or whether to add a new
                                                     P.ol.*iticaPlosIsnisbtliytutIionmsay"
division to the     Principles of Psychology.     .
first write some    two or three chapters of
                                                 "

which I have pretty well thought out, and which may suffer
by delay, and then turn to this addition to Psychology.

     Dr.  Youmans was decidedly of opinion that the      Psychology
should    be attended to first. " The repetition and
                                                         concert of

attack at this point with no reply are construed as a victory

of criticism. So that just now it seems more important to

strengthen the discussion than extend it. A reply at this

time, and bringing out the congruities you originally thought

of, would be very telling." This advice was not followed,

probably for the     reason given above that his         mind was
already occupied    by the ideas to be set forth in      " Political

Institutions," the earlier chapters of which were written

during the excitement of a general election.

                             To EDWARD LOTT.

                                                                          8 April, 1880.
     Let us shake hands over this immense political change.
I expect you are even more surprised than I have been, judging
from the discouragement you were under when you were with
me. I suspect we have none of us sufficiently appreciated the
great effect of late years produced in divorcing provincial
opinion from London opinion by the growth of the provincial
daily press. The result of this has been that whereas in past
times the provincial towns took their tone from London daily
papers, now they in large measure take their tone from their
own daily papers.

     The chapters he was writing and the political situation
were probably responsible for his again raising the question
of the feeling towards America at the time of the Civil War. 2
Dr. Youmans would fain have shelved the matter altogether,
but, fearing that Spencer would not agree to that, he pleaded

    1 For the omitted portion of the letter see Autobiography, ii., 362.
    2 Supra, chap, xii., p. 145.
2o8              Life of Herbert Spencer  [CHAP. xvi.

for postponement. " There would certainly be less objection

to its publication now than formerly. But there are special

reasons why it should not appear now. The public are

occupied with you now in another relation, and it would

be inexpedient to divide, or divert, attention. I send you

some   papers   illustrative   of the row at Yale College." The
       " had   arisen out     of the use of the Study of Sociology
" row

as a text-book by Professor Sumner ; President Porter

objecting to the use, in a college "intimately associated in

its history and constitution with the Christian religion," of

a book the tone of which was calculated to diminish

respect for Christianity. When the excitement had died
down, the letter was sent to Dr. Youmans "with the com-

mission to give the Tribune the alternative of either publish-

ing it entire or not at all." It appeared in full in the Tribune

of June 28, 1880, accompanied by a dissident leading article,
in which it was said :

     " Any letter which Mr. Herbert Spencer addresses to the
American people will be read with respect and interest. . . .
There is less misconception of the facts, on this side of the
water, than Mr. Spencer imagines. . . . Mr. Spencer's citations
refer to a time so long before the actual outbreak of war that

they cannot be considered of great value. Perhaps we can

best learn the state of English sentiment in 1861 by consulting
an English statesman who knows his countrymen much better
than we do, and better than even Mr. Herbert Spencer."
Quoting from Mr. Bright's
say : " It is interesting to  speeches the Tribune goes   on to
                              remark how differently the   hasty
...recognition of confederate belligerency struck Mr. Spencer
and Mr. Bright.  If Americans were becoming irritable
toward Great Britain, Mr. Bright could not help admitting

that many things had been said and done in England to justify
the feeling even to make England cordially hated. That is
now a thing of the past ; but if our English friends will discuss
it they must hear the truth."

  :-Of the reception of the letter Dr. Youmans writes

(3 July)
     It does not seem to have made any public impression. . . .

I have seen several of your old and staunch friends, who

wce"oSxhmpoicrmehsSespneSetdpnecenebrcmeeinpris'ghsabtiencaasatmernefeoglrfloeohtrwasstahte:puift"bisrlsTitcahlpyetpimebafeierr"asentn;ce".waAsesaokcTbiahadettehdiinsntg"trra;oindwauintcohd-f
1879-82]      Egypt arid America                       209

tion for Spencer's forthcoming Political Discussion" ; " Happily
it has fallen so dead it cannot do much mischief." I have
simply replied that it was an honest piece of work that Spencer
thought important and wished published, and it is therefore
best that it should be printed. He will care little how it is
received.

     As for Anglo-American copyright, it was becoming a
crying necessity.

                               To E. L. YOUMANS.
                                                                       27 April, 1880.

     I regret that the copyright question stands in so little
hopeful a position ; for I quite agree with you that in the
absence of popular opinion in favour of a change, there is
little chance of making an effectual one. I regret to hear
that Matthew Arnold's absurd article is doing mischief with
you. It did not occur to me that any one would pay much
attention to it. I will glance at it and see whether it may
not be effectually dealt with in a short space, and may, in
such case, possibly say something about it.

     6 October. Knowles tells me that your representative over
here, Lowell, has drawn up a form of treaty, the basis of which
is giving copyright to authors if the works are reproduced in
the United States such reproduction allowing of the trans-
mission of stereotype plates. This seems to be all that is
wanted, if the details are not such as to hinder the working
of it.

In July, 1881, Dr. Youmans was hopeful of the result;

but after a visit to Washington in December, along with

Mr. Appleton  and Mr. Harper, he wrote   in a tone of   deep
despondency.   The visit " amounted to  nothing, and
                                                       I was

fairly ashamed of the whole transaction."

                               To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                  10 January, 1882.
     Your accounts of copyright negociations and of the con-
dition of the publishing business are certainly very unsatis-

factory. . . .

     I wish your American public could be made to feel the
utter viciousness of the plea commonly put in in defence of.
your piratical system that it is essential for your institutions

that the people should have access to knowledge, unrestrained
by regard for the author's claims. The truth which, instead
2io                  Life of Herbert Spencer    [CHAP. xvi.

of this, should be impressed upon them, but which I fear
nothing will make them recognize, is that free institutions can
exist and work well only in virtue of an all-pervading equity.
The coercive form of government, itself implying an over-riding

of men's rights, is capable of maintaining a tolerably stable
social state among citizens whose regard for one another's
rights is comparatively small : force does what conscience fails
to do. But in proportion as a government becomes non-

coercive, and is the concomitant of a social system based upon
contract and the working together under voluntary co-operation,
things can go well only in proportion as citizens have such

natures as prompt them to respect one another's claims.
    Already the well-working of your institutions is perturbed

in all kinds of ways by dishonesty. Any increase of dishonesty
will eventually, in some way or other, cause their collapse ;
their only salvation is increase of honesty. Hence, so far from

its being needful, as your people allege, that the necessity is
diffusion of knowledge at the expense even of honesty, it
                      It
                          iIs,

                                                       a
                                                                                               is,
contrariwise, needful that there should be diffusion of honesty,

even should there be some consequent impediment to the

spread of knowledge.             suppose, hopeless to try to make

them see this.

    To return to the spring and early summer of 1880.

Mention made in the diary of meeting M. Renan and
          of
Mr. Robert Browning at dinner at Mrs. Lecky's of being atof ;
              is
Professor Huxley's lecture on "The Coming of Age of the
Origin Species ;" of meeting M. Vambery at Mrs. Huxley's,

and Mr. Gladstone and "distinguished party" at Lady
                      a
                              a
Reay's. Of work on which he was engaged he mentions                       'a

reply to Mr. Guthrie, postscript to the Study Sociology

and preface and appendix to the fourth edition of First
of
Principles. He was also in correspondence with Mr.a

William De Morgan, who was annoyed that in the Study
    Sociology his father had been charged with " recklessness
of misrepresentation." To avoid giving offence Spencer

offered to modify the passage in the International Scientific

Series edition and to suppress   in the library edition.
                                 it
Mr. De Morgan preferred, however, that the passage should
                                             ;
be left as           was, Spencer adding his reasons for the
          2
charge.
                 it

*1  Library edition, p. 398.
    Study of Sociology (I.S.S. edition, p. 412 library edition, p. 426).
                                                          America                                                                  211

                             To E. L. YOUMANS.                         8 July, 1880.

Grant Allen is busy with the article " The Ways of Ortho-
dox Critics." The materials for                              which     have fur-
I

                                a

                                           It
                                                      I

                                                                    it,

                                                                   I

                                                                                              a

                                                                               a if I

                                                                                                                         a
nished for him, are abundantly strong, and will, rightly put
together, form            very telling response to their attacks. . . .
shall probably send you, in a few days, proof of portion of
the Appendix to First Principles, in which am making
rejoinder to Tait and Kirkman in respect to criticism on
the formula of Evolution.
                                                          will, think, prove somewhat

amusing.
  Yesterday, in pursuance of an appointment made with him,
had an interview with Lord Derby for the purpose of enlisting
II

                                                       a
his sympathies in favour of professorship of Sociology which
want to get established at Liverpool. They are about to form
at Liverpool a college, and have raised some 70,000. Lord
Derby has subscribed 10,000 to found one of the chairs, and
until saw him was unaware that he had decided what the
professorship should be. It seems, however, that he has settled
that to have a chair for Natural History, so that my hope
is                                                                  chair of Sociology

       it I

              is

                I
                       I
...that he would at my instigation establish                 a
   balked.
promJuisset dnowsomeamyewarristinaggotheunaddedr ititohnealtitpleart"  of the Psychology,
                                                                       Congruities," and

hope may get through before leave town. So long time
I                            it                           I            it,

                                                                              Ia
has passed since the subject was out of my hands that feel
somewhat slow in my thought on returning to
                                                                       and am

perplexed how to present the leading facts in adequately small

compass, and at the same time in sufficiently clear way.
          I

                           a
                               a
                                                  a
                                                                 a
16 July.        received day or two ago work on Protection
and Free Trade from Spaniard at Barcelona, in which he lays

my various books under contribution, and especially the general
ideas of the social organism, by way of supporting the protec-

tionists' doctrine . . .
          a

                  !
if    curious incident, and one of considerable importance to
me, occurred few days ago. You remember my old antago-IA
nist, Moulton, and our tremendous fight.                               do not know
                                                                       I
                                                                                       I
    ever told you that not long after, he made, as per-

ceived by the signs, various endeavours to establish friendly

relations, and after time, by force of getting to meet me at
                          a

dinner parties, succeeded in doing so, and ever since then he
has been very civil.

    The " curious incident " had reference to information
from Mr. Moulton bearing on the Nebular Hypothesis.
                             1
                                                                                                                                1
                             Infra, chap. xxvi.
212                     Life of Herbert Spencer               [CHAP. xvi.

   Reports even more absurd than usual were going the

round of the Press, both at home and in America. One

was to the effect that he was about to marry an American

heiress,  whom he was      said to      have met at Cairo. Another
that he   was about to                  the tour of the world by the
                           " make

United States and Japan route. He will devote two years

to take sociological observations at the more importantit,.''

points, and be accompanied by one or two scientific friends

and one of his secretaries."

                           To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                               September, 1880.
                                              8

                                                   I
     How the false statement has originated have not the
remotest idea. Commonly, for these gossiping paragraphs,
absurd as they mostly are, can discern some origin but in
this case know of none whatever. Nothing that have said
or done, so far as know, gives the slightest foundation for the
          aI               is,                                I
                               1a                                       ;

statement.       .   I.          is, I
                        I           II
   6I  had call from Mr. Savage, the Boston minister, the other
day. He seems to be an intelligent and broad-minded man.

        October.         am just about to commence reply to the
                                                 a
                                                                  is
criticisms of Sidgwick and others on the u Data of Ethics," to
be published in the January number of Mind. After this out
of hand, shall have done all my fighting for the present, and
          I

shall resume work quietly on the u Political Institutions."

   I8   November. Tait made my criticism upon him the subject-
...matter of his inaugural lecture to the students at Edinburgh
thjs year.              He as hear, about to publish the lecture

in Nature, and in that case we shall have fight.               there
                                              a

                                                          a If

                                                                                 is
nothing in his lecture better than appears from this report, he
will, fancy, have to repent breaking silence.
   Some little time ago a Mr. Richard Hodgson, Jr., perfect

stranger to me, graduate of St. John's, Cambridge, wrote to
                        a

me saying that he had been allowed, on his own request, to

take as subject, . . . the examination of Green's articles in
          a

the Contemporary of some two years ago, in which he made an
attack upon my metaphysical doctrine. Mr. Hodgson offered
to send me his paper, and did so.          was very good in sub-
                                        It

                                           it ;
                                                         it

                                                           It
stance but too diffuse and unorganized and after suggesting

various omissions and second time sending                     back to him

for further revision and abridgement,         has been reduced to

a  satisfactory form and                think, very telling.   has been

sent to the Contemporary.

                  1     Contemporary Review, December, 1880.
1879-82]       Egypt and America                         213

     30 Xorcntbcr. I have just got through my various small
hindrances, including, among other things, the new division of
the Psychology, . . . Unless Tait makes his threatened attack
in Xature, for which I have been waiting for several weeks,
I shall have done with my critics for some time to come,
I hope, and shall be able to get on with my work more

satisfactorily.

     2 December. Tait has been showing fight at last, and fired
off his gun in the last number of Nature. . . . There will pro-
bably reach you, simultaneously with this, my rejoinder.

     17 December. In your copy of Nature, which I suppose will
reach you at the same time with this letter, you will see the
end of the Tait business. As I told you before the controversy
began, I suspect he will repent having moved further in the

matter.

     10 January, 1881. I thought I had finished my fighting for
the present and pretty well settled all my critics. Still, there
is something remaining to be done. Professor Green has
answered Mr. Hodgson in the last number of the Contemporary,
and I think it will be needful to take up the matter briefly

myself.

     The other day I found lying for me at the Athenaeum a
letter containing a copy of some verses a propos of the fight with
Tait. By way of amusement I send a copy. 1

"    14 February. I    am just  "  getting through a chapter on
   Compound Political    Heads       the most perplexing chapter I
had to write on any topic. When I have got it to my satisfac-
tion I feel that I shall have done the hardest bit of work in this
division. You saw the reply to Green in the Contemporary, I

    1 On a  recent encounter between a great Counter     and a great
Accounter.
            " Like braying ass doth Spencer bray,"
               Cried Tait to raise the laugh.

            "Nay, what he sells as wholesome wheat
               Is simply wind-blown chaff."

            When Spencer sharply pinked him fort,
               Tait bawled, his class to cozen,
            "  He smites because I dared term    six,

               What he terms half-a-dozen ! ! "

            When Spencer this poor fiction called,
               What then did P. G. say ?

            "My facts called fictions, I shan't stand,"

               He howled and ran away.
214           Life of Herbert Spencer                                       [CHAP, xvi

suppose. He has written to Strahan saying he does not intend

to continue the matter, and requesting that his letter should
be sent on to me. In                while he does not confess that he
is
                                           it,

                                                                                                          a

                                                                                 I

                                                                                                                                                                              :
wrong in his representations, he apologizes for the expres-
sions he had used, which he admits to have been altogether
out of taste. This controversy having come to an end now
feel free, and hope to avoid all such wastes of time for the
future especially as my critics are all as quiet as mice.

The following are from the diary at the end of 1880

19th December. Called on Mrs. Cross and Lady Claud
Hamilton. [On 20th he went to Hastings on visit to the
Busks.] 24th Saw announced the death of Mrs. Cross.
Telegraphed to Cross. Later,                     at his request,            to the Dean of
                                                 and Tyndall.               29th " George
WElieostt'ms i"nsftuenre, raalndat  to Huxley
                                      Highgate.  Large gathering, though very

bad day.

     The day before he called on Mrs. Cross she had written
to him.

           FROM MRS. CROSS                       GEORGE ELIOT ").
                                                         CHEYNE WALK,
                                                 ("
                                                          4,

                                                                            18 December, 1880.

       have been slow to thank you for the kind present of your
I                                   of which
       of                           Cross your   h"aDveatamaodfe
latest publications,                I                                       ample use, having
re-read with Mr.                                                            Ethics," and the
           Sociology. We saw that you had left your card at
Study

the Priory, and therefore we hope that you will find your
way to this new home, where you would certainly be welcome.

At the foot of the above Spencer has written                                I:

       believe this was the last letter she wrote.'                             called the
I
        II

                        it

                                I

                                                                         !

                                        I

                                                                  a
next afternoon (Sunday) and had long, pleasant talk with her
thought her looking worn, but she did not seem otherwise

unwell.    little thought should never see her more She
was taken ill that night, and heard nothing of                              it
                                                                                       !
                                                                                until, at

Hastings, saw announced in the papers that she had died
on Wednesday night. Alas

     As " one of the very oldest and most valued of her
friends," Spencer was the one to whom Mr. Cross naturally
turned for assistance in carrying out his wife's wish to be

buried in Westminster Abbey. Professor Tyndall warmly

           1  But see George Eliofs Life, iii., 438.
18/9-82]              Eg)'pt and America                      215

pressed her claims ; but on hearing from Dean Stanley that

the movement   had been abandoned, he             wrote to Spencer :
" Between you  and me I think this wise.           Better far to bury

her with silent reverence at Highgate, than to raise a clatter

of tongues as to      her claims    to  be buried   in  the   Abbey."
But the " clatter of   tongues "  was   heard both  in  this  country

and in the United States, with reference to the part which

Spencer had taken in her education. This erroneous state-

ment, which had been repeated at intervals for many years,

was at once rectified by a letter to the papers. 1

During a week at Brighton, in March, he met the Leckys

almost daily, played billiards most evenings with Mr.

William Black, and was twice photographed by Mayall.

It was probably with reference to one of these photographs
that Professor Huxley wrote : " There is just a touch of

severity in the eye. We shall hang it up in the dining-

room, and if anybody is guilty of exaggerated expressions

or bad logic (five womenkind habitually sit round that table)
I think they will feel that that eye is upon them." From

the diary may be culled the following items :

27th April. Finished by dictation memo, on the Physiology
of Character. 9th May. Club. Annual meeting. My service

on the Committee ends, after seven years (two threes and a year
on joint Committee).  12th. To breakfast with Gladstone.

19th. Gave Dinner at Club to the Japanese minister, Bain,
Masson, Morley, Frankland, Sir H. Thompson, and Lord Arthur

Russell.

Owing to the articles on Political Institutions not meet-

ing at home with the appreciation he had looked for,

he urged Dr. Youmans, if he found their popularity

decreasing in the United States, not to continue to pub-
lish them. Dr. Youmans assured him that "we cannot

get enough of this kind of discussion in our Magazine.

There is no salvation for this continent except in the ac-

quirement of   some proximate scientific conception of
the nature of                     " There have been a few
               Government."

bursts of impatience, and one unhappy man in Pennsyl-
vania wrote as follows : ' I sent you five dollars for the

Monthly some months ago ;         either stop       those     stupid
articles of Spencer or stop my    subscription.'    "

                      1 Autobiography^ ii., 363.
216            Life of Herbert Spencer                                                                  [CHAP. xvi.

     Thinking that Professor Golchvin Smith had denounced
scientific doctrine as tending to give a charter to personal
and political selfishness and tyranny, he induced Miss

Bevington to reply.

               To Miss L. S. BEVINGTON.

                                                                                18 May, 1881.

    To the passage you copy from Goldwin Smith's article,
which is evidently consequent upon a protest I made to him
personally when we met at Buxton, and when I reproached
him for this misrepresentation, you might make a very effectual
reply. In the first place, you may remark that this assertion
that their [men of science] conduct was due to the lingering
effect of their theology is purely hypothetical. He has not a
particle of evidence that such is the fact. And then, passing
over that, you may remark that if it be as he alleges, then we
have the remarkable anomaly that whereas the class of men
who not only have been brought up under the old theology,
but still adhere to show relatively little humanity, relatively
               is
                    it,
much humanity         shown by those who, brought up under                                                        it it,
have abandoned it. That
                         it isto say, the effect of the alleged
cause the greatest where has ceased to be in operation.
     is

Those on whom continually acts show less of this effect than
               it it
those on whom long ago ceased to act.

     "The Inhumanity of the Orthodox" was suggested bya
Spencer as title, but Miss Bevington thought that would
be "too pugnacious, and would assuredly offend many                                                     a
half-way minds." The article appeared in the Fortnightly
Review for August, under the heading " The Moral Colour                                                   I
of Rationalism." Professor Goldwin Smith's answer to
in the Contemporary Review for February, 1882, was dealt
with by Spencer in the March number of the same review.

     His holiday movements are alluded to in letter to
Mr. Lott, dated, Ardtornish, 10 July.

     went to Ballater and Braemar, not having before seen
I
                        1I

                                           I
                                                                                                     1
that region, and having the option of subsequently going to
Dr. Priestley's place on the Spey, and having some fishing
there. However, on Friday last, got Valentine Smith's letter

asking me here, and started next morning, having seen some-
thing of the Grampians, but not having explored the chief
places of interest. The only picturesque mountain
                                                                                                             saw  is

Lochnagar.

                      Autobiography, ii., 371.
1879-82]         Egypt and America                           217

     I stay here till the close of the month and then go to the
British Association. I had not intended to go, but two invita-
tions to Escrick Park and to Fryston which promise to make
the week or ten days pass agreeably, have turned the scale.

                 To Miss FLORA SMITH.

                               ESCRICK PARK,

                                            - 3 September, 1881.

Escrick is very tame after Ardtornish. Undulating green-
sward does not adequately replace rock and moor ; and herds
of fallow-deer constantly seen are less interesting than red-
                         However, the internal attractiveness
deer seen occasionally.
is considerable if the external is not. The circle is agree-

able ; our hostess charming as ever ; and our host . . . pleasant
and cordial. Since Wednesday, Association proceedings have
absorbed all the time, and this is the first morning on which
I have found time for writing.

                 To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                            21 September, 1881.

     I am glad to hear that  "ymouorearein  gaining strength, not  so
                                             the spirit of work."
glad to hear that you are                                          If
instead of this you would    write " more in the spirit of play,"

it would be very much better. . . .              on the " Militant
TypI eam"        that you like the two chapters  are, in fact, the
           glad  the u Industrial Type." They
           and

culminating chapters of the part, and, indeed, of the whole
work, in point of importance.

    8 October. I count Fairbairn's attack 1 as having been

decidedly advantageous in virtue of its sequence in the shape
of your article in the number of the Monthly just received. . . .
It adds but another to the many illustrations of your admirable
faculty of exposition, at once lucid and popular, and especially
showing the aptitude for seizing the cardinal points.

     The visit to America was now assuming definite shape.
What he dreaded most was "the bother of having to

see so many people, but I suppose I must make up my
mind to go through it as well as I can." While his New

York friend was planning how to make the proposed visit

pleasant and profitable, Spencer was thinking over various
measures for enabling Dr. Youmans to tide over the

                 1 Contemporary Review for July and August.
218             Life of Herbert Spencer                          [CHAP. xvi.

ensuing winter. " In furtherance of my advice to go south

for the winter, I wish you would appropriate, in advance,

the proceeds of my next half-year's account with the

Appletons, which will, I suppose, be something over ,100.
If you agree to this it may facilitate your plans, and will

put you under no obligation. It will still leave me

immensely your debtor." Though not accepting this offer,

Dr.  Y"oIumamanaslrweaadsygriantdeefbutl efdor   the generosity    that  prompted
                                                to you for the   funds   advanced
it.

when we went to the Mediterranean, and if I have said

nothing about its payment, it is not because I have for-

gotten what I owe you." When pressing his offer again
in November, " not as a loan, but as an acknowledgment

of obligation," Spencer added : "As for Riviera expenses,

I never dreamed of the present position of things being

changed as you would soon find if you proposed to

reimburse me."

     About the middle of 1881 Mr. Alfred R. Wallace had

tried to interest him in the Land Nationalization Society,

which was an outcome of Mr. Wallace's reading of Social
Statics. Looking upon Social Statics as " having in some

degree ploughed the ground for his own book," Mr. Henry

George had expected Spencer to welcome Progress and

Poverty. Early in 1882 they met at a reception given by

Mrs. Jeune (now Lady St. Helier). The meeting was a
great disappointment to Mr. George. Here were probably

sown the seeds of the virulence with which he attacked

Spencer some years later.

The announcement of the cessation of the Descriptive

Sociology led to a generous offer being made by Mr. Hegeler,

of La Salle, Illinois. 1

                          To B. HEGELER.

                                                14 February, 1882.

...I have this morning received your sympathetic letter with
its enclosed Bill of Exchange for 204.                           I thank you

very cordially, and admire very greatly the generosity which

...has prompted your gift ; but you must excuse me if I do not

accept it.

     It is interesting and encouraging to find here and there men

                1 Autobiography, ii., 351, 372,
1879-82]  Egypt and America  219

whose interest in the diffusion of advanced ideas, and whose
care for what they hold to be the welfare of the race, prompts
not only so much active generosity, but also personal efforts
of a more active kind. These are above all wanted. The great
deficiency on the part of men is that the feeling enlisted on
behalf of their convictions is not sufficiently strong to prompt
any sacrifice of time and labour in spreading them.

     On hearing of the proposed visit to America Mr.
Hegeler asked to be allowed to pay all the expenses
incurred by Spencer and Mr. Lott there and back an offer
which was also gratefully declined. Mr. Hegeler was, more-
over, one of the first to furnish capital to push the sale
of the Descriptive Sociology in the United States. For this
object Dr. Youmans had several plans, though he had said
little about them, because, as he wrote, " the tenure of

my strength is insecure, and because, even when stronger,
I could never half carry out my plans. My career is so
strewn with the fragments of unexecuted projects that

I think it time to stop talking at least." All he asked
Spencer for was a free hand. Capital could be secured to

move the work vigorously, if the price could be reduced.
" But everybody agrees that between its ugly form and its
large cost it is commercially impracticable."

     In 1880 Spencer had been invited to join in an address
to be presented to Lord Kimberley " on the native ques-
tion in South Africa," arising out of the disarming of the
Bastitos. The memorialists were in favour of removing
the Government of Basuto territory from Cape Colony to
the Home Government.

                               To F. W. CHESSOX.

                                                                      18 November, 1880.
     I should have been glad to join in the manifestation of
opinion to be made by the Deputation to which you invite

me to-day, had I been able to agree in the special proposal
made. But in the face of multitudinous experiences, it does
not seem to me that the transforming the Basuto and other
such territories into Crown Colonies would permanently secure
the end in view. So long as it is felt by colonists that when
they aggress on natives and get into quarrels, the home govern-
ment will come to their defence, and so long as men who initiate
aggressive policies, which end in the annexation of territory, get
titles and honours, notwithstanding their unauthorized actions
22O                Life of Herbert Spencer         [CHAP. xvi.

and even their disobedience to orders, the filibustering policy
with all its atrocities will continue.

     Looking about for a powerful pen to stir up the national
conscience he bethought him of Mr. Swinburne.

             To ALGERNON CHARLES SWINBURNE.

                                                   8 March, 1881.

Some two years ago I obtained with considerable difficulty a
        of your    ""Wowridshionfg                                  the Mus-
copy      Crusade                   an    English   Republican on   worthy to
covite                                to   foster  it as something

be preserved as an example of magnificent writing. The
other day, after reading some passages of it to a friend and
evoking from him also great admiration, it occurred to me

that your marvellous powers of expressing well- justified anger
might be fitly used at the present time in condemnation of our
filibustering atrocities all over the world. You have, I doubt
not, been in a chronic state of indignation daily intensified,

by our doings in Afghanistan, in Zululand, in the Transvaal,
and on a smaller scale in other places. There never was,
I think, an opportunity for a more scathing exposure of the
contrast between our Christian creed and pagan doings, our
professed philanthropy and our actual savagery, and I long
to see the traits of the matter presented with that extreme
power and pungency with which you exposed Mr. Carlyle's
creed and his absurd inconsistency. I cannot imagine anything
more telling than a pamphlet by you, written after the same
manner, and holding up to the English people a glass in which
they might rightly see themselves and their doings.
     Pray consider the matter, and if you can do so, yield to my

suggestion.

Mr. Swinburne was " sincerely and deeply gratified "
                                                   " on a practical ques-
on learning that   what he          had written     to Spencer deserving
tion of national   politics "        had seemed

of a different notice from that vouchsafed by the press. But

he did not see his way to come forward at that time with a

volunteer's contribution to the political literature of the day.

Mr. Swinburne's refusal was a great disappointment to

Spencer, who needed all the help he could summon in the

crusade he was about to enter upon.

A motion by Mr. Henry Richard in the House of

Commons respecting the conduct of civil and military

agents in the Colonies, suggested to Spencer that the time
1879-82]  Egypt and America                 221

had come for action. Steps were taken to secure the

co-operation of those whose sympathies were supposed
to be in favour of the movement. A circular was drawn

up, the rough draft of which in Spencer's own handwriting,
and dated 16 June, 1881, was "done under pressure in
forty minutes."

          To JOHN BRIGHT.

                             2 July, 1881.

     When some six weeks ago I had the pleasure of a conver-
sation with you at Lord Airlie's on the subject of the antagonism
between industrial progress and war, I stupidly forgot to name
the fact that I had been for some time past contemplating an

attempt to gather together the large amount of diffused opinion
against our aggressive policy, which now tells but little because
it is unorganized.

     My leading idea was and is that the efforts of the Peace
Society are practically paralysed by its identification with the
principle of non-resistance. . . . My belief is that all the diffi-
culties hence arising may be excluded by having in place of
the principle of non-resistance the principle of non-aggression,
which for all practical purposes would prove equally efficient.

   At a meeting held on July n Spencer's circular of

June 16 was discussed, and slightly modified before being
sent out in search of adherents. Many subsequent meetings

had to be attended, and much correspondence carried on

between that date and the end of the year. Suffice it to

say that the reception given to the circular was sufficiently
favourable to justify the convening of a public meeting early
in 1882, with a view to which an address, setting forth the
principal objects of the proposed League, was drawn up by
Spencer. As the date of the meeting came nearer he felt
more and more out of sorts. The diary says :

     \9tli February. Getting worried with A.A.L. matters.- 20th.
   Anti-Aggression League arrangements. 22nd. Much busi-
ness. Feared should collapse, but did not. Anti-Aggression
League meeting took place quite successfully. I spoke well,

and was much complimented.

     Until he saw how little attention was given to the
movement by the London press, he had hoped to interest
222          Life of Herbert Spencer                  [CHAP. xvi.

French liberal papers in it. But the day after the meeting
he wrote to Dr. Gazelles, expressing disappointment with
the reports. "The tremendous disturbance in the House

of Commons about the case of Mr. Bradlaugh had the
double effect of keeping away very many members of Par-

liament who had promised to attend, and the further effect

of occupying so large a space in the papers as to leave little
room for the report of the meeting." As evidence of the

popular estimate of the relative importance of events, he

mentions that the Times of February 23 had no notice
of the meeting at all, and that the Daily Telegraph devoted

half a column to a report of the meeting, and about three

columns to Jumbo, the elephant. Three weeks later (March
                                          English and Colonial
s1o5)ngthe"  Times published Tennyson's   the lines near the end
             Hands all Round." Two of

ran

             " Pray God our greatness may not fail
               Through craven fears of being great."

     Spencer himself tried his hand at a   poem  in reprobation,
under the title, " The Craven Fear of     being  Great," but got

no further than two stanzas. At the foot of these he has
pencilled : " I was made very angry by some verses of

Tennyson's having the above burden, and began to write

a reply."
     The writing of a paper of " Anti- Aggression League

Memoranda," describing the origin of the movement, and

the policy which in his opinion should be pursued both

in Parliament and in the country, in carrying out its aims,

drove him back to Brighton on March 15. Turning to the
diary one reads :

     I6tli March. Train to Arundel. Spent morning in Park.
Some revising. . . . Evening, billiards with Black. 17th.
Walked with Bridge [his Secretary], sitting down to dictate
occasionally. Evening with Black. 18th. Walking and dicta-
ting to Bridge in morning. Afternoon walking. Evening
with Black playing billiards. 19th. Evening, billiards with
Black and Lockyer. [To London on 22nd.] 24th. Ended
chapter on Political Retrospect and Prospect. Finished vol. ii.
of the Sociology', so ENDING HARDEST BIT OF WORK. Dined at
Huxley's.
1879-82]  Egypt an(t America                                      223

                               To E. L. YOUMANS.
                                                                      29 March, 1882.

     You will rejoice with me that this division of my work is
now completed. I regard it as by far the most difficult piece
of work I have had to do, and now that I am through with
it I feel that what is to come is comparatively plain sailing.

     The diary for April 26 says : "Attended Darwin's funeral
at Westminster Abbey." Some misunderstanding gave rise
to the following letter :

                               To GEORGE DARWIN.

                                                                                   4 May, 1882.

     Thank you for your explanatory letter. I regret that any
misunderstanding should have entailed on you the trouble of
writing it. I fancy some remark of Huxley's (made probably
to Galton and then to you) to the effect that my very pro-
nounced non-conformity in the matter of ecclesiastical cere-
monies (which he knew had prevented me from being present
at Tyndall's marriage) might perhaps be an obstacle to my
attendance. But I felt the occasion of your father's funeral to
be so exceptional that I could not let this feeling prevent me

from manifesting my great respect. . . .

    If anything could serve as adequate consolation to Mrs.

Darwin and yourself it would be the immense manifestation of
sympathy a manifestation which I should think has never
been paralleled in the case of any man of science.

The League continued to involve much correspondence

and many interviews. Efforts were made to adjust terms

of union with other societies, such as the International

Arbitration Co-operative Society, and Mr. Cremer's Work-

man's Peace Association.    The Egyptian   inimEgbyropgt l"iobewinags
taken up a Memorandum     on " The crisis

prepared by Spencer, embodying the substance of a circular

addressed to the members of the League by the Executive

Committee. Spencer thought that the opportunity should
be taken "to express somewhat more sympathy with the

Government in the difficulty of its position than has thus
far been done." "
                   If,

                                                 is
                                                               a
                   while advocating                               non-aggressive

policy, the League could be represented as sympathizing

with the Ministry in its difficulties, much might be done

towards conciliating those whose aid important."
224                  Life of Herbert Spencer         [CHAP. xvi.

                     To THE RIGHT Hox. JOHN BRIGHT.
                                                  24 June, 1882.

On Thursday I had the pleasure of breakfasting with Mr.

Gladstone, and had after breakfast a quarter of an hour's
talk with him concerning the Anti-Aggression League. He
expressed his entire sympathy with its aims. He felt the need
for saying, to use his own words, that the Peace Society had
"botched the matter" by its impracticable principle and heit,
recognized the fact that our aims were in harmony with the
progress of Liberalism at large.a                    ;
     In consequence of this conversation  I     next day forwarded
                                                            if
to him copy of the report of our inaugural meeting, anda          it is
drew his attention to the address setting forth the aims of the
                     He has written me himself note in which he
League. .        ..  use his own words, " not literally or formally
expresses,
                 to

concurrence, but very hearty sympathy."
     He asked me whether had communicated with you on
                     I

the matter, and said that you had expressed yourself sym-
     I
pathetically.  I
     Now think that under these circumstances there
                                          you will speak to Mr.
encouragement to decided action.  If

Pennington you will find from him that sundry of those who,
besides himself and Mr. Samuel Morley, wish to aid us are
deterred by the fear of hampering the ministry especially now
that the Egyptian business complicates matters. Now
could be known among such that not only do you sympathize
with us, but that Mr. Gladstone does so too in respect of our
general aims, the difficulty would disappear and we should at

once have ample and probably energetic aid.

It       would be difficult to say which feeling was stronger
   that roused by the aggressions of the Government on
weaker nationalities, or that roused by the aggressions of
the State on the liberties of citizens. He counselled co-
operation between different societies to protect the indi-
vidual liberties of citizens. Writing to Mr. W. C. Croft
in December, 1881, he said

     In our day Toryism and Liberalism have become confused,
and the line between them has to be drawn afresh. Toryism
stands for the coercive power of the State 'versus the freedom
of the individual. Liberalism stands for the freedom of the
individual versus the power of the State. At present the Liberal
party have lost sight of their essential principle, and new
Liberal party has to be formed to re-assert it.
                     :

                                                                                 a

     No documents can be found with which to supplement

the account of the visit to America given in Chapter LXII.
1879-82]           Egypt an(t America                                                               225

of the Autobiography. It is true, we have the diary, which

on more than one occasion, has helped to complete the

narrative. When one turns to however, soon becomes
          a
                                                 is it,
                                                                 it

                                                                                                 a
apparent that the chapter describing the visit to America

must have been dictated with the diary in his hands,

nothing of interest being left for the biographer. As for

the absence of documents, that explained by the cessation

of his ordinary correspondence while he was away. At

most only few letters passed between him and his friends

and acquaintances who offered their services with view

to render the visit as comfortable, enjoyable, and instructive

as possible. The managers of the great railways vied with

one another in offering him luxurious travelling facilities.

Hotel proprietors showed in every possible way their desire

to welcome him as an honoured guest. Friends heaped

upon him and Mr. Lott unbounded private hospitalities

and unwearied kindnesses. And, to crown all, there was

the banquet given to him at Delmonico's by leading repre-

sentatives of American thought and enterprise, the remem-

brance of which, he said in the speech he delivered on
the occasion, would " ever continue to be
                                          if             source of

                                                      a
pleasurable emotion, exceeded by few, any, of my re-

membrances."

That Spencer was deeply touched by the genuine warmth

of the welcome he received wherever he went in the United

States and Canada certain. No one regretted more than
                   is
he did that he could not avail himself to larger extentit
                                          a

of the facilities for enjoyment so freely placed at his dis-

posal. The pity of was that he could not throw off

that morbid dread of social excitement, the imagination

of which, in this instance as in many others, did him more

harm than the reality would have   done.    Mr. Lott had, one
                                   time   acting as " buffer "
can well believe,  a  very trying

between his friend and interviewers, not even finding time

to visit his own relatives in Chicago, though that was

one of the objects he had in view when he offered to

accompany Spencer as far as New York. Spencer's dis-
like to being lionized showed itself on his arrival at Liver-

pool. Immediately on landing he took train to London
thus depriving Mr. Robert Holt and others of the pleasure
they had looked forward to of giving him complimentary
                                          a

                                                                                          :

15
226     Life of Herbert Spencer                                  [CHAP. xvi.

dinner as a welcome home and as an expression of their
warm regard and admiration.

                            To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                                                       25 Xwember, 1882.

    You were amused, I daresay, to find that I was actually
interviewed after all ; just at the last moment on board the
"Germanic." A Herald reporter got hold of me, and, before
I was aware who he was, managed to get some remarks out
of me which I probably should either not have made, or
should have expressed differently if I had been on my guard.
I suspected immediately afterward what had happened. . . .

     I find I have lost about half a stone in weight. I was worn
while with you, more than I have been these many years ; and

was conscious that among other evil effects of my nervous
debility, there were aberrations of word and deed in various
small matters which annoyed me very much afterward to recall.

...12 December. This morning I got the copy of the pamphlet. 1
       I have glanced through the parts which were new to me ;
and have found my nerves somewhat tried by the amount of
eulogy. I am not without fear that it may cause, in some
minds, a reaction. However, in America you are so accustomed
to having things strongly put, that I suppose such an effect is
not so likely to be produced as it would be here.
Now, as always, you have in your own remarks seized all

the essential points -and presented them in the clearest way.
I know no one who has the art of saying in so brief a space
that which most                                   You know I never pay a com-
pu leim"entthawtitwh hiacnh  needs   saying.  is  always a complement with an
                             " i."   Mine

                             is due. . . .
I join in the great regret for Draper's death, when he was
just getting into conditions for doing his best work. The
scientific world has been very unfortunate this year. J evens,
Balfour, Draper all men from whom much was to be hoped.

1 Herbert Spencer on the Americans, and the Americans on Herbert
Spencer. New York : D. Appleton and Co. This gives a complete
report of an "interview" pre-arranged between Dr. Youmans and
himself, which was published in the New York papers of October 20.
It contains also an account of the banquet given in his honour at
Delmonico's on November 9, with full reports of the speeches delivered
on the occasion, as well as of speeches not delivered, and letters of
regret  foSr taatbesse. nceThferom"                                                  parts of the
United                               indteisrtviniegwuis"headnd  men in different      were after-
                                                                   Spencer's speech
wards published in the Contemporary Review for January, 1883 ; and
were finally included in the Essays (iii., 471).
                                227

                CHAPTER XVII.

A POLITICAL CREED FOR TRUE LIBERALISM.

                   (January, 1883 December, 1885.)

THE year 1883 opened not very hopefully, though, as

far as health was concerned, things were not so bad as he

thought. A    vWisietllsw, as"  paid to a   Hydropathic    establishment
at Tunbridge                    not with a  view to the.  ordinary treat-

ment, but with a view rather to fresh air and a pleasant

place for passing the time." It did not prove such a
" pleasant place " after all ; the entries in the diary for the
three nights he spent there being " very good night,"
" poor night," " very bad night."

                             To E. L. YOTMAXS.

                                                                     9 January, 1883.
      I enclose some pages from the Medical Times and Gazette
[6 Jan.], sent to me the other day by Dr. Hughlings Jackson.
The initiative he made years ago by applying the doctrine of
dissolution to interpretation of nervous disorders an initiative
that is now being followed and in that direction seems likely
to lead to other results. The paper is very clearly and con-
clusively argued ; and is to me just as much a revelation as
was -that which Hughlings Jackson made of the doctrine.
     Yesterday I received a copy of Savage's sermon, from which
you made a quotation. The part I had not seen is remarkably
good, and puts very clearly and eloquently the points on which
Fiske also had insisted. I think something ought to come out
of the movement of which Savage appears to be the most
distinct head.

     Gratified by Spencer's endorsement of his attempt " to
re-construct religion and ethical teaching on the basis of
Evolution," Mr. Savage sent copies of the sermon to London
for distribution. About this Spencer wrote to Professor
Huxley and other friends :
228 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvn.

     It is long since I have been so excessively annoyed as
I was yesterday on learning that Mr. Williams, my publisher,
has been sending to some of my friends copies of a sermon by
the Rev. Mr. Savage, of Boston. He has done it entirely with-
out any authority from me, and without giving me the slightest
reason to suppose that he was about to do it. Otherwise I
should have given him a very peremptory interdict.

The fact was, Spencer never felt quite at ease with the

demonstrative activities of some of his American admirers,

and often reminded them that things which would be con-

sidered matters of course on the other side of the Atlantic,

were viewed in   a  different light- on this side.  complains  arose
     One of the     excitements " of which he
                 "

from the Kantian Revival and criticisms connected with it.

                    To RICHARD HODGSON*.

                                                                   16 January, 1883.
     I wish you would look at some of the writings of the
Neo-Kantians, who are becoming dominant, and who, as for
example, Watson, think they have made unanswerable attacks
upon Evolutionary Empiricism. Their policy throughout
appears to be to evade or ignore entirely the criticisms made
on Kant, and to pass on to raise other issues. I have nowhere
met with any attempt whatever to meet the objections I have
made to the Kantian doctrine of Space, set forth in the

Psychology,

Moreover, there is another very effectual movement of

attack to be made against them. They deliberately ignore
the position which I have insisted upon, that every scheme of
philosophy must set out by taking for granted such data of
consciousness as are involved in the very action of intelligence ;
since thought cannot stir a step towards any conclusions what-
ever without positing these, any more than the body can move
without using its limbs. Disregarding this truth, the Kantian
critique sets out without asking what are the things involved
in the very first act of judgment which must be made in
positing any fundamental proposition in philosophy, and with-

out recognizing the truth that the validity of this act of judg-

ment cannot be proved by anything preceding but must be
          is
                           is

                                                                                                   ?

                                                                             it,
                                                                                            I
subsequently justified by the congruity of all results that are
subsequently arrived at in conformity with this first act.

have, as you may remember, pointed out that the fundamental
             why one dictum of consciousness accepted as
question

true rather than some counter-dictum finding the answer

to this question in the testing of the relative cohesions among

states of consciousness. Clearly this necessary determinant
1883-85] A Political Creed for Liberalism                           229

of choice among judgments must precede in authority all such
judgments as those with which Kant sets out. But the Kantists
ignore this truth, and suppose themselves to have undisputed
authority for the primary judgments they start from do not
apparently suspect that their authority for them may be
challenged by asking why the deliverance of consciousness
which yields them, must be held valid rather than the opposite
deliverance of consciousness.

     The Kantians think they have gone behind other philo-
sophies. The thing to be done is to go behind them, and to
show [that] the true u form of thought," is a relation between
states of consciousness, and the true process of thought a
survival of the more coherent relations in the struggle for
existence.

                        To G. CROOM ROBERTSON.

                                                                   22 January, 1883.

     Probably you have already looked at an article in the
current number of the Edinburgh on the a Kantian Revival."
Joined with some other incentives which have arisen of late,
as, for instance, the criticisms contained in the work of Professor
Watson, I feel prompted to say a few words about the matter
in so far as it concerns myself.

     My notion is not that of entering into any controversy at
present, but simply to draw attention to my own objections
to the Kantian philosophy, and to ask for answers to these
before I proceed further. I am perfectly prepared for the issue
raised by Watson and others ; but before thinking it worth
while to meet it I propose that they shall meet the issues I have
raised.

    To Dr. Youmans he writes : " I enclose you a copy of
a page of the 57. James Gazette (14 February), in which
I recently published a letter which you will find there.

I was glad to have the opportunity of giving the Edinburgh

Review a wipe ; and I was not sorry to have the occasion

of publicly repudiating Mr. Henry George." In this letter

to the St. James Gazette he says :

     I  suppose that    naocwe,ntuwrhye, n,"  after I have been     oprguabnlis"hihnags
        for a third of                        the leading critical
books

recognized my existence, I ought to feel thankful. . . . But
such elation as I might otherwise be expected to feel is checked
by two facts. One is that the Edinburgh Review has not itself
discovered me, but has had its attention drawn to me by
...quotations in the work of Mr. Henry George. The other is
that . . . the reviewer                       is apparently unconscious that
230 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. XYII.

I have written other books, . . . that the last of them, u Politi-

cal Institutions," contains passages concerning the question he
discusses. Writers in critical journals which have reputations
to lose usually seek out the latest version of an author's views.

His speech at the banquet at Delmonico's was still being

discussed in the American Press. Not only the soundness
of the dictum " Life is not for learning, nor is life for

working, but learning and working are for life" but even

its originality, was called in question. "We have had

somewhat too much of    the gospel of work/' Spencer    said.
" It is time to preach  the gospel of relaxation."
                                                        In a

book on "American Nervousness" Dr. George M. Beard,
had already urged that " the gospel of work must make way
for the gospel of rest." In a pamphlet on " Herbert Spencer

on American Nervousness : A Scientific Coincidence," he

now drew attention to the similarity of Spencer's much

talked of maxim to his own published opinion. Dr.

Youmans had no difficulty in showing how slight the coin-
cidence was, and also mentioned having " heard Mr.

Spencer give expression to the main idea of his address

long before the name of Dr. Beard was ever publicly heard

of. It was an early outcome of his evolution studies."

To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                        8 Ma /v//, 1883.
The incident is very annoying. Had I known that he had
used an antithesis so like that which I have used  I
carefully have avoided it. The phrase " gospel         srheoluaxldatiomnos"t
                                                   of

was first used by me in the course of a discussion with Mr.
Garrett when we were at Montebello ; and at the time of using
I thought I will try and make that stick. As to my general
view you say very rightly that it is of long standing. I am glad
you remembered that many years ago I contended (somewhat
to your surprise, I think, at the time) that the aesthetic element
in life would in the future, take a larger development than now.

     One outcome of his speech was the formation in New
York of the Twilight Club, of which he accepted an hono-
rary membership. " I \vould, however, remark that the re-

ports of your proceedings seem to imply rather more gravity
of speech in your conversations than is altogether consis-
tent with the ' expectation of relaxation.' "

     At Birmingham a movement was on foot that had
1883-85] A Political Creed for Liberalism                                            231

important consequences, leading to friendship with Mr.

\V. R Hughes and Mr. F. Howard Collins, and years of

unstinted services on the part of the latter. The Birming-
ham Natural History and Microscopical Society, of which
Spencer was an Honorary Vice- President, had decided to
form a Sociological section, the opening meeting of which
took place in May. 1 When this was brought to the notice
of Dr. Youmans as an example to be imitated, it elicited
the remark : " This matter of an organization in New York

has been much on my mind, but I have not seen my way
to move in it. It is the easiest city in the world to start

anything ; the hardest to continue anything."

                           To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                                                      12 April, 1883.
    Your reference to the cheap edition of the " Data of Ethics "
reminds me by the title of an interesting bit of information
I had the other day from the Japanese Minister over here, to
the effect that they have issued a translation of it in Japanese.
I was rather amused to think of the amount of bother they
would have to render some of the words ; and also bethought
me that their furniture of ideas, apart from the difficulty of
translation, would scarcely enable them to follow the argument.
...However, they are a sharp people.
            I am beginning quietly to take measures for preparing
a iinal edition of my Essays. . . . My method is simply to take
with me to the Athenaeum a sheet for revision, and to do half
an hour's work upon it in the course of the afternoon. . . . This

will get me through at such rate that by the time other things
are out of hand the three volumes will be ready for the
press. . . . When I speak of other work being out of hand
I refer more especially to a new edition of the first volume
...of the Sociology, to which there will be appended the complete
references.           I am making an engagement with an expert

the librarian of the Athenaeum Club, a very clever and very

erudite young fellow to go through them all and verify and
correct all details.

     The following has reference to an article by Lord Pem-
broke in which some of Spencer's views were criticized.

    1 Nature,   19 -April  thaendMi1d7laMndayN. atuAralleisttt,er     from Spencer,  dated
    March, is  printed in                                          June, 1883.
20
232 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvn.

                        To THE EARL OF PEMBROKE.

                                                                                 2 May, 1883.

     I am much obliged by your letter of explanation and the
manifestation of kind feeling implied by it and all the more
so because I do not know that in its absence I should have
felt any explanation required. Having myself never allowed
personal considerations to prevent me from candidly expressing
in a public way my criticisms upon others, I, of course, always
expect to be dealt with in like manner, and so far as I re-
member, have never felt aggrieved by criticisms however
trenchant when fairly made. Indeed regarding it as a duty
to express my own dissent from the views of others on im-
portant matters, I necessarily recognize it to be a duty on the
part of others to express dissent from my views where the
question at issue is of moment. And I fully recognize the fact
that those, who like yourself, hold positions which call upon
them to act and therefore to form definite judgments are bound
by public duty to oppose beliefs which they think erroneous,
and, where the matter is important, to freely state, for the
benefit of others, their reasons for doing this. I have ever
insisted that things will go well when each utters and en-
deavours to get accepted that which he thinks to be the truth,
leaving the average opinion produced to work out such results

as it may.

To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                   17 J///v, 1883.
I lately took up a book at the Athcnrjuiii entitled Natural
Law in the Spiritual World, by Henry Drummond. I found
it to be in considerable measure an endeavour to press me
into the support of a qualified theology, by showing the har-

mony between certain views of mine and alleged spiritual
laws. It is an interesting example of one of the transitional
books which are at present very useful. It occurs to me that
while the author proposes to press me into their service, we
                                                  Just look
might advantageously press him into our service.
at the book and see.
By this post I send you a copy of yesterday's Standard in
which you will see a leading article concerning my election
to the Fiench Academy. I affix also at the top of the page
a cutting from the Pall Mall Gazette giving a different version
of the election, which I suspect is the true one. If it is the
true one, which I am taking steps to ascertain, then it appears
that while the vacancy in the higher grade of membership
made by the death of Emerson is filled by the promotion of
Sir Henry Maine from the lower grade to the higher, I am
invited to accept the vacant place left by this promotion of
Sir Henry Maine. If I accept, it seems to me that I am by
1883-85] A Political Creed for Liberalism                                                      233

implication recognizing the propriety of this estimate of relative
claims. Sir Henry Maine is my junior by two years, and he
is in his standing as an author my junior by ten years ; so that

no plea of seniority can be alleged : it comes unquestionably
to a judgment of our respective positions. . . .

     I have been hesitating for a day or two. . . . Seeing that
as the majority by which I was elected was so great (27 to 2),
and that it might be ungracious to refuse this, which is in
some sort an international courtesy, I felt somewhat inclined
to commit the inconsistency of accepting that which I had
in previous cases refused. But if it turns out that I am asked

to authorize and endorse that academic judgment which ranks
me as lower than Sir Henry Maine, I feel very strongly inclined
to take the course I originally intended.

24 May. I am sending off to-day my letter to the French
Academy, declining the so-called honour they have done me,
in electing me a correspondent. . . .
I received from the Secretary of the Academy an official
          which runs as   follows
letter   Sir, I have the  honour   :              inform  you           that  at   the   meeting
      "
                                   to

to-day, May 12, the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences

elected you correspondent in the section of Philosophy, in
...place of Mr. Tappan deceased."
             In any case the fact is that Emerson's death having
made a vacancy in the class of associates, Sir Henry Maine
is promoted from the list of correspondents to fill his place ;
                          cor"reWsphoondeisntsMr. I                                      fill
and into  that   list of                                  am drafted to                  be    the
place of  Mr.   Tappan.                                                         "  will        the
                                                          Tappan
                                                                              ?

general question. . . .
The whole transaction
                                                  think, so thoroughly absurd,
it

                    a
                                              is,

                                         I

                                                                     a
that affords good opportunity for trenchant criticism,
not upon the French Academy alone, but upon academic

selections generally.

                          To JULES SIMOX.                                     May, 1883.

        beg to acknowledge the receipt of your communication
informing me that the Academic des Sciences Morales et
I

                                               a
Politiques has elected me correspondent in the section of
philosophy, in the place of Mr. Tappan, deceased. Along with
my thanks for the intended honour, will you please convey to
the members of the Academy the following reasons which
oblige me to decline it. The first of them may conveniently
be given in the words used by me when, some twelve years
ago, declined an honorary degree offered to me here
I

                                                                                                                                                  :

                                                                                           I
     " Certain convictions which have been long growing up in
me, respecting the effects of honorary titles, will, however,
234 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvn.

fear, stand in the way of my acceptance of the degree which

the Professors kindly suggest should be conferred upon me. I
have come to the conclusion that such honorary titles, while

they seem to be encouragements to intellectual achievement, do,
    re"ality,subpypotshinegir
in                             indirect influences, act as discouragements.
                                due discrimination were possible, men
I                                                                                       of
          If,
much promise received from a learned body such marks of
distinction as would bespeak attention from the world at large,
  can well imagine that such men would be greatly helped, and
would oftentimes be saved from sinking in their struggles with

adverse circumstances in the midst of society prepossessed in
favour of known men. But there ordinarily comes no such aidI
until the difficulties have been surmounted supposing, that
                                               a                                if,
that     they have  not proved  fatal.         because   honorary               titles      if is,do
      "  Probably               said that
                       will be
                  it
not commonly yield benefits so great as they might yieldit
given earlier, does not therefore follow that when given they

are otherwise than beneficial.  think, however, that instead

of considering their direct effects on those older men who

have received them, we consider their indirect effects on those
younger men who have not received them, we shall see that
to these they become, practically, an additional obstacle to

success. Always the impediments in the way of one who,
without authority, enters the field of intellectual activity, in
competition with those having established authorities, are suf-

ficiently great. The probability that he has nothing to say
worth listening to,
                               so strong, that he                             almost certain to
               a
                                is
                                                                            is

                                                                         is
receive for long time scarcely any of the attention he may
well deserve. But this unavoidable difficulty made artificially
greater when, bearing no stamp of value, he has for competitors
those who, to the advantages of known achievements, add
the advantage of officially-stamped values. The larger reading
world, and the narrower critical world which leads it, are

greatly biassed by whatever bespeaks respectful consideration.
And
               the presence of an honorary title gives this positive
         if

                                         a
                                                      it,

                                                          l

                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                       it
advantage to one bearing        its absence involves                            positive

disadvantage to one not bearing it."

    The evils resulting from this system (which, were
allowable to adopt word from sportsmen, might be called
inverse handicapping) these evils which, during the earlier

part of my career, were revealed to me by personal experiences,
are not the sole evils caused. Even leaving out of considera-
tion those who do not receive these honorary titles from
Universities and Academies, and limiting our attention to those
who do receive them,
                                may, think, be shown that the
                               it
                                            I

distribution inevitably involves both personal injustices and

                               Autobiography, ii., 233.
1883-85] A Political Creed for Liberalism                                             2 35

public mischiefs. It must do this whether the choice of those
to be honoured is ideally good or whether it is such as we

actually see.
     Supposing that the selection is made with perfect fairness

and the best judgment, it is manifest that the number of those
at any time existing who bear these marks of honour, is so

great that there must be an immense contrast between the

claims of the few higher in the group and the claims of the
many lower, who are nevertheless made to appear equally
worthy of being distinguished from the mass of cultured

persons. If society at large is at all influenced by these titles

(and if not they are wholly futile), then, inevitably, the tendency
is to equalize in public estimation those who bear them ; and
while unduly raising the inferior, to do this at the expense of

depressing the superior.
     But it must, I think, be admitted that the distribution is
not guided by either correct appreciation or unbiassed feeling.
Besides the personal favouritisms and antipathies which occa-

sionally influence                                          the selection  inevitably influenced very
   it

                             a it,
                                      is
                                                       is
                                                                                a
greatly by the religious bias, and in considerable degree
by the political bias. It further swayed by the bias which

the leading men of University or an Academy have in favour
of this or that school of thought, scientific or literary. And

since every established body tends to become conservative, the
titles confers are tolerably sure to be distributed in such way
as to encourage the upholders of traditional views and to
discourage the advocates of those newer views which are in

course of replacing them.
    The perversions of choice resulting from the co-operation

of all these causes are notorious. Any one who, in our English
and Scotch calendars, reads the five hundred and more names

to which are affixed LL.D. or D.C.L., can scarcely avoid

smiling at the irony of fate which has united under the same
badge men so distinguished with men so undistinguished. And

though in the groups of those who bear titles given by
Academies on the Continent the differences in respect of
capacities or achievements may not be so extreme, still they

are sufficiently striking.
But not only, or chiefly, the effect upon individual
is
              it
                   is

                           is

                                                         ;
status which        objectionable, the effect upon public opinion
even more objectionable. The mass of men accept their
beliefs on authority and beliefs which bear the endorsement
of a University or an Academy appear to them more acceptable
than those which are avowedly or tacitly rejected by it. Hence,                    a
during each transition period, occupied in the conquest of old
ideas by new, honorary titles accorded by such body to the
defenders of the old, and long withheld from the propagators

of the new, necessarily retard the change.
        may add that these evils are increased when Academies
I
236 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvn.

separate the foreign members affiliated - to them into two
ranks ; since by thus giving judgment, or appearing to give
judgment, respecting the comparative merits of men elected,
now to the higher and now to the lower rank, they affect the
public estimate of the comparative authorities of their opinions

or writings. For reasons like those assigned above, these
academic estimates of relative worth are not unfrequently
erroneous, and are therefore misleading to the public at large.

     Beyond these general reasons which sway me, there is a
special reason. Already on three successive occasions I have
declined a correspondentship accorded to me by a foreign
academy. Manifestly, I cannot now accept a correspondent-
ship from the French Academy without passing a deliberate
slight upon each of these three academies. As it would be
improper to do this, there remains no alternative for me but
to persist in the course which I have already pursued, and
again to decline.

     Conscious as I am that the Members of the Academy of
Moral and Political Sciences, in electing me by so large a
majority, have testified in a marked way their sympathy, and,
in a. measure, their approval, I regret that I am obliged thus
to respond in what seems an ungracious manner. But, as will
be seen, the motives which prompt me are strong, and the last
of them peremptory.

     For a time Dr. Youmans was disinclined to meddle
with such high and delicate personal matters. When he
did take it up, it was mainly because "it seemed to be an
opportunity to reinforce a view that I am more and more
inclined to regard as important. The erroneous view of
your relation to Darwin is very wide-spread." On this

Spencer remarked (3 September, 1883 ) :
     I see that you have turned the incident into " capital " with

great effect : making, indeed, much more of it than I had
thought of. It has been an early custom in various parts of the
world, and was the custom even in the highlands, for chiefs to
have official orators. Somebody will be noting the fact, and
saying that I must have appointed you as mine ; and that
a most eloquent one you are. Certainly no man ever had
another who set forth his claims so persistently or effectually.

    The Hrst half of July he was at Inveroran, disappointed
with the fishing not catching even one salmon to send
with congratulations to Professor Huxley on election as
President of the Royal Society. 1 After a few weeks at Ard-

                            Life of Professor Huxley, ii., 53.
1883-85] A Political Creed for Liberalism                                                      237

tornish he turned homewards, travelling via Fort William,
Kingussie, Grantown, Edinburgh and Derby.

                            To Miss FLORA SMITH.

                                                                     EDINBURGH,
                                                                            11 August, 1883.

     As I came away from Ardtornish I gazed with sad eyes
on the scenes where I had known such kind friends and passed
so many happy days my presentiment being that I was seeing
them for the last time ; for I fear that I am on the way to
become a wreck, fit for nothing and for no society. The chief
qualification to my melancholy was the thought of the genuine
sympathy and the anxiety for my welfare which you had shown.
I shall always remember them with gratitude.

                     To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                                                   LOXDOX, 21 August, 1883.

The same .post lately brought me three letters from the

antipodes one from an ardent disciple in Australia, and the
others from Collier and from Sir George Grey, in New Zealand,
both describing the growth of influence out there. 1 . . .
Such small amount of work as I have been doing since
                                                                                                               will
...I left town, is devoted to revision of                          my Essays. . .  ".   There
                                                                   Essay on the        Origin                  and
be an important supplement to the
Function of Music/'  In while defending my own view
               a

                 I

                          a

                              I
                                   I

                                                 it,
versus that of Darwin, shall make a general criticism on the
Darwinian Hypothesis, which will flutter the strict Darwinians
                   have for some time contemplated this, but
considerably.
was arrested in my intention by his death, which made the
writing of such criticism undesirable for time.                                                                will
                                                                   is
probably be year before fulfil the intention.                         a

After two weeks at Standish, where he had "plenty of                          a if
                                                                                    I
out-door games lawn tennis, bowls, and quoits with                                 It

billiards in the   evening," he   told                             Miss Beatrice Potter                       :
" The game-cure    joined with   other                             agencies has done much,

and as was saying at the Huxley's yesterday,                                           were
a
             I

                                     a
                                                                I
young man and speculator, would set up an establish-

ment to treat patients by it."

     'About New Zealand Mr. Collier informed him "that range of
mountains in Nelson province bears, and for twenty years has borne,
your name." He had heard from Lady Dalhousie that his books were
much read in New Zealand, "although," she added, "as Dalhousie
remarked, there no country where your teaching less acted upon."
               is
238 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvn.

                     To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                                                                                        September, 1883.

     I have    now to break off this [the                                                               oAf u"toCbieorgermapohnyi^al  for the
               preparing a second edition                                                                                             Institu-
purpose of
tions." Some alterations in the plates are needful, for I have
to tackle Tylor's criticisms, or rather his elaborate attack on
me, which was given as a lecture at the Royal Institution,
and published in Macmillan [May, 1882]. One only of his
criticisms       think, valid.
I

         3

                iIs,
                           I

                                                                              1

                                            it

                                                                                                     ;
        October. We are on the highway to Communism, and
   see no likelihood that the movement in that direction will
be arrested. Contrariwise, seems to me that every new step
makes more difficult any reversal since the re-active portion
of the public seems likely to become weaker and weaker.

    13 November.     shall probably commit myself to series
                                                                                                        I

                                                                                                                     a

                                                                                                                                ;

                                                                                                                                   a
of four political articles. For some time past have been
getting more and more exasperated at the way in which things
are drifting towards Communism with increasing ^velocity and
though fear little to be done am prompted to make
it,                  is                   I
                            a
       I
         I
vehement protest, and am intending to say some very strong
things. Oddly enough, yesterday while exciting myself over
    as have been doing lately, the editor of the Contemporary
Review called on me, wanting me to take up the question, which

has just been raised in very startling way by an article of
Lord Salisbury's on the dwellings of the industrial classes.

Though have not yet committed myself shall probably do
         is I                                                                                           aI

                                                                                                                                                                 ;
so. Of course do not like to suspend other work, but the
                 I

matter pressing and important, and, in sense, permanent
for, these four articles contemplate, dealing with the questions
                     I

not after temporary, but after a permanent manner, will have
          a

their future value.

of   12  January.    The     programme    of the                                                        ofonrt"hcTohme inSgpenncuemribaenr
         Edinburgh           contains an  article
    the                 see
               I
                  II

                                it
Philosophy."        expect will be civilly dissentient.

    28 January.      went yesterday to look at the article to find
a sentence which would serve my purpose, and found one on
the last page admirably fitted, which inclose.
                                                                                                        I                   am going
                                                                                                                         I

this week to issue advertisements of First Principles in all the
leading papers, to which shall fix this adverse opinion of the
                             I

Edinburgh by way of showing my contempt for it.

     The  adv"erTthisiesmentnoatchcionrgdinbgutly                                                       appeared with  the            selected
          :                                                                                                Philosophy  of             epithets
sentence         1

                           is
                                                             a
               Principles of Sociology, ii., Soa, new edition.
1883-85] A Political Creed for Liberalism                                     239

and phrases, introduced and carried on with an unrivalled

solemnity and affectation of precision of style, concealing

the loosest reasoning and the haziest indefiniteness." A
copy was sent " to the editor and another to the contributor,

who, I find, is Sir Edward Beckett."

The entry in the diary for New Year's Day, 1884, was a
            "Had to decline
bad omen :                      d"inRiensgumatedHutxhleeyp'sracNtiecwe     Year's
Day dinner    feared effects."                                             which

I began before Christmas, of going to Kensal Green every

morning and playing quoits, at intervals between games

getting some work done and deriving benefit." The work
done under this " eccentric arrangement," was the writing

of the political articles : the benefit was of a mixed kind.

Playing quoits in January, with intervals of dictation, had

a result that might have been looked for an attack of

lumbago. This was no sooner got rid of than he reverted to

quoits, and was again incapacitated. After a time he was

saved the drive to Kensal Green through the kindness of

Mr. George Howard,  M.P., who                "gaarvreanhgiemd  the use of  a field
in Palace Gardens.   Spencer                                    with the   lodge-

keeper for a room in which to work between games good

little room with fire." So runs the diary, in the keeping of

which, be it noted, he was getting to be extremely lax.

The "game cure," carried out in these more favourable

conditions, hardly had a fair chance before it was given up

in favour of an opposite regimen. On his return from a

second visit to Brighton, he adopted the course of driving

daily to the Athenaeum and back all the way in a cab ; thus
"/taking no exercise and avoiding exposure.
                                                                           greatly

improved" (the italics are his own).

                To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                             15 February, 1884.
" The New Toryism " [the first of the four political articles]
has caused a considerable sensation here, and has brought a
hornet's nest about my ears in the shape of criticisms from the
liberal journals. . . . most of which make fun of me. Oddly
enough I am patted on the back by the conservatives, which
is a new experience for me ; and by the Roman Catholic organ,
the Tablet. It is droll to see that whereas a few weeks
                                             it labelled u Dangerous,"     "  ago
the article on  "Reisligqiounotewd asfrobmy  with approbation. I am           the
Xew Toryism
                                                                           well
240 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvn.

forward with the third article, which will astonish people still
more than the previous ones.

     On the retirement of Mr. P. A. Taylor from the repre-
sentation of Leicester in Parliament, Spencer was asked to
allow his name to be put forward as a candidate. His mind
having been for many years made up on the question of
entering Parliament, there w'as no need to deliberate on the
answer, which was in fact given the day following.

To REV. J. PAGE HOPPS.

                                                                  21 February, 1884.

    While I am gratified by the compliment, and by the
manifestation of sympathy, implied in your proposal, I fear
that I cannot respond to it in the way you wish. Several

reasons, each of them sufficient, deter me.

     In the first place, my health is such that discharge of
Parliamentary duties would be impossible. . . . The labours
implied by active political life, could I bear them, would make
it impossible for me to do other work. As I regard such other
work as by far the more important as I think I can do more
good by endeavouring to complete what I have undertaken than
by occupying myself in listening to debates and giving votes ;
I should not feel that I was doing right in exchanging the one

career for the other.

Far too high an estimate                                          think, made of the influence
                       a

                              iIs,
possessed in our day by member of Parliament. Now that

he has come to be, much more than in past times, subject to
his constituents now that the House of Commons as whole
                                                                             is I a
more and more obliged to subordinate itself to public opinion                                  ;
the implication that those who form public opinion are those                                   is
if

                            is

                                                         a

                                       It

                                                              is
who really exercise power.                                        becoming common remark
that we are approaching state in which laws are practically          is a
made out of doors, and simply registered by Parliament and
so, then the actual work of legislation                                      more the work

of those who modify the ideas of electors than of those who
give effect to their ideas. So regarding the matter, conceive

that should not gain influence, but rather lose influence, by
I
      I

                     '

                           a
                                 a

                                   if
                                      I
ceasing to be writer that might become representative.
                                                                  a

But, apart from these general reasons, there                                 the more

special reason that,   chosen by the electors of Leicester,

   should prove very impracticable member. My views on
political matters are widely divergent from those of all political
parties at present existing. That which hold to be the chief
                                                                  I
business of legislation an administration of justice such as
                                                                     is
                                                                          a
shall secure to each person, with certainty and without cost,
                                                                             business to which
the maintenance of his equitable claims
1883-85] A 'Political Creed for Liberalism  241

 little attention is paid ; while attention is absorbed in doing
 things which I hold should not be done at all. As I could not
 agree to be merely a delegate, voting as was desired by those
 who sent me, but should have in all cases to act on my own
judgment, I should be in continual antagonism with my con-
stituents ; most of whom, Liberal as well as Conservative, hold
opinions from which 1 dissent, and who would wish me to
support measures which I entirely disapproved of. Hence, even
if elected, I should be quickly called upon to resign.

     Nor have I even now enumerated all my reasons. There
is a further one, which many will doubtless think more
anomalous than the last. Not only should I object to the
oath required on taking my seat, if elected, but I should object
to make even the affirmation, were that allowed in place of it.
Neither constituents nor their representatives appear at present
to recognize any impropriety in being bound by the judgments
of remote ancestors. They are quite ready to bind themselves
not to change certain institutions which their great-great-great
&c., grandfathers decided would be good for them. Were
I called upon to make such a promise I shoufd refuse to do
so ; holding myself free, as I should, to seek the change or
abolition of such institutions if I did not think them beneficial.
Quite irrespective of any opinion concerning the particular
things to which the promise bound me, I should object on
principle to being bound at all.

     You will thus see that the choice of me as a candidate
would be extremely impolitic, even had I no reasons of a
personal kind for declining to stand.

     The letter was published with the omission of the
paragraph about the oath. There was a widely-expressed
opinion that philosophers had not proved a success in the
House of Commons, and a general agreement in thinking it
of more importance that Spencer should continue his work
than that he should enter Parliament. The soundness of
his own characterization of himself as " a very impracticable
member " was questioned by few. Curiously enough, about
the time Spencer declined a proffered seat in the House of
Commons, Lord Tennyson took his seat in the House of
Lords. As one newspaper said : " We have secured our
poet, but not our philosopher."

                            To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                                                      14 March, 1884.

     There is quite a chorus of comment on my letter, and nearly
all of it is favourable. . . . To-day the Times, Spectator, and
Saturday Review have leaders, particularly dissentient. I will send
you that of the Times in a day or two along with my reply to it.

          16
242 Life of Herbert Spencer- [CHAP. xvn.

     20 March. I did not, as I thought of doing, write a letter
to the Times showing what I conceived to be the fallacy of the
inference drawn in their article that costless administration
of justice would immensely increase litigation, and arguing that
were justice prompt, certain and costless, the result would be
not increase but decrease ; since the larger amount of civil
aggression results from the belief that it will not bring any
penalty. My reason for changing my intention was that con-
troversy with an editor is a bootless business and is sure to end
unpleasantly ; since he has the advantage of stopping discussion

when he pleases, and is sure to leave one apparently in the
wrong.

     An invitation to join the Liberty and Property Defence
League was declined for reasons stated in the following

letter :

                    * To THE EARL OF WEMYSS.

                                                                        1 March, 1884.
     Were there none but the immediate issues to be considered,
I should have pleasure in yielding to your request, but there
are remoter issues, and consideration of these deters me.
     I think it would be politic neither for the League nor for
myself that I should join it. Rightly or wrongly it has acquired
the repute of a Tory organization ; and as I have recently been
exasperating the Liberal party by my criticisms, were I to join
the League the inference which would be drawn, and appa-
rently with very good ground, would be that I had turned tail.
Now were this inference to be drawn and widely asserted as it
would be, such effect as may be presently produced by papers
I am now writing would be in large measure destroyed. The
press of the Liberal party would have a seemingly valid reason
for pooh-poohing all that I say.
     Not only would this be a result I should greatly regret,
alike on public and private grounds, but, as I have implied, in
so far as it would tend to diminish what influence these forth-
coming papers may have on the development of individualistic
ideas and feelings, it would tell against the progress of the
League, by causing men to turn a deaf ear to arguments against
the meddling policy, which they would otherwise listen to.

    The letters to New York about this time are concerned
mainly with the political articles and the controversies

arising out of the article on " Religious Retrospect and
Prospect," Here are some of the references to the former :
1883-85] A Political Creed for Liberalism     243

                To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                                                        15 April, 1884.

...The remaining article [" The Great Political Superstition"]
       is altogether revolutionary in its view, and will greatly
astound people, perhaps even more in America than in England,
since its essential principle is the denial of the right of the
majority save within certain definable limits. The argument
is working out even more satisfactorily than I expected ; and
the whole politico-ethical theory is presenting itself in a more
...complete and harmonious form than I ever before perceived
it could have.  It is amusing to find myself patted on the

back by the Tory papers. Had I been asked in times gone
by whether such a thing could have happened I should have

regarded it as quite impossible.

    13 May. This [the last of the articles "The Great Poli-
tical Superstition "] will, I think, end what I have to say
about political matters. Beginning in 1842 and returning from
time to time to the topic in the interval, with further develop-
ments, I now in 1884 reach what seems to me a sufficiently
completed view the politico-ethical doctrine set forth in this
article being a presentation in a finished form of the theory
gradually developed during these forty-two years. It will,
I think, eventually form a new departure in politics. The
definite conclusions reached, alike concerning the legitimate

powers of Governments and majorities, and the reason why,
beyond a certain range, their powers cannot be legitimately
exercised, and along with them the definite conception pre-
sented of the nature of true Liberalism for the future, may,
I think, serve presently to give a positive creed for an advanced
party in politics. At any rate, I have now done all that I
can to make the matter clear ; and what little energy remains
I shall, I think, in future devote wholly in other directions.
           disappointed  with the reception
[He was                  Legislators," which   accorded to the
          "The Sins of                        had at first been
paper on
intended to form part of the final paper.] A reason for
dividing it was that I was anxious not to distract attention

from the special group of facts it contained, showing that
legislation was to blame for the immense evils that have,
during the last six months, been a current topic the evils set
forth in the Bitter Cry of the Outcasts of London. I thought
that the exposure of the causes of these evils would create a

considerable sensation ; but one is habitually wrong in these
cases. Next to nothing has been said about the fact that the
whole mischief is of governmental production. I suppose in

part it may be that the facts tell alike against both political

parties ; and neither party consequently likes to say anything
about them.
244 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvn.

     15 May. The Pall Mall Gazdic, which has taken the lead
in emulating the American papers in introducing u interviewing,"
is apparently inclined to emulate them in unscrupulousness.
The enclosed verses will show you what amount of conscience
exists among journalistic leaders of opinion over here. . . -1

                 " Let Evolution fight its destined fight
                          Unchecked through Competition's strain and stress."

     But there is a great demoralization in public life here. I
could never have believed that in our clay political parties, and
more particularly the Tories [the Liberals afterwards behaved
as ill or worse. H. S.'2] would have behaved so vilely as they
have done. I am beginning to feel a certain satisfaction in
the thought that I shall soon be out of it all, and leave no
posterity.

     All through July, 1884, he was busy seeing through the
press the political articles, under the title The Man versus
the State. A bust for which he had given sittings to
Mr. Boehm in 1883, and replicas of which he was now

presenting to his more intimate friends, furnished some dis-
traction from the engrossing topics of politics and religion.

              To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                                 6 October, 1884.

     I am glad that you are pleased with the bust. It has been
by most thought very good, though not by all. The Huxley
family are pretty unanimous in their condemnation Mrs. Huxley
going so far as to say that she should like to take a hammer
and smash it. One remark of theirs was that there was a want

of character in and John Collier (the son-in-law) said that
looked more like the portrait of speaker than a thinker.
incline to think that there some truth in the remark made by
Westmacott, member of the Athenaeum and the son of the
              a                                                                                                                          I it
                   it,

                                  a
                                       is

                                       I

                                                           a

                                                                   it

                                                              I
sculptor, who said to me that he thought         was too incisive.

However, Boehm has marble bust, which commissioned
him to do for me, in hand, and may perhaps get him to some-
what soften down this undue salience of traits.

14 November. Having got         rid of all my controversial

botheration,  am now making     ...preparations to go on with
                                              should already have
21

             I

                                                  a

                                                    I

                                                                                     a

                                                                                                                                      !
permanent work again quietly.

      Pall Mall Gazette, 14 May, 1884, " Laissez Faire                                                                                   A Sermon in

Spencerian Stanzas."

        Inserted by Spencer at  later period in  copy of the letter left
among his papers.
1883-85] A Political Creed for Liberalism,                                                                  245

made some way with " Ecclesiastical Institutions " had it not
been for the considerable amount of trouble consequent upon
...another piece of work [the revision of the first volume of the
Sociology^.  I am at the same time, while erasing some

superfluous illustrations, adding here and there others ; espe-
cially in chapters dealing with disputed questions the chapter
on Animal Worship, and that on Nature Worship, both of
which are greatly strengthened.

     At the beginning of 1885 he thought he had now entered
upon smooth waters, and would speedily reach his next
port. Little did he foresee the storm to be raised over the

republication in the United States of the controversy with
Mr. Frederic Harrison, nor had past experience taught him
to make allowance for the many uncertain currents which
might cause him to drift from his prescribed course, now in

one direction, now in another. One of these side currents

was due to Rev. T. Mozley's Reminiscences. 1 Another arose
out of Mr. Martineau's new book, Spencer being dissatisfied

with the distinction drawn between his own and Mr.

Darwin's presentation of the principle of evolution. 3

             To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                                  23 March, 1885.

     I hope you will be getting your breathing apparatus into
better order down south. Why have you not let me know
something of the results of the change ? I daresay you find it
difficult to kill time away from your work ; but this is better
than to let time kill you while at your work, as you will
inevitably soon do if you go on without taking constant and

great precautions. . . .
    The Belgian economist M. Emile
an  article in the Contemporary Review  udnedeLravethleeyetitlheasofw"ritTthene

State versus the Man, a reply to Herbert Spencer." The editor
brought to me a proof the other day with the implication that
I might say something in reply.

     The following is from M. de Laveleye after seeing
Spencer's reply.

                            FROM EMILE UE LAVELEYE.

                                                                LIEGE, 2 April, 1885.
     I think the one really important point in our dissent is your
opinion, borrowed from orthodox economy, that, under existing
conditions, if free contract were but established, labour would

             yf1 Autobiography, 44, Appendix K.,

               Types Ethical Theory^ ii., 344.
             *                                                                                        549.

                                                i.,
                                                                                                  p.
246 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvn.

be equitably remunerated. I maintain what you demonstrate in
your Social Statics (chap, ix.) that when primary rights are
violated, i.e., when the labourer or the tenant, deprived of all
property, is forced to choose between the wages offered him by
his employer or the owner of the land and starvation, he is no
more free than the traveller when requested to deliver up his
money or his life.

                             To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                                  4 May, 1885.
     I presume that you have seen Dr. McCosh's criticism on
me. . . . The criticism, in parts which I have looked at, is of
the loosest, and almost, in some cases, puerile kind. He has
been justifying the name which was given to him in Scotland
Dr. McBosh.

  "...21 July. I have finished u Ecclesiastical Institutions

and I shall take the whole of the remainder of the manuscript
to the printer on Thursday before leaving town, which I do on
Friday morning. After ten days or a fortnight with my friends
the Potters, on the banks of Windermere, I shall probably go
north, and try to get some fishing, as well as some bracing air
in Sutherlandshire. Probably I shall be back about the be-
ginning of September, or soon after.

     31 August. The result of my excursion to Scotland was
disastrous instead of beneficial. Wear and tear of travelling,
joined with some over-exertion the next day, knocked me down
utterly so utterly that I had to return home ; and not daring
to undertake the worry of travelling by myself, had to telegraph
to London for Mr. Hudson [his new Secretary] to come and
take charge of me. However, by taking the journey home
in short stages, and stopping here and there for a few days,
I have got back greatly improved, and am now not so much
below par as I expected o be.

     30 September. What little I am now doing is devoted to the
Essay, or rather Essays, which I named to you, in criticism of
the Darwinian view. It is growing greatly in importance as I
collect memoranda and material, and will, I think, tend to put
a different aspect upon the whole question, which has at present
been considered very partially. The Essays will I think produce

some sensation, or even among some, consternation.

The new edition of the first volume of the Sociology

was published soon after his return from Scotland ; and

by the beginning    of October "Ecclesiastical  Institutions"
was ready. He     at once began the " Factors     of Organic
1883-85] A Political Creed for Liberalism                       247

Evolution." As setting forth his relation to Mr. Darwin,

Mr. Grant Allen's little book, Charles Darwin, was oppor-

tune, as well as welcome. 1

     The necessity of husbanding his energies was in itself
sufficient reason for declining the presidentship of "The
Sunday Society " in succession to the Duke of Westminster,

as well as requests from Hull and Cork to lecture. Follow-

ing on correspondence with Lord Dysart on Home Rule,

a letter was sent to the Tunes on "Government by Minority,"

protesting against allowing the Irish Party in the House

of Commons,      by a   system of organized       obstruction,  to stop
all legislation  until  Home Rule had been        granted. "    Hither-

to  ItohldaveDrn. eYvoeur msaaidnsa,n"ytbhuintgI  about the politics of the day,"
he                                                felt prompted to do so on this

occasion. You will see that the leading article refers to the

letter ; and the editor of the Quarterly yesterday told me

that he had cut it out and sent it to one of his contributors,

who was writing a political article ; so that the hour spent
in writing it was not thrown away." A request from the

Hon. Auberon Herbert for a brief summary of his attitude

about the land, led to the writing of the following letter,

a copy of which he came upon during the controversy on

the land question in

                    To THE HOX. AUBEROX HERBERT.

                                                                                    13 October, 1885.

     The views on land tenure set forth in Social Statics five
and thirty years ago. were purely ethical in their derivation,
and belonged to a system of what I have called absolute
ethics, in contradistinction to that relative ethics which takes
into account existing arrangements and existing men. When
writing them I had no conception that the question of State-
ownership would be raised in our time, or in any time near
at hand ; but had in thought a distant future when a better
adaptation of human nature to social life had arisen, and purely
equitable social arrangements had become practicable.

     The conclusion reached was forced on me partly when
seeking a valid basis for private property (the ordinary basis
alleged by Locke and others being invalid), and finding none
that was satisfactory save one originating in contract between
the individual as tenant and the community as land owrner,

                 1 Memoir of Grant Allen, p. 126.
                 - Infra chap. xxii.
248 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvn.

and it was partly forced on me by the contemplation of such
anomalies as that which we see in the Scilly Islands, the owner
of. which may, if he pleases, make residence in them conditional
on accepting his own religious creed, and conforming to any
modes of life he dictates ; a state of things which ethically

considered is indefensible.

     That any economic advantage would be gained by such
a change as that indicated is not obvious. All that can be

said to belong by right to the community is the land in its
original uncleared, unfertilized state. The value given to it
during centuries of cultivation, which (excluding town lands)
is nearly all its value, belongs to the existing proprietors ;
nearly all of wrhom have either themselves paid for that
artificial value, or are the representatives of those who did.

The equivalent of this value would, of course, have to be given
in compensation if the land were resumed by the community ;
and the interest on the required purchase money would, at

present rates, absorb as much as, or more than, the community
would receive in the shape of rent from its tenants.

Moreover, there is the difficulty that administration of landed
property by the State, would be bad administration, econ-

omically considered ; since there is no reason to suppose that
public machinery would work better in the land-managing
department than in any other department. Whether future
increments of increased value, which would accrue to the
public, would compensate for the loss caused by inferiority of

administration may be doubted.
    As will       seen by any one who
property in  be  Political Institutions," my  reads   the chapter on
              "                                views  respecting land

tenure are by no means settled there being a difficulty, out

of which I do not see my way, in reconciling the ethical view
with the economical view.

But as is shown in the last lines of the chapter, I regard
communal proprietorship of land, if established at all, as
a system to be established when the industrial type has
reached its full development ; and I am distinctly opposed

to the question being raised at present, because it is clear that
any such change, if made, would be made in the interests of

Communism.

     A note of sadness pervades the letters to Dr. Youmans
and Mr. Lott towards the end of the year. To the former

he writes: "The fact is we are all beginning to break
up in one way or other. Of the members of the X Club,
which, in Huxley's phrase, reached 'its majority' yesterday,

one is gone, and of the remaining eight, there are only two
in good health. My poor friend Lott is in a bad way."
1883-85] A Political Creed for Liberalism                                          249

                        To EDWARD LOTT.

                                                        10 November, 1885.
Your letter has made me sad on various accounts more

especially of course on your own. . . . On my own account
also it was a disappointment. For I had been cogitating over
a scheme for taking a house on the South Coast in some
salubrious place . . . where I might come at intervals and
...spend perhaps a third of the year with you.                             As it
             a
however,         it
                     is

                                is ;
                                         it

                                                      it

                                                                     I
                                                                              I

                                                                                         is

                                                                               if
                                                                                    I

                                                                                                                        is,
                obvious that migration from Derby out of the
question for you so that my plan, from which hoped all of
us would benefit, knocked on the head.

By fortunate coincidence happens that am just revising
my will, and perhaps
                            may not be amiss to say that have
left 300 to you, or to Phy [Mr. Lett's daughter] you die
before me. This may serve slightly to diminish your anxieties
on her behalf.

    Being at Brighton he could not attend the X dinner of

3rd December. Professor Huxley wrote next day.

We were very sorry to miss you yesterday were reduced
to five but we contrived to keep our spirits up and positively
             ;

                             I
                                                                       Ia
sat till after ten o'clock all except Lubbock who had to go
                        don't think that anything of very profound
to the Linnoean.

character was said in fact, in your absence, am afraid we
inclined to frivolity.

                        To T. H. HUXLEY.

                                                                                December^ 1885.

And so you sat till 10. Well, really, this too bad. Con-
                                                        7
                                                              is

sidering that am always the one to protest against the early
             I
                   It
dissolutions that habitually take place, that you should seize
the occasion of my absence for making a night of
                                                                           it,     adding
                                                                               is

insult to injury.       would really seem from the fact which you
deliberately bring before me, that have hitherto been the
                                                I
                                                    X,
cause of the prompt breakings up of the party                              shall have
                                                                  !
to bring the question before the next
                                                                     I

                                                                                it
                                                                                       is
                                                        and ask what                       in

my behaviour which leads to this obvious anxiety to get away
as soon as possible when am present.
                        I

a            am very glad to hear of Lord Iddesleigh's letter, and the
intimation conveyed in it.
   1 it I I                 It                an immense point in life to

                                  is

                                             ;
have no anxieties about resources and now that you are free
from these and all official cares of moment, we may look for
good deal of original work, joined with bouts of fighting, the
occurrence of which goes without saying.
        got hold of the Nineteenth Century [for December] as soon
as made its appearance here, and chuckled over the article                                 ;'

             "The Interpreters of Genesis and the Interpreters of Nature."
250 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvn.

which, as usual, exemplifies the hand of iron in the glove of
velvet.

     Acting on a suggestion of Mr. Howard Collins, the
Sociological Section of the Birmingham Natural History
Society proposed to prepare indexes to Spencer's books a
proposal which was gladly accepted. As far as the carrying
out of this proposal was concerned, that happened which
usually happens when a duty is undertaken by several
the work before long lay entirely upon the shoulders of
one man. Even such assistance in the way of criticism
and suggestion as Mr. Collins had looked for from Spencer
was not forthcoming. Former offers to index his books,
made by the present writer and others, had not been taken
advantage of " for the reason that all these things entail
upon me business of one kind or other, and my energies
are so narrow and are so continually being frittered away
by tetter-writing and transactions with printers, &c., that
I get scarcely any work done."
                  251

                 CHAPTER XVIII.

  RELIGIOUS DISCUSSION : A SUPPRESSED BOOK.

                           (March, 1883 December, 1885.)

     IN the foregoing chapter we have seen how Spencer
thought he had arrived after forty-two years of meditation

within sight of "a positive creed for an advanced party in
politics." In the chapter we are now entering upon we
shall be concerned mainly with what he intended to be
"a kind of final expression" of his views on religion.
Though the events about to be narrated coincided in point
of time with those set forth in the last chapter, they have
a special interest of their own which justifies a separate

chapter being devoted to them.

                  To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                       12 April, 1883.
   I have just finished the first chapter of " Ecclesiastical
Institutions." It deals generally with the religious idea, be-

ginning by showing that it does not exist naturally, that there
is no such intuition as theologians tell us, and then goes on to
recapitulate in another form and briefly, with fresh illustrations,

the argument elaborated in the first volume, winding up by

drawing a detailed parallel between the origin and evolution
of the present creed and those of other creeds, and showing
how complete is their correspondence.              It is dreadfully

destructive.

"    Writing to   Miss Beatrice  Potter (October 8)    he says :
   If you should  some day get   hold of a book just   published

by a clergyman, the Rev. W. D. Ground, An Examination of
ihe Structural Principles of Mr. Herbert Spencer's Philosophy,
yon will  be astonished to find
possibly  ' called ' to reconstruct  it suggested  that I am very
                                                                      "
                                     the Church    of  Christ  !  !
                                                                     !
252 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvm.

                           To REV. W. D. GROUND.

                                                                                    12 October, 1883.

     To meet with a work, which, like yours, deals with the
doctrine of the Synthetic Philosophy as a whole, and with an
obvious desire to deal justly, affords me pleasure. I quite agree
with your statement that the general doctrine of Evolution is
independent of these ontological views which I have associated
with it ; and I am not sorry to have this fact insisted upon. . . .
I may, however, draw your attention to certain passages, the
full meaning of which I think you do not recognize, concerning
the view I hold respecting the Ultimate Power.

     In March, 1885, he drew the attention of Dr. Youinans
to the work of another clerical author with similar aims.

     There has just been published here a book entitled Can the
Old Faith live with the Netv f by the Rev. George Matheson, D.D.

    evidently a Scotch presbyterian, for he dates from Inellan, on
the Firth of Clyde. It is a very remarkable book, having a
drift something like that of Ground's book, but written in a way
which will I think be more attractive to the mass and more
appreciable. It is really a very clever attempt to show that the

...evolution doctrine is not irreconcilable with the current creed,
        I should think Beecher would rejoice over it and take its
doctrines as texts.

     During 1883 little progress was made with "Ecclesiastical
Institutions." For months, however, he had been thinking
over the concluding chapter, and in the autumn this was
written and put in type, proofs being sent to Professors
Huxley and Tyndall in November. Six months were to
be allowed them for perusal and criticism; but within
a day or two he changed his mind and decided on im-
mediate publication. Hence a note to each of them with
the remark : " It is absurd after giving you six months, to
want your criticisms in as many days."

                               To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                          13 Xovembei; 1883.

     I enclose you a proof of a chapter entitled " Religious
Retrospect and Prospect." which is the closing chapter of
my next division, u Ecclesiastical Institutions." I began to
write it in advance of the others some time during the summer
and only recently finished it : the reason why I thus began
having been at first simply that it was one I could dictate
1883-85]              Religious Discussion                                  253

out of doors, because it did not involve reference to collections
of materials. Having written it thus in advance, I thought
it well a short time since to have it set up in type, so that
it might be well considered and subject to the criticisms
of friends before publication, seeing that it is a kind of final
expression of my opinion ; and I lately sent copies to Huxley
and Tyndall.

     As implied, my intention was until recently to reserve
it until all the other chapters of the Part were written, and
then to let it appear for the first time along with the new
volume. . . . Within this day or two, however, on re-thinking
over the matter I have come to the conclusion that the ad-

vantages of immediate publication are such as to more than
counterweigh this consideration. In the lirst place, it is a long
time since I have made any sign, and it is important to publish
something. In the second place, the chapter, if published
separately here and with you, will be far more widely diffused
than if it were reserved for the volume and limited to the
circulation that would attain. In the third place, the question
is a burning o.ne, and one in respect of which it is desirable
to be clearly understood.

Retr1o7spNeocvtemanbder.ProKsnpoewctle"s    is   going to publish this   u  Religious
                                          in    the Nineteenth Century.     Hitherto

he has always made the simultaneous publication in America a
ground for refusal. But, as I wished to have the widest diffusion
for the article here, I wrote to him asking whether he still

maintained his interdict, telling him that simultaneous publica-
tion in America is a sine qua non and that I must go elsewhere
if he did not assent. He replied, the temptation is too great

and he would yield.

    22 November. If this reaches you in time, please insert
the note I enclose. It is to meet a possible criticism pointed

out by Huxley. 1 Huxley has read the article twice and Tyndall
three times, and both coincide. So that the argument may
be taken as an expression of advanced scientific opinion.

19 January, 1884. It is curious to hear that the American
press has so generally shied at the article. . . . Here there
has been a considerable amount of attention. . . . And various

papers have     been  sent to  mceasecson"tapianiinnganadrticdliessg,usmt."ostlyTheexrperes-
sing interest,  and   in some
          a

                      1

                              a
                                      oj

                                                                                                              it, is,
however,        marked absence of the bitterness which charac-

terized such notices in years gone by. Knowles tells me that
                      hailstorm of communications about
he had had quite

                Principles Sociology, iii., 166, note.
254 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvm.

some being from clergymen who declined to take the Nine-
teenth Century any longer ; and he tells me that Gladstone had
a letter asking him how he could contribute to a periodical
which contained such an article. I also have had a great
many letters and books ; aiming to show me the error of my
ways, but all without ill-temper.

Proofs of the article had been sent to France, Germany,

Italy, Hungary, Russia, India and Japan, as well as to New
Zealand, where Sir George Grey took steps to have it pub-
lished without loss of time, wishing " that an independent

public opinion should be formed on it before people would

have had their judgments interfered with by the articles

from Europe." In Australia, Mr. Caddy, one of Spencer's

disciples, had great difficulty in getting an editor to look

at it; one* of them saying "that he could not print Mr.

Spencer's wild speculations in a paper which every week

supplied one      of  aSdpmuirtge: o"n'Esvidseenrmtlyontsh."ere  Of. America Dr.
Youmans had       to
                                                                 is more religious
independence of thought in England than here. For your

critics, at any rate, take interest in the subject, while there

is too much timidity here to venture upon either side of

the discussion."

Meanwhile, the storm was beginning to gather, though

as yet the cloud was no bigger than a man's hand. Mr.
Frederic Harrison's article on "The Ghost of a Religion"

appeared in the Nineteenth Century for March.

                      To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                 6 March, 1884.

You see Harrison is aiming to turn my article on Religion
to account in furtherance of the worship of Humanity. It is
rather droll to see how, considering he sets out with the state-
ment that he is not about to criticize my argument, he should
end by what is practically a ferocious assault upon it. I sup-
pose I ought to answer him ; but, if so, [I] must postpone it
until these political articles are out of hand.
I feel prompted to answer him not only because he quite

mistakes my view, besides making sundry other statements of
a baseless kind, but also because I feel inclined now to make
a trenchant criticism on the Religion of Humanity. As I think
...I told you I intended                                         it was to form
                                          to do this, and        and Prospect,"
part of the article on                    : a Retrospect
                      y" eRaersligaigoon
which I have published. But               I thought on the whole it
1883-85]            Religious Discussion                         255

might be well not to arouse the animosity of the Positivists.
Now, however, that Harrison's article practically challenges
me, I feel very much inclined to have my say in the matter.
What do you think ?

"     14 June. Herewith    I   send  you proof of the article      on
   Retrogressive Religion  "  which  is my reply to Harrison,    and

in part as you will see by its last section, to the more recent
attack of Sir James Stephen. . . .*
   [It had not at first been his intention to hasten the reply.]
When, however, there came out on the first of the month Sir
James Stephen's criticisms on Harrison and myself, and when
at the same time there was published a kindred attack in the
Xdtional Review by Mr. Wilfred Ward, 2 (which I have not yet
seen, but   which   is referred to in   the    press, and especially     in
an article  in the  Saturday called          Quadrangular Duel,")     8  it
                                       "A
seemed to me that it would not do to postpone longer the
publication of my reply.

    22 July. I am glad you like the a Retrogressive Religion "
It has done considerable service here, especially in making
people understand better what the Agnostic attitude is. It is
rather amusing to find myself patted on the back by sundry
of the religious papers, as I have been Church, Roman
Catholic, and Dissenters. It will doubtless be serviceable in
the same way with you.

     Harrison has a reply in hand, but I gather that it is not
likely to appear on August 1.

     The controversy was viewed with concern by one, at
least, of the Positivists.

                               FROM RICHARD CONGREVE.

                                                                     9 July, 1884.
     I have not read either the attack on you or your reply in
the Nineteenth Century, which, I hear, is a strong attack on our
religious system. But I hear also that you express yourself as
not having wished to make that attack, but rather, from a
friendly feeling, personally to have wished to put by your
objection. In response to that friendly feeling, (I write, as you
see, on hearsay), I wish to say that I regret the attack made
on you. Better quietly work out our own work and leave
it to time for the decision between them. I have no faith in

such discussion on the highest subject of human interest. . . .

   Nineteenth Century, June.           - National Review, June.
                    3 Saturday Review, 7 June.
256 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvm.

May I add that for another reason I regret anything which
tends to alienate you. Your utterances on social and, especially
imperial questions have been of a nature to obscure other

differences between us.

     He left for Scotland on August i, having as his guests
Miss Lott and her cousin, Miss Glover. After a few days

at Kinloch Rannoch, they went by Kingussie and Fort
William to Oban. London was reached early in September.

                                To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                                                                9 September, 1884.

     I inclose you something which will, I think, make you rub
your hands and laugh. Harrison, evidently made revengeful

by my treatment of the Religion of Humanity, has seized the

...occasion of the anniversary of Comte's death to deliver an
address which he has sent to the daily papers.               I inclose

a report of his address, as well as my own reply. [Times and
Standard^ 9 September.] Never was a man more completely
u hoist with his own petard." He intended to do me an
immense mischief ; instead of which he has done an immense

mischief to himself and an immense benefit to me.
You will see that he has given me an occasion for bringing
out incidentally, and quite naturally, a correction of the current
notion respecting my relations to Darwin ; that he has afforded
me the opportunity of giving an account of the genesis of the

Synthetic Philosophy ; and further, that he has enabled me to
publish Mill's testimony, which I could not otherwise have
published. . . . Nothing more fortunate for me in the shape
of rectification of errors could, indeed, have happened.

15 September. Herewith I enclose you a second letter pub-
lished this morning in the Times and the Standard in reply to
a skilfully written letter of Harrison's.
I send it partly because you will be interested, and partly
because you may find use for the second part of
                                                             it,   which

gives brief sketch of the origin and nature of the Synthetic
Philosophy. This will serve to give people in small space
a                                                                      a
           a

               It

                         is
                             a
dim conception how the thing originated and what             it    is  as
                                                               it
whole.                          further piece of good fortune since enables
                                                         a;
me to circulate among multitudes of people general notion
which would otherwise never reach them.

                                 FROM RICHARD POTTER.

                                                                               15 September, 1884.

        have just read your letter in to-day's Times and Standard.
  congratulate you upon complete success. You have proved
your case, and, better than that, you have conquered your
adversary by superior temper and by perfect courtesy. . . .
I
     I

                                                      a
1883-85]  Religious Discussion         257

...Don't give him any further notice.  If you add mag-
nanimity to courtesy your victory is still more conspicuous.
Now, you know full well, that I am a disinterested spectator
and not a partisan of either Philosophy. I have a powerful
affection for you and none for Harrison, and I have a deep
interest in your good name and happiness, but I am not one

of the disciples or believers in your Philosophy, nor in Comtism
either. I am unable to accept either the one or the other as
a substitute for the Christianity which I have been reared in.

     Like several others, Dr. Youmans feared that the con-
troversy as to his relation to Comte, coming as it did
before the discussion on religion had died away, was going
to cost too much, however advantageous it might be in
some respects.

                               To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                                      6 October, 1884.

     The Harrison business, as you say, has been a sad loss of

...time, and I almost regret having said anything about it.

However, the thing is over now. . . .
     The result of this second controversy on the back of the

other, was that I was so far delayed in completing the article
for the Nineteenth Century that it did not make its appearance
this month. . . . The whole matter will in so far as I am
concerned (and I think also in so far as Harrison is concerned)

be ended by this next article.

     The second controversy, affording as it did an oppor-

tunity for giving an outline of the nature and origin of the
Synthetic Philosophy, suggested the expediency of publish-
ing the portion of the Autobiography dealing with his educa-
tion and with the various steps that led eventually to the
conception of evolution. The letter proceeds to weigh the

reasons for and against present publication.

     I feel more and more the difficulty of publishing the thing
during my own life. . . . And yet, on the other hand . . .
there are such strong reasons for not delaying the publication
of the essential parts until after my death. There is first of
all the educational effect. Now that the pestilent cramming

system and the pestilent mechanical methods are becoming
more and more organized and made universal by our State-
system, which threatens to include all classes and put every-
body under inspection, I feel more and more the importance
258 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvm.

of placing before people a picture of the opposite system and
its effects ; and it seems to be a pity that the publication of
such evidence as might modify their views should be postponed
perhaps ten or fifteen years until I am gone. And then there
is the better understanding of the general doctrine of Evolution

...which would result from placing its successive stages of growth
before people in the biographical form.                   So that apart from

the rectification of erroneous conceptions respecting supposed
relations to Darwin and Comte, I feel that there are strong
reasons for not delaying. And yet on the other hand, as I say,
I neither feel that I can properly suspend other work, nor can
I with satisfaction to myself publish a full Autobiography.

    30 October. In a day or two I shall send you a copy of
the pamphlet I am re-issuing u Reasons for dissenting from
the philosophy of M. Comte." Under existing circumstances
I have thought well to detatch this from the Essay on Classifi-
cation. . . . Now that I have got through all my fights and
worries for my last words with Harrison are coming out in
the Nineteenth Century just about to be issued I am hopeful
of being able to set to on my permanent work with tolerable
vigour. I shall rejoice to get to   for has been standing
I

                                                it,
                                                      it
idle and am weary of distractions.

                      FROM E. L. YOUMANS.

                                          11 November, 1884.

In regard to the Harrison controversy and his forthcoming

...book, seems to me that your policy to entirely ignore
it                    I                                                                        a

                                                 is                                                   it
from this time on.    recognize the force of all you say

respecting the desirableness of bringing out .the full account
of the genesis of the Evolution Philosophy, and to reinforce
those views of education to which present tendencies give
undoubted importance. Yet  think no question of
                           I                                                                   few

                                       a
years' advantage should be allowed feather's weight against

the far greater advantages of developing as far as possible, your
main work. . . .

     Every further step in the exposition of the Synthetic Philo-
sophy will be permanent gain to the world, and transient
    a

considerations should not be allowed to interfere with it.

                      To E. L. YOUMAXS.

I                                                                                              January, 1885.

                                                   .
                                                        .

                                        .a

                                                                                 ;

                                                                                            3
find lying for me the last number of the Popular Science
Monthly. You make
                      telling presentation of the question
between Harrison and myself as usual, seizing the essential

points very clearly.
1883-85]  Religious Discussion  259

     I enclose a leaf from the Journal of Education containing
a paragraph which will amuse you. 1

     13 January. The long interval since I heard from you leads
me to fear that you are ill, or at any rate suffering seriously
from the cold weather. Pray go South. If it is a question
of money, take possession of the half year's balance due to
me. I do not want it.

     On the same day the anxiously looked for letter came.
In it Dr. Youmans broached the question of the republica-

tion of the controversy \vith Harrison.

                               FROM E. L. YOUMAXS.
                                                                     2 January, 1885.

     And now we have something of a new embarrassment upon
which I must consult you. There is a pretty sharp demand
for the publication of your controversy with Harrison in a
separate form, and the publishers favour it. The question is
not simply whether it is desirable, for we cannot control it.
There is danger that it will be done by others, and if that
should occur it would be construed as a triumph of the
Harrison party the Spencerians having declined to go into it.

    If I thought no one else would print the correspondence
I should be in favour of our not doing it. In the first place,

for general effect Rhetoric against Reason counts as about
ten to one. The Comtists are reviving Harrison is coming
over to lecture in this country, and much will be made of his
brilliant conduct of the controversy. In the next place, he has
this advantage of you. Your main work bearing upon the issue
is to be sought elsewhere, while Harrison had accumulated
all the materials of his assault and gives his whole case, so that
the popular effect could not fail to be much in his favour.
To the narrower circle of readers, who can really appreciate
the discussion, the republication would undoubtedly be an
excellent thing, and I suppose after all it is only these that
we should much care for. On the whole it may be politic
to reprint What do you think about it ?

                            To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                    14 January, 1885.
     After sending you off my note yesterday in some anxiety
about your state, I was glad to get a letter from you this
morning which relieved me a little, though not fully, for it

    1 This referred to the award of a prize given by the Journal "for the
best list of the seven greatest living English Educationists." Spencer
heads the list to which the prize was awarded. He also had the highest
number of votes, Professor Bain be'n^ next.
260 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvm.

appears that the winter is telling upon you, if not in a renewed
pulmonary attack, still in other ways.
Why will you, against your better knowledge, yield to this
American mania of sacrificing yourself in trying to do more
work ? You accept in theory the gospel of relaxation ; why
can you not act upon it ? What is the use of both abridging
life, and making it full of physical miseries, all in the hope
of achieving a little more ; and eventually being baulked of
your hope by the very eagerness to achieve ? You have done
quite enough already in the way of working for the public
good. Pay a little regard to yourself and let things drift. . . .
Excuse my plain speaking, but it is grievous to me to see you

deliberately killing yourself.
I quite agree to the reprinting of the Harrison controversy.
I have telegraphed to you to-day suggesting the announcement
...of the reprint forthwith, and saying that I will send you some
notes. Many points in his articles,        it is worth while to

rectify now that there is an opportunity.

     15 January. I send herewith the chapters to be reprinted,
with sundry notes to one of them notes which are most,
if not all of them, rectifications of Mr. Harrison's misstatements.

     I presume that though you do not feel up to writing an
introduction, yet you will think it desirable to affix a brief
preface, stating the reasons for republication. I should like
this to be done, because I do not want to let it be erroneously
thought that the republication is at my own instance. If you
say, as you tell me, that there has arisen a demand for the

articles in a permanent form, and that, in the absence of a pub-
lication by the Appletons, there would shortly have been an
issue by another publisher ; if you say that, finding this to be

the case, you applied to me for my assent, it will meet the
requirement. Further, you might add that having agreed to
the republication, I had furnished you with the materials for
some notes to one of the chapters, rectifying sundry of Mr.
Harrison's misstatements. 1 These notes I give you in such
form as occurs to me ; leaving you to modify the form as you
please. As I thus simply draw your attention to the errors and
rectifications, you may, if you recast the notes, see well to put
your initials to them.

     I send you not only the article to which I have appended
these notes, but also all the articles ; that they may be re-
printed from the originals as printed here.

     1 Note by Spencer. " Because, though I had originally not noticed
them, from lack of space, I did not agree to further diffusion of them
in a permanent form without correction."
1883-85]  Religions Discussion                                           261

    21 January. It occurs to me that in the absence of careful
instructions, the printers may make some mistakes with regard
to the order of the articles, and that therefore it is well just
to put the contents of the proposed republication in what seems
to me the proper order, with what I propose should be the

prefixed and affixed portions.

          FROM E. L. YOUMANS.

                                         27 January, 1885.

    I deeply appreciate your solicitude about my imperilled
health, and your generous offer of means to go into safer
...conditions. But that is not my difficulty ; so long as I hang
on to the Monthly my living is assured.          I was very glad of
your decision. In two hours after its reception, the articles
were on their way to the printers. . . . We have letters in-
quiring for them. I think it will be well to issue them at the

end on general grounds.

     The volume was published by Messrs. D. Appleton and
Co., under the title " The Nature and Reality of Religion,"

a copy being sent to Mr. Harrison, who forthwith wrote

to Spencer (26 May) : "As I shall have something to say

about this publication, I ought first to ask you, whether

it has been made with your knowledge, or has your

approval ; and in particular whether you know anything

of the notes and matter appended to my articles, or if you

now adopt them." In his reply next day Spencer stated the

circumstances which led to the publication, and his own

connexion with it and responsibility for it. Mr. Harrison

could not see that there was anything in this explanation

to justify Spencer in being a party to the reprint of his
articles without his knowledge or consent. " May I ask if

it is proposed to hand you the profits of a book of which

I am (in part) the     author, or are these to        be retained
by your American                                   "  This letter,
                       publishers  and   friend
                                                 ?

appearing in the Times (29 May), made it necessary that
Spencer should now publish the letter he had written

to  Mr. Harrison two   mdaeyrcsenbaerfyorem. otiIvnesd. oin"gAsskoinhge  referred
to  the imputation of                                                    whether

I have any share in the profits, Mr. Harrison, not only by
...this, but by his title 'A New Form of Literary Piracy'
tacitly suggests that I have.            If three gentlemen

appointed in the usual way decide that under the circum-
262 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvm.

stances, as stated to me by Professor Youmans, I was not
justified in the course I took, I will, if Mr. Harrison wishes

   request Messrs. Appleton to suppress the book and
it,
                                                                                   will make good their
                                                                                I
destroy the stereotype plates, and

loss to them." And on the 2nd June, on which date Mr.

Harrison intimated in the Times that he would not pursue

the matter further, nor would insist on Spencer's fair offer

to submit to arbitration, Spencer telegraphed to the Times
from Clovelly " Rather than have any further question
           it

                        :

with Mr. Harrison, and rather than have supposed that
                                                                                   it
                                                                                          I
I  intentionally ignored his copyright claim,                                                have tele-

graphed to Messrs. Appleton to stop the sale, destroy the
stock and plates, and debit me with their loss." This was

followed next day by letter to the Times June), in which
                               a                                                   (4

rheepuabclikcnaotiwolne.dged"    that he  was  wrong in assenting to                                 the
                               My mind    was  so engrossed with the                                 due

presentation of the controversy that the question of copy-
right never occurred to me. . Hence my error. But my
                           I
                                                                 .
                                                                            .

                                                                                        I
error does not, think, excuse Mr. Harrison's insult. By

cancelling the rest of the edition and the plates,                                                 have

done all that remains possible to rectify the effects of my

mistake."

   On reading this Mr. Harrison disclaimed any intention

of bringing against Spencer charge of desiring money profita
out of the reprint, and regretted the use of any words which

produced that impression. Meanwhile Spencer wrote to Dr.

Youmans, sending him copies of the correspondence.

                               To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                               ILFRACOMBE, June, 1885.
   98

               II

                                                                                                  2

                                                                                     I
                                                                                        it
    You were doubtless greatly astonished by my telegram to
the Appletons telling them to stop selling the Harrison book.
You will be less astonished after reading the enclosed. The
thing as you see has had very awkward results here.
                                                                                                   ought

to have foreseen them.

   June.                   have nothing further to say respecting the

Harrison business, except that on the part of many                                                   has

produced a greater cordiality of behaviour to me than they
have ever shown before.

   June.   returned home last night, and early this morning

learnt that in the Standard of Saturday last, there was, in
1883-85)              Religious Discussion                     263

a telegram from New York, a statement to the effect that
Messrs. Appleton decline to destroy the stock and plates of the
reprinted controversy (as I had telegraphed them to do) on
the score that the book would be reprinted by some other
publisher. In this expectation they are probably right. . . .
One word respecting the proposal of the Appletons to share
the author's profits between Mr. Harrison and myself. If any
have at present accrued, or
                                     in consequence of refusal to do
as have above requested, any should hereafter accrue, thenif,
I                                       I
    I
wish to say that having been, and being now, absolutely
indifferent to profit in the matter, shall decline to accept any
portion of the returns.

This last letter was sent to Mr. Harrison to be posted by
                                  telegram from New York, stating that
him after perusal.     A

the book had been suppressed, was supposed by Spencer to

be "the   last act in  this disagreeable   drama." Mr. Harrison
had also   expressed    the hope that      " time may re-establish

friendly relations."

                      To FREDERIC HARRISON.

                                             13 utie, 1885.
On Thursday night received a telegram from America,:J
                         it                        it I I I
                           I                              is
containing the words "Book suppressed on receipt of first  I
telegram." Whence appears that the correspondent of the

Standard was in some way or other misinformed.
Referring to your note received on Thursday, will do my
best to think no more of what has passed, though shall have
considerable difficulty in doing this. You are possibly unaware
of the chief cause of the feeling which was aroused in me last
year, and has survived down to the present time. Most likely

you have thought of as an effect of controversial antagonism,
       I

                a

                              it
which have too persistently manifested. But this not so.
That you may understand the cause of alienation,
                                                  must set

before you series of facts.

     After giving an account of the origin of the Descriptive
Sociology, of the time and labour bestowed on and the

heavy financial loss involved absorbing all the surplus

proceeds of his literary work during fourteen years, and
compelling him to deny himself comforts he could other-
wise have afforded, the letter goes on to say

For all these sacrifices             got no thanks. . . . But  little
                       I
                             I
                                  I
foresaw that they would bring to me something very much
                                  little dreamed that the time, labour,
the reverse of thanks.

health, and money had expended for the benefit of others,
264 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvni.

would become the occasion of a reproach. When you spoke
              "medley"    of tables as "a
oofrdtehris"                                 pile of clippings made to
                when by  this and by your    comparison to the lawyer
you conveyed the belief (a belief which was circulated in
America) that I was dishonest enough to present the world with
a garbled body of evidence, and foolish enough to suppose
that I could in that way bolster up false conclusions, you gave
me a deep wound. Such a wound, given even to one who had
not in various ways injured himself for good ends, would be
sufficiently severe ; but coming on one who, for so long a time,

had suffered various evils to discharge an honourable obligation

and achieve a public benefit, was too serious to be easily healed.
     The recent incident has of course not tended to further the
healing, and you can hardly suppose that I can forthwith
establish anything like cordial relations with one who has
inflicted on me immeasurably more pain than has been in-
flicted by any other man. But I will do my best ; and time
may obliterate the impression produced by what has passed.

Mr. Harrison hastened to express regret that he had

Scoacuisoelodgy.anno"yNanocthe ingby    his   remarks about the Descriptive
                                      was    further from my thought than

that you had in any sense garbled the evidence, or had

any object other than the honourable pursuit of truth.

What I said referred solely to the philosophic value of a

particular method of proof. . . . But where you have given
so much to the cause of truth, I can reckon the ' Tables '

as amongst the least of your gifts."

     The course adopted by Spencer was very disconcerting

to his friends in New York. "All the newspaper demon-

strations have been regularly cabled to      us with  tormenting
incompleteness," wrote Dr. Youmans.          " I am   profoundly

sorry about the transaction, and that any agency of mine

should have got you into so annoying and disagreeable

a position. I care nothing about it for myself, but I care

something for the rights and justice of the case ; and as at

present advised I shall not be satisfied to leave it where it

is left by your order of suppression."

                               To E. L. YOUMAXS.
                                                                        23 June, 1885.

     The thing has been a series of blunders from the beginning.

If instead of telegraphing you at once in reply to your letter
in January, I had duly thought all round the matter, I might

have known that something of the kind which has happened
1883-85]  Religious Discussion                       265

would be likely to happen. . . . The essential reason why I
took the course I did was, that in consistency I felt bound to
respect an equitable claim to copyright, and not to countenance
a transaction which implicates me in disregard of that claim.
As I have explained, I was so engrossed at the time by the
thought of the correct presentation of the controversy, which
threatened to be incorrectly reproduced, that the notion of
copyright never entered into my head so little did it do so
that the publication of Harrison's letter, for the first time
revealed this to me as a grievance. . . . But having been
reminded that this was a ground of complaint, I admitted it ;
since I cannot consistently contend for international copyright
without myself recognizing the claim to international copy-
right, even though the law does not ; and consequently I ought
not to implicate myself in any transaction which ignores it.
I therefore felt that I had made a mistake (quite unconsciously)
in overlooking this claim, and that for that reason I ought

properly to signalize the fact by suppressing the book.

On learning that Dr. Youmans was preparing a vindi-

cation of the conduct of Spencer,    the Appletons,  and him-
self throughout the transaction, he  intimated that  " it would

be undesirable to let it be issued here very undesirable.

The matter has dropped through."

                               To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                  STOTT PARK, ULVERSTONE, 28 /H/V, 1885.

     I got the proofs just as I was leaving town. . . .
     I do not see why you are so dissatisfied with the article.
I think it very clear and effective, and so do my friends here.
When I wrote in reply to your previous two letters, and said
that, however good it might be, its republication here would
be impolitic, I was too egotistically occupied with my own
share in the matter. I did not bear in mind that you and the
Appletons have good reason to wish for the publication as
a means of justifying yourselves to the English public.
    If this can be done in such way as to leave me out of the
question, I shall be glad ; but I continue averse to anything
which may look like a revival of the matter in my interests. *

    A cheque sent to Mr. Harrison for his proportion of

profit on the sales made before the book was suppressed

     1 Dr. Youmans's vindication appeared in the Popular Science Monthly
for August, and has been reprinted in Edward Livingston Youmans,
pp. 562-83. It includes the correspondence between Mr. Harrison and
Spencer published in the Times.
266 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvm.

served to rekindle the dying embers of the controversy.

In a letter in the Times (7 October) Mr. Harrison declined
the cheque, while recognizing the honourable motives

of Messrs. Appleton. Spencer thought the occasion a good

one for a letter from Dr. Youmans. The aim of this letter,

which appeared in the Times of i6th November, was to

correct certain mistaken impressions and to point out

"difUfinctuilltieisnteerxnpaetrioiennacledcobpyyfraigirh-mt icnodmeeds  American publishers.
                                                                          we cannot have its

salutary fruits." In a more or less dissentient leader the

Times thought that Dr. Youmans rather unduly enhanced

the publisher's liability and effaced Mr. Spencer's.

As was expected, the suppressed book could not be

suppressed. The first intimation Spencer had of its re-

issue was towards the end of October, in a letter from

Dr. Youmans, to whom he wrote: "Respecting the re-issued

volume it is very well that you did not let me know any-

thing about so am left free from any kind of respon-
          I

                A

                       it,
                              I
                                                                        it
                                                                             is
                                                                                               a
sibility."  few days before Christmas he got copy

of The nsuppressible Book, edited, with comments by Gail
Hamilton, and published by S. E. Cassino and Co., of

Boston.

With all this turmoil and vexation                                      surprising that
he was able to complete " Ecclesiastical Institutions," which

was published in the autumn of 1885.

    The death of "George Eliot" in December, 1880, re-

vived the rumours, already heard occasionally in this country

and frequently in the United States, that Spencer had been

in love with her. These stories had for years caused

him great annoyance. Feeling that he could not himself

do anything to contradict these absolutely untrue state-

ments, he laid the matter in strict confidence before his

friends, Professors Huxley and Tyndall, Mr. Potter, and

Dr. Youmans, in order that they, knowing the facts, should,

the rumour were repeated in their hearing, privately con-
if
           it it,

                                                    1
                                                            1

                                                                                                                        a
tradict     leaving such private contradiction to have what

effect      might in checking its further circulation. The
forthcoming Life of " George Eliot " seemed to furnish

            Published early in 1885.
1883-85]  Religious Discussion  267

suitable opportunity for giving an authoritative denial to
the report, and he was anxious that a note to this effect
should be inserted in the book. IVJr. Cross at first agreed,
but eventually, after some correspondence, no such note
was inserted. The reasons for its omission are thus

referred to by Spencer :

                               To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                          4 February, 1885.
     George Eliot's Life has just come out, and is being read by
everybody satisfactory enough in so far as concerns myself
in many respects, it is unsatisfactory in that respect about

which I wrote you some years ago the report that I had
been in love with her.

     After consulting with friends here at the time I wrote
you Huxley, Tyndall and Potter, to whom, as to you, I told
the actual facts of the case in strict confidence I, acting on
their advice, requested Cross, as the least thing that could be
done, to put in a note denying this report. To this he
assented, being able fully to do so, not on the basis of my
authority only, but on the basis of her authority. When the
time came, we differed with regard to the wording of the
note : I wishing a simple denial of the report, and no-
thing more ; he wishing to frame it in another way, but a
way to which I was obliged to object, because it would imply
something that was not true. Eventually, a note vaguely
worded, repudiating all of whatever reports had been in cir-
culation, was agreed to ; but ' when the book was passing
through the press, and the proofs were seen by Lord Acton
and Sir Charles Bowen (the judge), this note was objected
to by them as one which was likely to cause gossip. Of course
he [Mr. Cross] was master of the situation, and as he would not
so far modify it as to make it simply the denial I wished, and as
the form which he reluctantly would have assented to, was one
which made the matter still more liable to the misinterpretation
I wished to exclude, the note was finally abandoned.

     Cross argued that the indirect evidence would amply suffice
to refute the report. I think wrhen you come to look at the
state of the case, and such extracts as are given from April
1852 onward, you will see that this is by no means the fact,
and that any one who had previously accepted the report,
would find nothing to dissipate his belief in it.

     As I said to Cross in the course of a correspondence we
had at the time when the note was finally cancelled, he had
the opportunity of saying by a few words which he could
give on double authority, that the statement, as it had been
268 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xvm.

current, was utterly unfounded ; and yet he deliberately has
not done this, and has left it to remain current, if not even to
be confirmed ; for it seems to me that some may take the facts
as they stand rather as verification than otherwise. . . .
Though he was able with facility to rectify the matter, I can-
not do so ; and had no means of correcting such absurd mis-
statements as those which you told me had been current in
America, and, so far as I see, shall never have the means of
doing this.

     Spencer's relations with " George Eliot," and his very
high appreciation of her character and mental endowments
have been dealt with in the Autobiography (i., 394-9).
                                                       269

                            CHAPTER XIX.

     THE FACTORS OF ORGANIC EVOLUTION.

                   (January, 1886 September, 1889.)

     THE working out of what he regarded as his final addi-
tion to the general doctrine of evolution was well advanced

by about the middle of January, 1886.

                            To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                                  19 January, 1886.

the  The    ofifrs"t    of  the Darwin articles, which will            appear   under
     title            The   Factors of Organic Evolution," I           expect  to take

to the printers to-day, and the other is commenced. As there
will be a good deal of biological detail in                            shall submit for
                                                                  iIt,
                                                                                           it

criticism to some experts Flower and Michael Foster among
others. Whether                                  shall ask Huxley and Hooker to look
            it,

              I

                         is

                         I

                                              ;
through               do not know for they are somewhat my antag-
                                                 r
                                                    ;

onists in the matter having always been opponents of the
belief that there inheritance of functionally-produced modifi-
cations or rather, having always slighted the belief as one for
which there no adequate evidence.is

    To his German translator he thus states the purport of

the articles.

                                                 To B. VETTER.

                                                                  19 January, 1886.

     They will be in the main criticism upon the current con-
                                                       a

                                                               ;
ception of Mr. Darwin's views showing that this conception
erroneous in ignoring altogether one of the beliefs set forth
is
                  a
by Dr. Erasmus Darwin and by Lamarck the belief that the
inheritance of organic modifications produced by use and disuse,
has been cause of evolution. The thesis of the first paper
will be that this cause has been all along co-operative cause,
                                                                  a

and that in its absence, all the higher stages of organic evolu-
tion would have been impossible.
     The    stehceondfacptoapr erofwi"ll          have for its object  to point out that
besides                                          natural selection,"   now exclusively
270 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xix.

recognized, and besides the factor previously alleged, which
has of late been improperly ignored, there is yet a third factor,
preceding the other two in order of time, and universally co-
operative with them from the beginning, which has to be taken
into account before all the phenomena of organization can be
understood a factor which has to be recognized before organic
evolution is rightly conceived as forming a part of evolution

at large.

                             To T. H. HUXLEY.

                                                                   26 January, 1886.

     Here is something to exasperate you. There has never
been any sympathy between us in respect of the doctrine
defended in the accompanying article ; and I remember within
this year an utterance of opinion which seemed to imply that
there was not much chance of approximation.

     Regarding you as in this matter an antagonist, I felt for
some time a good deal of hesitation as to the propriety of
submitting lucubrations of mine to your criticism. But I have
finally concluded that to break through the long standing usage,
in pursuance of which I have habitually submitted my biological
writing to your castigation, and so often profited by so doing,
would seem like a distrust of your candour a distrust w?hich I
cannot entertain. I therefore, as in times long gone by, beg of
you such attention as is needed to glance through the inclosed
proof, and let me benefit by any objections you have to make.

                              FROM T. H. HUXLEY.

                                                                   31 January, 1886.
     Mind, I have no a priori objection to the transmission of
functional modifications whatever. In fact, as I told you, I
should rather like it to be true. But I argued against the
assumption (with Darwin as I do with you) of the operation of
a factor which, if you will forgive me for saying so, seems as
far off sufficiently trustworthy evidence now as ever it was.

                     To T. H. HUXLEY.

                                                    3 February, 1886.

     Pray accept my apology along with my thanks for the benefit
of your criticisms, sundry of \vhich I am utilizing to guard myself

against objections.
    You will                                                     that I remain
               "seae,hahrodweneevder,    from this  admission    I mean. And
substantially                          unbeliever"    believer,

now see how good deeds bring their evils. Here is a batch
of comments as long as, or longer than, your criticisms. How-

ever, you are not obliged to read them unless you care to do so.
I write them to show why on sundry points I still think the

positions taken are defensible.
1886-89] Factors of Organic Evolution               271

     With the first revise proof of the second of the articles
he wrote to Dr. Yoiimans : " This, I suspect, will be my
last addition to the theory of Evolution. After sixty-five
one cannot expect to do more than write out one's ideas
previously arrived at." He advised Professor Huxley when
criticizing the second article to confine himself to marginal
notes suggesting that perhaps " there needs only one mar-
ginal note." ]

                             To T. H. HUXLEY.

                                                                      23 March, 1886.
     Thank you heartily for your criticisms, " captious and can-
tankerous," as you admit them to be. But what a lover of
lighting you are ! Here you confess that you castigate my
heterodoxies with a view to better fitting them to disturb the
orthodox.
     Various of your criticisms lead me to make alterations that
shall shut the door to mis-apprehension ; and sundry alterations
of more substantial kinds. While I make them, I jot down for
my own satisfaction, certain comments which you may or may
not read as you please.

     When sending this article as finally revised he told
Dr. Youmans (24 March) :

     Flowrer made no objections at all ; Michael Foster none
of any moment. Huxley has badgered me in detail a good
deal, and hence most of the alterations contained in this proof.
But, though he does not commit himself to my view, he has
not said anything which tends to undermine it.

On reading the articles Dr. Arthur Downes was struck

by the bearing on Spencer's views of some original work

which he and Mr. Blunt had published in the Proceedings
                                                    Two
of the Royal Society in 1877 and subsequent years.
or three of these papers were sent to Spencer.

                              To ARTHUR DOWNES.

                                                                                 10 May, 1886.
     The marked passages, of course, were specially interesting
to me as shewing experimentally and in a specific way, the

occurrence of an effect wrhich I had inferred a priori.
     The two articles as published in the Nineteenth Century

Life of Professor Huxley, 127.ii.
272 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xix.

were written with the intention of republishing them in a
permanent form after such interval as the editor agrees to :
and I should very well like to make an appendix of some of the

passages contained in your two papers, as verifying certain

parts of my argument.

     In consequence of pressure of space, the editor of the
Nineteenth Century induced me to abridge the articles. Among
passages which I had to take out, were two in which I have
commented upon a fact to which I see you in another way

refer : namely that protoplasm is habitually found inside of
a protecting envelope. . . . These passages I cut out will,
of course, be restored in the permanent form of the articles.
I name them now because otherwise it may seem to you that
I have utilized certain suggestions contained in your papers
without acknowledgment.  I cannot send you as I should
like to do, a proof of the article in its unabridged form : for,
when the abridged proof came back from the Nineteenth Century,

I threw it into the waste-paper basket as done with. But the
printer has the type standing, and no doubt has also impres-

sions at hand of the articles as they stood before abridgment.

If you care to do so, I should very well like if you would
some day when it is convenient^ call upon me at the Athenaeum,
and go with me to the printers to see that this is so.

     When sending the    present  writer a   copy of   the   above,
Dr. Downes remarked      that it  " seems   to afford   a   curious

proof of his careful attention to detail, and of a highly

scrupulous and punctilious character. I was unable to

call upon him and never saw him, but I wrote to thank

him and to say how unnecessary was the proposed visit

to the printer."

                  To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                            19 March, 1886.

The copyright question is being revived here. There exists
a body, . . . consisting of publishers and authors, for advanc-
ing the question, and a few days ago it sent a deputation to
Mr. Mundella. . . . Their aim is to get an international copy-
right recognized in such form as that they can purchase the
...author's copyright here and with it include the copyright
abroad.  If this is allowed, the author will get scarcely

anything more for his copyright than if there were no inter-
national copyright. . . . The American bill should enact that
no copyright, save one held by the foreign author, can be

recognized in America, . . . and directly or by implication,

enact that copyright negociations must be direct between the

foreign author and the American publisher.
1886-89] Factors of Organic Evolution  273

     Spencer's depression about this time was extreme.
Many of his most intimate friends were, like himself, ill.
Professor Tyndall was not far from the truth when he

said : "It would seem as if we were all breaking up

together." In a letter to Professor Huxley in March
Spencer mentions that he had been to see Professor
Tyndall.

     In the course of conversation I suggested that yachting
would be the thing yachting about the coasts with the ability
to go into port every night so as to get quiet rest. Afterwards
thinking about this, it occurred to me that such a thing would
be admirable also for you and for me. We all three of us
want a lounging life in the open air, with just enough variety
to keep us alive, and the exhilarating effects of a little pleasant
company. I do not see, too, why the thing would not suit my
friend Potter. What do you say to our chartering a yacht for
a couple of months . . . and going hither and thither about
the coasts of the English Channel, including Jersey, Guernsey,
the Scilly Islands, &c.

     Recalling the Nile expedition, one feels inclined to say
that had the suggestion been carried out Spencer would
have been the first to run away. When this idea had to
be given up he took rooms near the Crystal Palace. But
the move did him no good. Another project was unfolded

to Miss Flora Smith. "A while since I had hoped to profit

by taking up my abode at the Pavilion Hotel, Folkestone,
and going backwards and forwards to France every day for
the benefit of the sea air, motion and liveliness. But I was
balked by the opening of the Folkestone Exhibition." His
idea now was to get Mr. and Miss Lott to join him at some
sea-side resort. This also came to nothing owing to the
illness of his friend having taken an unexpected turn for
the worse.

                                To EDWARD LOTT.
                                                                            1 July, 1886.

     MY DEAR OLD FRIEND, When I saw you, the last Christ-
mas but one, I little thought it would be the last time we

 should shake hands.

      It is grievous to me to think of losing my oldest and best
friend ; and now that I am myself very much invalided, the
consciousness of the loss will make me feel that life, not very

 attractive to me now-a-days at the best, is made less attractive

           18
274  Life of Herbert Spencer    [CHAP. xix.

 than before. It has been clear to me that for months past the
 pains you have had to bear, bodily and mental, have greatly
 outbalanced such small satisfactions as the days brought ; and
 now the sad accounts I receive of you, show me that your

 hours, passed in almost continuous suffering, must make life
a great burden.

     If as I fear, there is now no hope that I shall ever hear

from you again, and have the pleasure of responding, pray
accept this as the last good-bye of your sorrowing old friend.

    [If in time, to be read to him or not, according as is thought

best.]

     Before this letter arrived Mr. Lott had breathed liis last.

Beginning before Spencer's career as a writer was thought
of by Mr. Lott, or was more than a vague possibility to
Spencer himself, the friendship between them had never
wavered during five and forty years.

     While mourning the loss of one friend, lie was full of
apprehension about another; who, with a loyal devotion
rarely equalled and never surpassed, had stood by him for
over a quarter of a century.

                              FROM E. L. YOUMAXS.
                                                                     5 July, 1886.

     All the indications are decisive, that I can hold on but a
little longer and must leave things much as they are. I wish
I could write you about many matters that have heretofore
been of interest between us, but it cannot be, and is perhaps
just as well. Good or bad, whatever is done is done. I
was very much touched by the slip you sent me in your note
of May 8, from your Autobiographic sketches, 1 speaking so
highly of the work I have done. The recognition is most
gratifying, and I thank you for your kindness and generosity
in making it. I have done nothing myself that will have any
claim to survive ; but I shall be fully content to be remembered
through this noble tribute from a man of justice, who knows
the purposes by which I have been animated in my life-work.

                            To E. L. YOUMAXS.
                                                                   20 July, 1886.

     I was much saddened yesterday to receive a verification of
the fears I have been for some weeks entertaining, that your

silence was due to illness. . . .

     It is well, however, that you can take so calm a view of the
matter as your description and reflections imply ; and it may

     1 Autobiography, ii., 53.
                    1886-89] Factors of Organic Evolution                                                    275

I                   be that when life has to be carried on under the conditions;
                    you describe, the desire for continuance of it may fitly
                   ;decrease. . . .                                                                        it
                                                                                                                     it,
                          This is the view taken by the relatives of one who has just
                    left us my old and valued friend Lott. . . . You saw enougha
                    of him to know what a fine nature he had. . . .        I

                         However, I, like you, take a calm view of the matter. I
                    value life for little else than my work ; and had I finished

                       should care little about the issue. . . .
                         Whatever comes, we may at any rate both of us have some

                    satisfaction in the consciousness of having done our work con-
                    scientiously, prompted by high motives and whenever ends,
                    the friendship between us may be looked back upon by the
                    survivor, as one of the valued things of his life.

                         But more letters may still pass between us, my dear old
                    friend and in that anticipation continue yours with very
                    affectionate regards.

                         The Autobiography was godsend, giving him the neces-
                    sary occupation without overtaxing him. When returning

                    the proof of Chapter XXV. Professor Huxley wrote
                                                                               it
a                   am immensely tickled with your review of your own book
                                                That something most originally Spencerian.is
    .                                                to look back through the vista of yearsa
                    .{So.ciaHl oSwtatiocds'd].  it                                                           !
   I                                                 is                                                   :

                                                              is

                    Reading your account of me had the sensation of studying
                                                                  I
                                                                            I
                    fly in amber.               I  had utterly forgotten the particular circum-

                    stances that brought us together. Considering what wilful
tykes we both are (you particularly), think                                                        great credit

                    to both of us that we are firmer friends now than we were then.

     By September he had made up his mind not to face
the winter in town. The choice lay between Brighton and
Bournemouth, the chief attraction of the latter being the

presence there of Mr. Potter and several members of his

family, "for pine for lack of those care for." Eventually,

however, he decided in favour of Brighton. He was in-

teresting himself about this time in an article Miss Beatrice
Potter was writing, one of her points being that any theory

of economics that overlooks pathology useless.
a

  I
                  II
                                                           I

                                                                        is

                                                                                                2
                       To Miss BEATRICE POTTER.

                                                                                         October, 1886.

     So far as understand them the objections which you are
making to the doctrines of the elder political economists, are

 ...good deal of the kind that have of late years been made, and,

as think, not rightly made.
276 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xix.

     Physiology formulates the laws of the bodily functions in
a state of health, and absolutely ignores pathology cannot take
any account whatever of functions that are not normal. Mean-
while, a rational pathology can come into existence only by
virtue of the previously established physiology which has
ignored it : until there is an understanding of the functions in
health, there is no understanding of them in disease. Further,
when rational pathology has been thus established, the course
of treatment indicated by it is the course which aims as far as
possible to re-establish the normal functions does not aim to
readjust physiology in such way as to adapt it to pathological

states.

     Just so is it with that account of the normal relations of
industrial actions- constituting political economy properly so
called. No account can be taken by it of disorder among
these actions or impediments to them. It cannot recognize
pathological social states at all ; and further, the understanding
of these pathological social states wholly depends upon previous
establishment of that part of social physiology which constitutes
political economy. And, moreover, if these pathological states
are due to the traversing of free competition and free contract,
which political economy assumes, the course of treatment is not
the readjustment of the principles of political economy, but the
establishment as far as possible of free competition and free
contract.

    If as I understand you, you would so modify politico-

economical principles as to take practical cognizance of patho-
logical states, then you would simply organize pathological
states, and things would go from bad to worse.

If he could not enter upon a controversy himself he

would contrive to induce one or other of his friends to do

so, as when he got Professor Huxley to     reply  to  Mr.  Lilly's
article on " Materialism and Morality." 1

                             To T. H. HUXLEY.

                                                                                11 December, 1886.

     I may be proud of what you called my " diabolical plot."
Notwithstanding your characterization, I think that, considering
the result, I may say contrariwise that it has succeeded
divinely. I was greatly amused by your article, which was ad-
mirably adapted to its purpose.

     The friendship between Professor Huxley and Spencer
had, during all these years, withstood the disintegrating

1 Life of Professor Huxley, ii., 144.
1886-89] Factors of Organic Evolution                           277

effect of diversity of opinion on many subjects. Writing in

January,   1887, the former mentions having been         asked to
become    an honorary "something or other" of
                                                         " a body

calling itself the London Schools League           (I think),"  Spencer
and Mrs. Fawcett being also honorary               members.       " Now

you may be sure that I should 'be glad enough to be asso-

ciated with you in anything but considering the innumer-

able battles we have fought over education, vaccination, and

so on it seemed to me that if the programme of the League

was wide enough to take us both for figure heads it must

be so elastic as to verge upon infinite extensibility ; and that
one or other of us would be in a false position." The body

alluded to  was the London Liberty Club. On learning            that
he " was    about to be conspicuously bracketed with            Mrs.
Fawcett," he tells Professor Huxley, " I forthwith wrote to

decline the honour, and as I cannot well give the cold

shoulder to a body which adopts my own particular views

of the functions of government, I have written to exchange

my honorary membership for a paying membership."

    The year 1887 had not gone far on its course when he
was overtaken by a great, though not unexpected, bereave-

ment.

                            To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                              BRIGHTON, 1 January, 1887.

It is a long time since I heard anything about you and I am
getting anxious to have a report. Pray let me know how you
have fared during the cold weather. . . .

Though the day suggests                            absurd for me to wish you,
            a
                          a
                                     it,

                                      it
                                               is
or for you to wish me, happy New Year. There not much
happiness remaining in store for either of us.     a is
Pray dictate few lines when you get this.

     This letter reached Dr. Youmans on the i7th. Next
day Miss Youmans wrote "Yours of January ist reached
            I:
us last night, and when read     '                 to him he spoke very

tenderly of your case and said,   I it             will dictate few lines

to Mr. Spencer to-morrow but before the morning had
                         '
                           ;

fairly dawned he had ceased to breathe." Thus ended one

of the purest and most steadfast friendships the world of

letters has ever seen. From the day on which his life came

first into contact with Spencer's, Dr. Youmans devoted
278 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xix.

himself with rare unselfishness to the promulgation of
evolution doctrines, which were identified in his estimation
with the -highest good of humanity. An earlier American
friend than Dr. Youmans was Mr. Silsbee ; but as far as
one can form an opinion from the perusal of the corre-
spondence, the help rendered by the latter in introducing
Spencer to the American public was inappreciable. In
the proof slip from the Autobiography (ii., 53), sent to
Dr. Youmans on May 8, 1886, Spencer must have placed
a higher value on Mr. Silsbse's efforts than is implied in
the passing reference to him in the passage as finally
adopted. A month or two after her brother's death, Miss
Youmans endeavoured to correct Spencer's misappre-
hension.

                                 FROM Miss YOUMAXS.

                                                                        13. April, 1887.
     In getting the '86 letters for the copyist I came upon the
slip concerning Edward, from your Autobiography, sent him
with such tender forethought last summer. On reading it at
the time, your statement about Mr. Silsbee's early efforts in
your behalf surprised me. I afterwards spoke of it to Edward,
and he confirmed my impression that you were in error, but
when I proposed to tell you about it he said '' Oh, it's a very
small matter," in a tone that discouraged the attempt. . . .
The circular you sent to Mr. Silsbee, he gave to his towns-
man Rev. Mr. Johnson, whom Edward shortly after met at
Mr. Manning's in Brooklyn. Edward started the subject of
your writings which had taken great hold of him, and being
thus reminded of the circular in his vest pocket, Mr. Johnson
at once gave it to Edward saying that Mr. Silsbee, who gave
it him, knew Mr. Spencer personally. . . . Within a week
from the time he met Mr. Johnson, he went to Salem to learn
what he might about you. He found Silsbee, and he told
me last summer that while Mr. Silsbee spoke admiringly of
you, he manifested no enthusiasm about your ideas did not
seem acquainted with them, and up to the time of Edward's
visit, had done nothing but hand your circular to Mr. Johnson ;
and in Edward's opinion he would not of his own accord have
made a movement in the matter. Influenced by Edward, he
did take hold of the work, going to Boston and Cambridge to
get influential names for the subscription ; but (and I mention
it because it bears on the case) Edward said he was never able
to undo the mischief Silsbee wrought in Boston and its suburbs
by his unfortunate aggressive manner of approaching people.
1886-89] Factors of Organic Evolution                             279

He said he never met Dr. Holmes afterward but that gentle-
man alluded to the disagreeable experience the way he was
assailed by Mr. Silsbee in your behalf." 1

     This was Jubilee year. He was invited by Mrs. Jose,
with whom his Aunt Anna lived, to contribute towards

"a very mild feast for the Hintonians as a public com-

memoration." This he was unable to do.

              To MRS. JOSE.

                               ...BRIGHTON, 30 May, 1887.
Do not suppose, however, that  I am unwilling to con-
tribute towards the pleasures and, I hope, the benefits of the
Hintonians. I presume the Hinton library still exists. If so,
I will . . . send you a cheque for ten guineas to be spent in
books (chiefly works of science, and voyages and travels) to be
added to the Hinton library. On the inside of the cover of
each of these books I propose to have pasted the following
inscription.

                                IN REMEMBRANCE OF                 SPENCER.

                THE REV. THOMAS SPENCER, M.A.

                     FOUNDER OF THE HINTON LIBRARY

                                        AND OF OTHER
              INSTITUTIONS FOR THE BENEFIT OF HINTON

                                      THIS VOLUME

                                      IS PRESENTED BY
                              HIS GRATEFUL NEPHEW

                                                         HERBERT

     Owing to circumstances over which he had no control,

it was not till the beginning of 1895 that the gift was
bestowed.

     With improved health came the wish for change of
surroundings. Yachting about the Channel was again
thought of. He longed also for the company of children.
In answer to his pleading, Mrs. W. H. Cripps not only sent
him two of her own, but volunteered to get her married
sisters to spare him one or two of theirs. In this way
began a custom which continued for years cementing still

more closely the bonds of affection between him and the
family of Mr. and Mrs. Potter. In November he went to
Bournemouth. " I have got rooms in the same house as

              1 See also Edward Livingston Youmans, p. 105.
280 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xix.

the Potters, where I shall have the occasional companion-
ship of three generations."

                               To. T. H. HUXLEY.

                                                                                 1 December, 1887.

     The black border on your letter of last week made me open
it in hurried alarm, remembering what you had said respecting
your wife a few days previously. To say that I was relieved on
reading it seems strange considering that it announced the death
of your daughter. But I coincide with the feeling that you
expressed that, considering the hopeless state in which she has
long been, and the probability of continued painful decay, it
was better that the end should come as it did.

     But it is sad to think of so promising a career so early
blighted much successful and enjoyable achievement, joined,
as one may infer, with a great deal of domestic happiness,
closing so early after so much suffering.

He returned to London on the last day of January, 1888,

after eighteen months absence, greatly improved in health,

though not    perhaps  coming     up   to   Professor  Huxley's de-
scription of  him "    as lively       a   cricket."   At the same
                                   as

time there appeared in the Nineteenth Centnrv an article on
"The Struggle for Existence
                                  in Human Society,"   which
Professor Huxley feared had       " made Spencer very  angry

but he knows, I think he has been doing mischief this

long time."

                               To T. H. HUXLEY.

                               38, QUEEN'S GARDENS, 6 February, 1888.

     I have nothing to object, and everything to agree to. In
fact, the leading propositions are propositions that I have
myself enunciated either publicly or privately. It was but the
day before leaving Bournemouth that I was shocking some
members of the circle upstairs at Kilclare by insisting on the
non-moral character of Nature immoral, indeed, I rather think
I called it ; pointing out that for 99 hundredths of the time
life has existed on the Earth (or one might say 999 thousandths),
the success has been confined to those beings which, from
a human point of view, would be called criminal.

     So, too, with the equal readiness of Nature to retrogress
as to progress : see my reply to Martineau and the first part
of the Principles of Sociology.

     Last spring I began to set down a number of leading
thoughts, which I intended to incorporate in the Inductions
of Ethics if ever I lived to write and in the course of was
                                  it,
                                                                          it
1886-89] Factors of Organic Evolution                  281

pointing out that same progression from brute ethics to human
ethics which you have well insisted upon.
     The remaining dominant point in this first division of your
article is one in respect of which I fancy you thought I had

overlooked an important consideration. When, sometime ago,
in a speech, or address I think it was, you referred to those
who insisted on the evils of war, and the need for peace as
a means to higher civilization, and when you pointed out that
the war of the sword had to be followed by the war of the
loom (as one might call it), I fancied that you had me in your
thought. But, I have long ago insisted on the same truth, as
you will see in the Study of Sociology (page 199), where after
admitting that war of the primitive kind by killing off the
inferior races produces a balance of advantage during the
earlier stages, I have gone on to insist that later "the purifying
process, continuing still an important one, remains to be carried
on by industrial war."
     But while I am at one with you in this preliminary argu-
ment, I dissent from the conclusion drawn and from the corol-
laries. So far from believing that there is more misery now
than there has been, I think there is less, and that there is no
pressing need for the measures you allege. The mere fact
that the rate of mortality has been diminishing, seems to me
alone sufficient proof of this. The current impression with
regard to the distress of the lower classes reminds me of a
number of other untrue impressions. During the time when

the mass of the people were profoundly ignorant there was no
recognition whatever of their ignorance ; but when they be-'

came partially instructed there arose an outcry that the nation
was perishing for lack of knowledge, and that State agency
was needful to spread it. Similarly with drinking. While

drunkenness was extremely general there were no protests,
but when sobriety had made considerable advances, there
came an outcry that drunkenness was the root of all evil, and
that the State must step in to prevent it. So, too, with the
position of women. While they were slaves and during the
long ages when they were ill-treated, not a word was said
about their rights, now that they have come to be well treated
the screaming sisterhood make the world ring with their

wrongs, and they scream loudest in America, where women
are treated with the greatest regard. So, I say, is it with the
matter of the distress. Now that the distress is far less than

it used to be, there comes an outcry about its greatness, and
predictions that things will come to a crash unless it is stopped.
     From your proposed measures of course I dissent.  I feel
strongly tempted to write an essay under the title     " The
Struggle for Existence another Programme." But I must
resist the temptation, and economize what little power I have :
282 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xix.

a further motive for refraining being that my criticisms might
cause a coolness between us which I should greatly regret.

     10 February. My anticipation of possible evils, referred
not to some first stage of a controversy as to probable second
stages ; for when once a controversy is commenced there is
no knowing how it will end. We are both of us combative,
and I regarded it as tolerably certain that to my criticism there
would come a rejoinder from you, and again another from me.
The danger of some disturbance of harmony might in such
case become considerable. In oral controversy I have so often
had reason to be vexed with myself for having said things
which I had not supposed I should say at the outset, that I
am getting a little cautious how I run the risk.

     The improvement in health, begun in Bournemouth, was

continued in London. Nevertheless when the X dinner

for March came round he    had         to  stay away. In reply to
Professor Huxley's banter  that            if young men from the
                                        "

country will go plunging into the dissipations of the

Metropolis, nemesis follows," he wrote (10 March) :

It was not that ''life in London" "came over" u the
                                "
young    man from the country      ;   but  he     was   come over by
another   u young man from the                      had  been dining at
                                country."       I

the Athenaeum with Galton, and had quite enough talking, when
suddenly Masson made his appearance. I was very glad to
see him. He joined us at the same table, and there followed
half an hour's animated talking, laughing, and story-telling. . . .
Never mind your strength running to hair instead of to
brains, so long as you are thereby kept out of mischief. If,
following out the parallel of Samson (about whom you seem
to think I know nothing), we could blind you for a while to
all save novels, it might not be a bad thing furthering at once
your own welfare and the peace of mind of your antagonists. 1

It was a curious coincidence that about the time he

was submitting proofs of certain paragraphs of the Auto-
biography containing criticisms on Art to Mr. Philip H.

Calderon, R.A., and to Mr. John Brett, A.R.A., 2 the Archi-
tect (27 January) had a reference to his opinions on Art.
Hence a               in a letter to the editor (24 February).
         disclaimer  writings I have not anywhere expressed
"In my   published

1 Life of Professor Huxley, ii., 194.      -Autobiography, ii., 195.
1886-89] Factors of Organic Evolution  283

either the opinions ascribed to me or any other. Neces-
sarily, therefore, some utterances of mine, either to friends
or to an amanuensis, must have originated the statement.
In its general drift the statement is correct, but, as might
be expected, it is incorrect in detail." When it was pointed
out that the paragraph in question was reprinted from his
own essay on " Precedent in Architecture," published in
January, 1842, all he could say was : " I never dreamed
that the reference was to a letter nearly fifty years old."

     A proposal was made by Miss Beatrice Potter on behalf
of an American gentleman that he should sit to Millais for
his portrait. To this he at first consented, but next day
drew back.

                       To Miss BEATRICE POTTER.

                                                                           5 May, 1888.
    Yesterday I quite forgot myself, or rather forgot one of my
strong opinions, when I gave my consent to the project for
a portrait.
    The practice of getting up subscriptions for this and the
other purpose has grown into a grave social abuse, against
which I have of late years more and more protested. People
are blackmailed for all kinds of purposes. Among other, sub-
scriptions raised are those for testimonials and testimonial
portraits ; and against such subscriptions also I protest.
     On one occasion I voluntarily subscribed without being
asked, because I felt under a personal obligation (the case
of Sir Andrew Clark), but on sundry other occasions I have,
when asked to subscribe for the painting of portraits, felt that
I was under a kind of moral coercion, which I did not like.
Having been asked I felt obliged to subscribe because of the
feeling that would have arisen had I declined.
     Now as I dislike being myself put under coercion of this
kind, I dislike having other persons put under such coercion
in respect of myself. I dislike the thought that any one should
be asked to tax themselves with a view to raising a fund for
painting a portrait of me. I feel that some might give willingly,
but many reluctantly, and most would regard the thing as a
nuisance. I therefore must decline agreeing to the project
which you named to me.

     The prospect of improved health and working power
with which he had come to London at the end of January,
became clouded before many months. By midsummer

he had made up his mind that a radical change in his
284 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xix.

mode of life must be attempted. Hence an urgent request

that Mr. and Mrs. Grant Allen should take him as a boarder,

which, at considerable inconvenience to themselves, they

consented to do. The move jto Dorking took place in June.
But the bad weather, keeping him indoors, produced great

depression of spirits. He was, in fact, getting confirmed

in that state which became more and more pronounced

as year succeeded year a state of restless longing for

society when it was away from him, and shrinking from

it when it was within his reach.

His anti-aggression sentiments remained as pronounced

as ever, though he had been compelled to stand aside from

the public position  "heEchclaedsiaoscticcuapl iedInsintitu1t8i8o2n.s,"Siinncewhthicehn
he had published

the clergy are taken to task for their indifference to, or

support of, the aggressive policy of the nation.

                      TO THE HOX. AUBEROX HERBERT.

                                                      DORKIXG, 30 September, 1888.
     I wish you would instigate Mr. Bradlaugh (with whom
I see you have been expressing sympathy) to commence a
crusade against the abominable filibustering which is now
disgracing us. Since the annexation of Burma we have had
Zulu-land, New Guinea, North Borneo, East Africa, as well
as the now current and pending aggressions in Sikkim and

the Black Mountain, which doubtless will end by and by
in annexations there. Now there is a talk too of Bechuana-
land. To me the whole thing is atrocious and horrible, and
so far from being likely to stop, it goes on faster day by day,
resulting in a re-barbarization of the nation.

     Bradlaugh would, I think, be a good man to initiate an
agitation of a pronounced kind against the whole policy.
There are several strong positions capable of conclusive proof
and illustration which he might take up.

     First, that the whole policy ends in national loss, since the
alleged commercial advantages never compensate for the cost
of perpetual wars joined with the cost of official administration,
and that from this loss the working class, along with other
classes, eventually suffers.

     Second, that the whole process is utterly demoralizing,
as a continual fostering of those sentiments which, joined with
development of militant organization, end in destruction of free
institutions and despotism.

     Third, that it will inevitably result in an increased demand
for increased armaments to defend the greater number of
1886-89] Factors of Organic Evolution                                        285

dependencies and also to make England safe against those
dangers of war which increasing jealousy of the continental
nations will produce.

Fourth, that this increasing demand for armaments, per-
petually pushed as it will be by the governing classes, who
have an interest in military extension and the extension of
dependencies which give places for younger sons, will end
in established conscription, which the working classes will
above all others feel.

Fifth, that the organizations, established and dissenting,
for teaching Christianity absolutely fail in their duty in check-
ing these political burglaries everywhere going on, and that
to their disgrace the preaching of justice and mercy has to

be undertaken by rationalists.
    I begin to see                                   that American senator   who
spoke of England       the   m" deaenviinl-gfishof  among the nations," for  here
                       as a

she is spreading out her arms all over the world and fixing her
suckers perpetually in more and more places. There wants
some one who, with a voice of thunder, will denounce all these
abominations. And I wish you also would take part in such
a crusade. It seems to me now more important than any-
thing else. J

During the winter of 1888-9, when the Grant Aliens were

abroad, he remained at Dorking, trying now this remedy,

now that, to relieve the loneliness that weighed upon him.

The social intercourse he considered good for him was not

easy to get or to keep. Thus he wards off a visit the
Tyndalls proposed making : " My friends are my worst

enemies, and I have to be continually on my guard against

them, and especially friends in whom I am most interested,

and conversation with whom is most likely to become

animated. Humdrum people I am not much afraid of."
Nor was he afraid of children. For this unfailing source
                        he was again indebted to Mrs. W. H.
wofhoha"ppleinnet s"s  him two of her children for a fortnight.  Cripps,
                                                                   After

their return home he sent their mother a letter which reveals

his painstaking solicitude for what he considered the welfare

of those with whom he had anything to do.

    1 "The above was sent to Mr. Auberon Herbert unsigned along with
a letter suggesting that he should hand it on in that form. I did not

wish my name mentioned because it would give a handle against me

and impede my usefulness in other directions." [Note by Spencer.]
 286 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xix.

                           To MRS. W. H. CRIPPS.

                                                                                  17 December, 1888.

      I was glad to get your letter saying that the children had
 arrived safely. I am glad that you found them so much better.

       Do not put down the improvement to Dorking as a place.
 The hills around condense fog when it is fine elsewhere, and the
 climate is relaxing. . . .

      The difference in their state is almost exclusively due to
 difference of regimen. I stopped the tepid bath in the morning
 and gave them hot. Chilling the skin, with their state of lungs,
 is very detrimental. They were, as you have seen, more thickly
 clothed both indoors and out, and they ought to have flannel
 next the skin all over. The bare or ill-clothed legs which the
 present fashion of children's dresses involves is the cause of
 no end of illnesses, and undermines no end of constitutions.
 Further, their necks should be clothed. With their delicate
 mucous membranes and liability to colds, the skin around the
 throat should be protected.

     While with me they had animal food three times a day
substantial breakfast at half-past 8, including fish, egg or bacon,
along with their bread and milk, and this enabled them to go
on until dinner-time at 1, without anything between. At dinner
they had as much meat and other food as they liked. Then
there was a slight meal at half-past 4, and another substantial
animal food meal at 7. Moreover they were checked in drink-
ing so much water at meals. They had got into a morbid
craving for water which was detrimental. This was very easily
broken, and improved their digestions. I did not send them
to bed so early as they commonly go. Sending children to

bed before they are sleepy is a mistake, and too much bed
lowers the action of the heart.

     I found it undesirable that they should have all their morning
exercise at once their wralk after lessons was too long with
their present state. I sent them out when the weather per-
mitted for a quarter of an hour before they began their lessons,
and then for a short time after their lessons.

     Judy should not be allowed to read or tell stories in the
evening, but should be occupied by some mechanical game or
amusement. Her brain is excitable, and her occupations before
going to bed should be quiet ones.

     Pray do not regard my advice as that of a theorist. I think
you will see that the results of my regimen have proved to be
eminently practical.

                              To RICHARD POTTER.

                                                                            7 February, 1889.

     You speak of having been to Yew Tree. I well remember
my visit there in 1848 remember, too, my first meeting with
you there, and further remember that I thought you the most
1886-89] Factors of Organic Evolution                                        287

gentlemanly young fellow I had ever seen. I have heard you
speak disparagingly of yourself in early days, but your self-
depreciation is all nonsense.
...I should be very glad could I visit you at the Argoed in the
summer, but I see little chance of doing so.                                 However,

there is no knowing what may happen.

About the middle of March, 1889, he returned to

London.     "Save some additions to the     Autobiography,"
writes Mr.  Troughton, " the nine month's  stay at Dorking

were barren of achievement in the way of serious work."

Wishing to be near the Athenaeum, he stayed for a short

time at a private Hotel in St. James' Place. Early in April
he was back at Queen's Gardens worrying himself over a
statement of Rev. Dr. J. Wilson's in the Aberdeen Free Press
that in 1844, when on     the staff of   the Birmingham Pilot, he
wrote articles for that  paper on "     Sociology." The reading
of this gave him a "     disagreeable
                                         shock," as bearing on his

relation to Comte, and led to correspondence with Dr.

DWri.lsWonil,sown'hsichmelmefot ry"thbeeinmgat"tetrreainchearoums.u"ddleIn"   owing to
                                                                             this emer-

gency he turned for help to Mr. Frederic Harrison, who

was requested to be good enough to send some one to the

British Museum to examine the entire file of the short-lived

Pilot, and make a copy of the titles of all the leading

articles. Mr. Harrison thought such a search unnecessary.

"Your contention is so clearly right, and Mr. Wilson's

memory so obviously untrustworthy as against yours, that
I should think your denial in a brief letter to the Pall Mall

Gazette would be ample, and would satisfy every one."

Spencer, however, repeated his request to have the file

examined. On this being clone, a letter was sent to the
Pall Mall Gazette, showing how unfounded Dr. Wilson's

statements were.

     On his 69th birthday he penned what he probably
regarded at the time as the closing paragraphs of the

Autobiography (ii., 413). In May he wrote the preface to
Mr. Collins's Epitome, about which there had been corres-

pondence during the previous ten months correspondence

showing how anxious      he was to keep  clear of all implica-
tions of responsibility  for that work.     " You can adopt

what size, style, and type, &c., you please. In respect of
288 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP.

binding, however, I should wish the independence of the

volume manifest."
     There came a pressing invitation from Mr. Manton

Marble, that he would spend three months next winter with
him and his wife on their dahabeah on the Nile. " We can

offer you spacious, comfortable quarters (which implies
solitude as much as you like), an excellent table, absolute

freedom from cost or care, lazy days and quiet nights. . . .

If you have a favourite tipple or a special food we will
procure them ; if you have a favourite game we will learn
it ; when you would be let alone we will ignore your
existence ; when you would bestow your tediousness upon
us we will give it welcome. . . . Were you to become dis-
appointed in any way, or weary and prefer return, Cook
and Son's steamers would always afford ea^y escape."

Spencer could only regret that his health precluded accept-
ance of this generous offer. He was about this time re-
minded of the qualified answ rer given in February to an
invitation to come to the Argoed, in Monmouthshire.

                           To RICHARD POTTER.

                                                                                28 May, 1889.

    Would that it were possible for me to yield to your kind
pressure and visit the Argoed, but unhappily it is quite out

of the question. . . .

     How likely I should be to visit you, if I dared, you may
judge by the fact that I am at present advertizing for country
quarters during the summer months. . . . Even did I find some
place that met my requirements in other respects there would
still be lacking that which I above all things want the com-
panionship of those I care about. You may judge then how
gladly I would come to the Argoed if I could get there.

There was no lack of replies to his advertisement for

summer quarters, but his numerous and peculiar require-

ments were not easily met. Armed with a long list of

points to be considered, his secretary was sent hither and

thither, taking notes of the house and its inmates; the

proximity of poultry, dogs, church bells, railways ; the

salubrity of the air and the resources of the surrounding

country for  drives, &c. "Curiously enough,"       says   Mr.
Troughton,                                           the
             " after a series of disappointments,         last
1886-89] Factors of Organic Evolution                        289

reply to the advertisements brought the desired haven of

rest. At a place near Pevvsey, in Wiltshire, I found a

habitat which answered almost perfectly to what ' was

wanted." Meanwhile, tired of boarding house life, he

was on the look out for a permanent house of his own

in London. In due course he was introduced to the

Misses      , with whom an arrangement was come to

and a house in Avenue Road, Regent's Park, was chosen.

                    To JOHN TYNDALL.

                                             12 June, 1889.

     I have found a place in Wiltshire which promises to serve
...me pretty well for my summer months ; . . . They asked for
references and I ventured to name you as one.            I end with
a startling fact : I have taken a house in St. John's Wood,
and am going to have three maiden ladies to take care of me !
This is in pursuance of an idea I have contemplated for nearly

a year.

     While  he was   at     Pevvsey     there appeared    Tenniel's
cartoon in   Punch  of    17 August        " Out in the  Cold," in

which the First Lord of the Treasury, glancing over the
Pension List, says to Unfortunate Genius : " Let me see ;
Civil List Literature, Science, and Art ! H'm ! I'm afraid,

my poor friend, you're hardly eligible. You're not a

Foreign Prince, nor a titled Poet, nor the relative of an
Ambassador or Policeman ." To this Spencer attached

the following memorandum :

     I am rejoiced to see this cartoon. It ought to make
Tennyson wince. To my thinking he has been disgraced for
these many years past by continuing to receive a pension, when
he had no longer any need for it to receive
                                               too, out of
                                               it,
                                                                          it, a
small fund intended for necessitous men of letters and science,

and quite inadequate to meet the legitimate claims upon

(if  any such claims are, as matter of public policy, to be
            ;a
regarded as legitimate).    a
                                 a

                                     a
     The pension which Tennyson has continued to receive was
given to him when young man and before he met with much

public recognition, and at time when, as was told, loss
                                        I
                                                      if
of nearly all he possessed in an imprudent speculation put

him into difficulties so that, at that time, there was,   such

pensions are to be given at all, valid reason for giving him
one. He has continued to retain this pension up to his 80th
year, notwithstanding the fact that for these many years past

     19
290 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xix.

he has been a comparatively wealthy man so wealthy as to
be able to have two country houses. I believe his works bring
him in several thousands a year, which in fact, is implied by
the style of his living. So that he has continued to retain this
pension, when he was perfectly able to dispense with                                         it,  and

has, by doing so, withheld from some more or less meritorious
                              is
                                   it
person who was in real need.
   What contrast              afforded by the conduct of Harriet
             a

Martineau, who, although without other means than such as
she obtained by hard work with her pen, and enabled by that
hard work only to achieve small income, nevertheless when
                                     a        preferred rather to
a  pension was offered to her, refused a  it

continue her hard work, and moderate pittance, than receive
any public money probably disapproving of expenditure of
public money for such purposes.
   The antithesis             strange one between this nobility of the
                      is
                         a
                                 is
political economist, who supposed to be by nature hard and
prosaic, and the meanness of the poet supposed to be by nature

so noble in feeling.
   My admiration for Tennyson has been, for these many years
past, largely discounted by the consciousness of this conduct
of his.

                        To T. H. HUXLEY.

                                          28 September, 1889.

   And so you are building a house at Eastbourne, hear.
II
                             I

                                                        a

                                                             I
                                                                           I?

                                                                                 I
   thought that even taking house at my age was rather an
eccentric proceeding, after having all my life lived in lodgings
or in a boarding-house, but that you should be at your age

building one suffices to make me feel that am not so eccentric

after all. . . .                                                                             Though

     How are you after your sojourn in Switzerland
   heard of your call did not hear of your health.
                                                                                             hope you

profited as before, and that you have come back in good train-
ing for another bout of fisticuffs with the theologians.

   The progress of evolutionary ideas on the continent

during the years covered by this chapter was not striking.
To keep alive the interest in his philosophy, to say nothing

of increasing      new        works      from his pen were needed, but
                              of "     The Factors of Organic Evolu-
           a
                             it,

                                                                                          a
*stiionnce"  the publication  there had been nothing to arrest the
              early in 1886

attention of foreigners, and to remind them that he was

still living force. But in 1888 he was embarrassed on

hearing that, on the occasion of the eighth centenary of the

University of Bologna, he had been made Doctor of the
1886-89] Factors of Organic Evolution  291

Juridical Faculty. Replying to Signer Tullio Martello

he said he was glad to thus receive a clear verification

of the belief that his books had obtained considerable

acceptance in Italy. The election had, however, placed
him in an awkward position. Up to the present time he

had habitually declined all honorary degrees and academic

honours ; and from the position he had taken up it was
difficult to retreat. On the other hand, the flattering
manner in which the authorities of the University of
Bologna had conferred the degree made it difficult for
him to decline without appearing to slight this expression

of their appreciation. "Thus, you will see, that between
my feelings and convictions I am placed in a dilemma
from which there appears to be no escape."

     Early in the following year he found himself in a similar
predicament, on learning that the Royal Danish Academy
had elected him a member. With his letter to Professor

Hoffding declining the honour, he sent a copy of his letter

to the French Academy, which, he said, "will show the

Council of the Royal Danish Academy what my reasons
are, and that it is not from undervaluing the honour they

have conferred that I take the course I do." 1

* Supra, chap, xvii., p. 233.
                      292

               CHAPTER XX.

IN DEFENCE OF FREEDOM AND JUSTICE.

                 (September, 1889 December, 1891.)

HE had looked forward to uninterrupted progress with

the Ethics, and was disappointed to find how much of his

time was used up by matters which did not advance his

undertaking. Delay in getting the lease of his house drawn
up and signed led him to write to the owner : " It seems

to me that a lawyer who does business in this style ought

to lose his clients." The turn of landlords for reproof

came in a letter to his solicitor on observing that a clause

restricting his liabilities for repairs had not been inserted.

"The fact that there was not any such clause and I

suppose there is habitually no such clause shows how

abominably the interests of the landlord alone are con-

sidered, and those of the tenant ignored." He began to

accept invitations to evening parties a thing he had not
done for several years. His old interest in the affairs of

the Athenaeum revived. Wishing habitual diners to be

...representedon the  uCpo. mm" it1tedeo,n'thelikuergetod   a fellow  member
              matter                                                  question
to take the                                                raise the

myself.         I am well known to the manager as a very

candid critic, who is continually asking for his attendance

to receive complaints, and I do not want to become more

objectionable than I am." He was instrumental in getting

Mr. (now Baron) Kentaro Kaneko, the Japanese statesman,
made an honorary member of the Club in the spring of

1890. This was the beginning of their personal acquain-
tance. Familiarity with Spencer's writings dated back some

years, Count Ito and Mr. Kaneko having made a careful

study of his books during the five years they were engaged

in revising the Japanese Constitution. In the following

year, after returning to Japan, Mr. Kaneko solicited
1 889-9 l ]  Freedom and Justice                                                  293

Spencer's advice on the problem his country was trying
to solve: "Whether Asiatic nations can come into the
circle of European Constitutional States."

     When account is taken of the fever of excitement that
overtook him at the end of iSSg, 1 one can read between
the lines of the following New Year's greeting and realize
that it was not a mere form of words when he said that

he envied the equanimity and cheerfulness of his friend.

                            To RICHARD POTTER.

                                                                                29 December, 1889.

     MY DEAR OLD FRIEXD, I send you a New Year's greeting
along with my best wishes for your recovery from the serious
relapse you have been suffering under.

     Letters from one or other of the family have from time to
time given me news of you which, unsatisfactory in so far as
the continuance of your feeble state is concerned, have yet been
satisfactory in telling of your continued cheerfulness. It is an
immense thing to have so happy a nature. To have so long
preserved not only a state of equanimity and content, but to
have found more pleasure during invalid life than most persons
find during health, is an achievement not reached by one in a
hundred or perhaps one in a thousand. In this respect I envy
you your nature as well as your family surroundings.

                                FROM Miss YOUMAXS.
                                                                      30 March, 1890.

     Last Sunday [23 March] the New York Times published
something like an attack upon you, and called attention
editorially to the article. To-day your defenders have their
say ; and I send you both series of articles. . . . There are
various conjectures as to the reason of this start of the New
York Times. Jay [her brother] thinks it is only a newspaper
dodge to attract attention. Others imagine that there is a

concerted movement to crush you over again. If this is the

idea, it certainly looks discouraging for the attacking party.

    Whether this was "a newspaper dodge" or a deliberate

attack, Spencer thought it expedient to take notice of and
wrote to Mr. Skilton, Secretary of the Brooklyn Ethical
Association.
             1

                                                                             it,
             In/ra, chap, xxii., p. 329.
294           Life of Herbert Spencer                      [CHAP. xx.

                   To JAMES A. SKILTON.

                                                                           8 April, 1890.
        It think, needful that the letter of " Outsider " and
I

        is,

         I
              J.
                   if

                                        a it

                                     I
                                            I

                                                           it

                                                       I
                                                                                                                           .
                                                                                                                                     .

                                                                                  it
the editorial article upon   should be met. .

        ...enclose the draft of letter which think might fitly be
sent to the New York Times.                presume you are acquainted
...with Dr. W. Youmans, and think would be well to consult
him. Probably he were to undertake the reply                                                                                            would

be the best. Standing as he does in closer relations to my
affairs in the United States, through his intimate knowledge
of all his brother has done, and being, therefore, publicly

understood to be more fully in possession of the facts than
any one else, the letter might with advantage issue from him,

he consents.
if
       I" Outsider's " letter was revival of the question raised
              1
                    :

                                  a

                                                        :

                                                   it
in the Nation twenty years before as to Spencer's reputation
among specialists. Of the letters published up to 6th April,

only one could be considered adverse. The editor felt
constrained to ask " Where are the foes of Spencer "
..." Outsider " intervened to say " Let                    I

that am attacking Spencerianism.                                    ?
                                                           not be supposed
                                                           At present am

only seeking light." Following upon other letters, mostly

favourable, the issue of 2yth April Spencer's birthday
w"cuaOsssuitossniigdnetarhlie"zedethdeitboyrligrohentmeahrfekroesmdougD"hrtW.. hWiSle.umMmrY.inoguSmpeuanpncse,rth'segiSvdyininsg--
                   is
thetic Philosophy                              :
                                            J.
                   still an ardent controversy,                                                                                         may
                                                           it
fairly be claimed by his adherents that his assailants have        J.

suffered more damage than he or his system in the contest

tYIhnoautthmehaainssssu'sreagloeefttde4rt,haro"Muwanydit,h"ohuiOmtutosdfiduecrrionug"rsaetdhmesiuttlfaefisdctintgthhaitrttoyDrp.yueWtar.sh.i"s

[Spencer's] philosophy beyond doubt, does satisfactorily
answer the question to which gave special prominence."
                   1
With the discussion which thus closed on his seventieth
                                        I
birthday Spencer had no reason to be dissatisfied.         A                                                                            reso-

lution passed by the Brooklyn Ethical Association also

afforded him much gratification.

                   Supra, chap, xii., p. 150.
1 889-9 ! ]  Freedom and Justice               "295

                             To JAMES A. SKILTON.

                                                                                 10 May, 1890. .

     Those who in the past have devoted their lives to the
diffusion of ideas have usually had much to suffer and have
met with little appreciation during their lives. Remembering
the fates of such, I may regard myself as extremely fortunate.
If, during the first half of my literary career, the losses were
great and the encouragements small, yet the latter half has
made amends ; and I may well be more than satisfied alike
with the material results and the effects produced, as well
as with the marks of appreciation which have been coming
to me more and more frequently.

     Of all his undertakings the most disappointing had been
the Descriptive Sociology. But even that cloud was not
without a bit of silver lining. From time to time he
received from Mr. E. T. C. Werner, of H.B.M. Consular

Service in China, encouraging reports of the progress of

the Descriptive Sociology of the Chinese, which Mr. Werner

had voluntarily undertaken to prepare, without cost to
Spencer, as far as compilation was concerned. In carrying
on this work1 Mr.. Werner had much to contend against:

heavy and often vexatious official duties, an exhausting
climate, ill-health, &c. hindrances which would have led

one less enthusiastic to have given up the self-imposed task
as impracticable. Of Mr. Werner's unselfish devotion to
the work Spencer often spoke with much appreciation. It
was another of the things which he said cheered him at a

time of life when cheering things were not very common.
     During the spring he completed for Mind an article on

" Space Consciousness," which had been lying over since
1883. In view of a final edition of the Essays, he also wrote
a postscript to "The Origin and Function of Music," which
appeared in Mind for October.

     The receipt of a copy of the late Miss Constance Naden's
Induction and Deduction afforded him an opportunity of
reiterating his long-formed convictions regarding the intel-
lectual powers of women.

             1 Now (1908) nearing completion.
296  Life of Herbert Spencer         [CHAP. xx.

                            To ROBERT LEWINS.

                                                         PEWSEY, 10 June, 1890.

     Very generally receptivity and originality are not associated,
but in her they appear to have been equally great. I can tell
you of no woman save George Eliot in whom there has been
this union of high philosophical capacity with extensive acquisi-
tion. . . . While I say this, however, I cannot let pass the
occasion for remarking that, in her case as in other cases,
mental powers so highly developed in women are in some
measure abnormal and involve a physiological cost which the
feminine organization will not bear without injury more or less
profound.

     He was on what he thought more  uncertain  ground
when consulted by Mr. Malabari, of   Bombay,    on the
subject of early marriage in India.

     To BEHRAMJI M. MALABARI.

                                     20 July, 1890.

Although I have not studied Indian affairs to any extent,
I can understand the difficulty felt by Anglo-Indian authorities
in dealing with questions like that which you raise. Doubtless

they are impressed, and in a large measure rightly impressed,
with the belief that it is impolitic for one race to interfere with

the customs of another race, the character and feelings of

which are in a considerable degree incomprehensible to it.

Certainly it is a mistake to assume, as many do, that the
institutions found good for one people will be good for another,
and it is the perception of this mistake that causes the inaction
of the Indian Government. . . .
I incline to agree with you, however, that the passivity of
the Government in relation to native usages may be carried too

far. Marriage is rightly to be regarded as a contract. A con-

tract implies unconstrained assent of the contracting parties,
and it implies also that they shall be of such age as to be
...capable of understanding the responsibilities to which the con-
tract commits them.  In neither of these respects does the

Indian usage fulfil the requirements. The union is not the
result of a voluntary contract, and those who enter into it are

not of fit age to make it even though voluntary.

     It may be a question whether under such circumstances

the State may not go to the extent of ignoring the contract,

...and declining to administer in all matters concerning it or

growing out of it.
Whether this would or xvould not be too strong a measure
can be decided only by those who know more of the conditions
of things in India than I do.
1 889-9 l ~\           Freedom and Justice                                    297

                       To PROFESSOR TYNDALL.

                                              22 August, 1890.

   Unless the Alps have been in an island of good weather
amidst the ocean of bad weather which seems to have pervaded
pretty nearly the whole of the northern hemisphere, or at any
rate the eastern half of             fear you have had great deal of
monotonous indoor life in your Alpine chalet. . . . You haveI is IIa
not, fancy, that faculty for idleness which have, and,iIt,
   II                                                                         if

prevented from going out, are obliged to busy yourself about

something, instead of lounging about and letting your nervous
system lie fallow as do. . . .
      recently had with me again for three weeks my little
friends, the children of Mrs. [W. H.] Cripps. . . . One of them,
   little girl of 10, organically good, and like another of thea

same sex of whom have heard, gives one hopes of the pos-
sibilities of human nature.

        small society at Oxford being about to discuss whatA
Dr. Arnold called " the best authenticated fact in history,"
the Resurrection and recognizing that their " Theological

Bias" led them to underestimate the difficulties in the way

of accepting      it,  they requested Spencer to put down the

main reasons for honestly doubting the fact.

                  To W. A. H. C. FREEMAXTLE.

                                              29 October, 1890.

   Naturally am interested in your letter telling me of the
   it                                         Sociology by your friend
                I

                     it
                            a is
effects made by reading the Study    it
                                          of
and yourself. Its aims were altogether social and political,
and never occured to me that might have any theological

influence. . . .

   But though                     out of the question for me to furnish you
with direct reasons for doubt, can furnish you with some
                                     I

indirect reasons of sufficiently weighty kind.  I   can give you

from my own experience four instances which have occurred

during the last twenty years, showing the extreme untrust-
worthiness of human testimony. [The four unfounded state-
ments were that he was present at the funeral of Mr. Odger,
at the unveiling of the memorial statue to Mr. Fawcett, at the
funeral of Lord and Lady Dalhousie, and that he had written
articles on Sociology for the Birmingham Pilot.'] Here then
are the testimonies of eye-witnesses, ordinarily to be regarded
as conclusive evidence. And all this occurred within period
                                        is
                                                                           a
covering but a fourth part of my life, and in an age of the world
when men are more critical and less credulous than they were
two thousand years ago. As there              no reason for supposing
that my experiences of the invalidity of testimony are peculiar,
298            Life of Herbert Spencer                     [CHAP. xx.

it is manifest that there must be multitudinous "cases daily
occurring of apparent clear proofs which are not proofs. 1

If so, what are the probabilities respecting the testimony on

which you rely for believing in these alleged breaches of the
order of nature ?

The credibility of testimony was again touched upon the

tmheon"thbilfloiallrodwsintogr,y  on one of the numerous   occasions when
                                  " was going the rounds.

                         To Miss BEATRICE POTTER.

                                                                       20 November, 1890.
     When you meet with a newspaper statement about me

extract the square root and that will give you about the ratio
of the fact to the fiction in it. I have not been in the Senior
United Service Club for five years, and I never played any such
game as that described, nor ever made any such remark a propos
of one. The sole basis of truth in it is that I have occasionally
repeated as the saying of a friend of mine, that to play billiards
well is a sign of an ill-spent youth. All the rest is dressing.

     The billiard story which year after year went the round
of the press, with slight variations to suit the tastes of
different classes of readers, is a striking example of the
wonderful perversions these gossiping stories undergo.
Some six or seven months before Spencer's death it ap-
peared in T. P.'s Weekly (13 May, 1903), the scene being
laid this time not in the United Service Club, but in the
Athenaeum. At the request of the present writer Spencer
dictated to his secretary the following :

     One afternoon some ten years ago, when seated in the
billiard room of the Athenaeum Club, it was remarked to me
by the late Mr. Charles Roupell (an Official Referee of the
High Court of Justice) that to play billiards well was a sign
of an ill-spent youth. Whether there was or was not any game
going on at the time I cannot remember, but I am sure he
would not have a made a remark in any way offensive to any
one in the room.

     In the course of that autumn or a subsequent autumn, when
we had our interchange of visits with the United Service Club

1 Such as the statement made to the present writer in 1898 by a
Jesuit father  who had            been   informed by a  Je"suthitatprHieesrtbwerhto  had recently
been at St.    Leonards             and   knew Spencer                               Spencer had

become a strict ritualist."
1 889-9 T ]                        Freedom and Justice                                             299

opposite, I repeated this saying of Roupell's repealed^ I say,
not giving any implication that it was an idea of my own, and
most positively not making it in reference either to any game
I was playing or had played, or in reference to games played
by any one else : it was absolutely dissociated from anybody,
and was simply uttered by me as an abstract proposition.
This abstract proposition presently made its appearance in,
I presume, one or other evening paper. In the first version,
I think a young Major was the other party to the story. Then
from time to time it went the round of the papers, and having
dropped for a while, re-appeared in other papers (provincial
included), always with variations and additions : the result
being a cock-and-bull story, having no basis whatever further
than the fact that I once repeated this saying of Roupell's
apropos of nobody. l

The Liberty and Property Defence League claimed "his

sympathy in virtue of the resistance it made to socialistic

legislation. But, he informed the secretary in February,

1890 : "Though I am quite willing to aid pecuniarily, I am

desirous that my aid should not be publicly interpreted

into membership of the League." In succeeding years his

faith in it was shaken, owing to its having become, as he

thought, an organization for upholding property rather than

liberty. In 1890, however, he still had faith in                                                   and
I
                       it

                                                                                              it,
sought to turn                     to account in resistance to the growing

burdens and encroachments of municipal bodies.

                       To THE EARL OF WEMYSS.

                                                          PEWSEY, 10 June, 1890.
        have for some time past been looking for signs of re-
sistance to be presently made by the over-taxed citizens of
London. . . . Both on the part of the School Board and the
County Council the movements are going in the direction which
Mr. Henry George indicates as the right one not to turn out
the landlords, but to tax them out. Let but the- existing

1  One of the most absurd editions of the story appeared in The

"GoMldre. nSpPeenncnery's  of 29   April, 1899.                   The game had      gone against him.
                             brow    clouded.                    Sir,' he said, as  the marker hastily
                                   a

                                                              '
scrambled under the table to allow uninterrupted discussion, 'moderate
                           sign of good education of the eye, the nerve, the hand
proficiency  ; is                                                it
                a                                                             it

                                                                                                                         :
but your mastership of the game could have been acquired only by an
ill-spent youth.' The philosopher was quite calm and collected, and not
at all angry he merely broke his cue to see whether was made of
elm or oak, and found, as he had expected, that was neither." Truly,
a wonderful growth of a myth
                                   !
300  Life of Herbert Spencer  [CHAP. xx.

socialistic policy be carried further and further, as it seems
likely to be, and the revenues from property will be gradually
swallowed up by public demands.

     I write to you, thinking that the Liberty and Property
Defence]|League might very properly initiate a resistance to
the extravagant measures daily taken by these local governing

bodies.

    A month or two later his help was sought for a pro-
jected volume of anti-socialist essays. On the ground that

the book was an attempt to apply his own principles, he
was appealed to, through Lord Wemyss, to do " what would
be the making of this volume." Yielding to the pressure
put upon him, he promised to write an Introduction, but

he in his turn was not so successful in getting Lord Wemyss

to contribute.

                          To THE EARL OF WEMYSS.

                                                                        14 November, 1890.

     As you pressed me into the ranks of the anti-socialist
demonstration and I have yielded to your pressure, I have
a certain claim to similarly press you.

     I should be very glad if you would wind up the discussion
by a brief paper, . . . emphasizing the truth which people
so persistently ignore, that every step away from individualism
is a step towards socialism, and that by repetition of such steps,
socialism must inevitably be reached. Habitually the supporters
of each muddling measure, . . . persist in thinking only of that
particular measure, . . . and shut their eyes to the fact that
multiplication of such measures year after year brings us nearer
and nearer to that result which they, in common with others,
profess to look upon with dread.

    While sympathizing with the Hon. Auberon Herbert's pro-
ject for a newspaper Free Life to advocate individualism,
he expressed the fear that it would "entail considerable loss,
and abandonment after a very short life."

                   To THE HON. AUBERON HERBERT.

                                                                     1 January, 1890.
     Of course you will put down my name as a subscriber.
     I say this without committing myself to agreement in
respect of all points in your programme. From Home Rule,
for example, I utterly dissent. All nations have been welded
together not by peaceful and equitable means, but by violent
and inequitable means, and I do not believe that nations could
1889-9!]  Freedom and Justice  301

ever have been formed in any other way. To dissolve unions
because they were inequitably formed I hold, now that they
have been formed, to be a mistake a retrograde step. Were
it possible to go back upon the past and undo all the bad
things that have been done, society would forthwith dissolve.

     16 June. I am myself almost hopeless of any good to be
done [towards promoting individualism]. The drift of things is
so overwhelming in the other direction, and the stream will,
I believe, continue to increase in volume and velocity, simply
because political power is now in the hands of those whose
apparent interest is to get as much as possible done by public
agency, and whose desires will be inevitably pandered to by
all who seek public functions.

     5 October. I regret to see that Free Life is assuming what
seems to me an unattractive aspect. When you initiated your
scheme and made a commencement I did not expect much
result, though, of course, I sympathized in every effort in the
direction of individualism. I feared, too, that your doctrine
of voluntary taxation would go very much against success, and,
indeed, prejudice the individualist doctrine in general. . . .

     Still as you continue your efforts in your original form,
it seems to me best that they shall be made as effective as
possible, and I am prompted to write expressing my regret
that your form of presentation is less attractive than it was.
The last number of Free Life is comparatively uninteresting in
appearance lacking sub-divisions and proper headings. In
fact, while our press generally has been Americanizing the mode
of editing in, as I think, an improper manner, you seem to be
going in the other direction and discarding all elements of
attraction.

     22 October. I think you are writing, or probably have
written, an essay on the Ethics of Liberty, to be included in
this volume of anti-socialist essays. Remembering what you
said in a recent letter concerning your views on voluntary
taxation that you should presently furnish me with your
defence it occurs to me that this defence will possibly be
contained in this essay. I hope this is not the case. If your

essay contains these special views of yours they are sure to be

commented upon as impracticable, and will be used as a handle

against the doctrines contained in the volume as a whole. . . .

     Will you forgive me if I say that you do not sufficiently bear

in mind the organic badness of existing human nature and the
resulting organic badness of any society organized out of exist-
ing human nature. As I have elsewhere said, you cannot get
golden conduct out of leaden instincts ; and men's instincts
are at present in large measure leaden. Year by year and
day by day [events] convince me more and more that there
302                Life of Herbert Spencer   [CHAP. xx.

is only a certain amount of liberty of which men having a
given nature are capable, and if a larger amount of liberty is
given to them they will quickly lose it by organizing for them-
selves some other form of tyranny. This is what is now going
on. They have got by sundry electoral reforms more liberty
than they are capable of using, and the result is that they are
organizing for themselves the tyrannies of trade-unionism, and
socialism, and socialistic legislation, which will [end by] putting
them as much in bondage as before, if not more than before.
Such being their natures, it is to me clear that they are far from
being good enough for any such regime as that which you
advocate.

     When men are good enough for a system of voluntary
taxation they will be good enough to do without any govern-

ment at all.

"From Freedom to Bondage" was the heading chosen

for his Introduction to A Plea for Liberty, under which title
the volume of anti-socialist essays appeared at the beginning

of 1891.    As  I  to portions of the Introduction, wrote Mr.
Gladstone,   "      ask to make reserves, and of one passage,

which will be easily guessed, I am unable even to perceive

the relevancy. But speaking generally, I have read this

masterly argument with warm admiration and with the

earnest hope that it may attract all the attention which

it so well deserves." The passage alluded to was that in

which reference was made to "the behaviour of the so-called
Liberal party." Spencer thought it " not unnatural that
Mr. Gladstone should disapprove of the passage to which

he refers, but it is curious that he should fail to see its

relevancy." Spencer's share of the profits of the volume

was returned to Mr. Murray to be spent in distributing

copies to Free Libraries and Reading Rooms.

He had for some time been urging the formation of an

association for the defence of the interests of ratepayers.
To secure a really effective protest he urged the merging

of existing local ratepayers' leagues in the larger and more

powerful one he wished to see formed, the policy of which

should be directed more especially to the choice of members

of the County Council and the School Board. His efforts
were at length crowned with success, " The London Rate-

payers' Defence League" being formed in August, 1891. 1

                   1 Standard, August 20.
1889-9!]  Freedom and Justice                      303

     Interferences with individual liberty, either by the State

or by local authorities or associations, were detected in the
most innocent-looking proposals, as when he was solicited
by the Hon. Auberon Herbert to co-operate in a movement
for ensuring better ventilation in dwelling-houses.

                  To THE HON. AUBERON HERBERT.

                                                                                 14 May, 1891.
     My belief is that far more mischief in the shape of cold
or rheumatism results from draughts than from the breathing
of air that is not quite pure, and that these evils would be
greatly increased by further use of any of the ordinary measures
for ventilation measures which are habitually used in such
ways as to entail serious danger. . . . But whatever may be
the truth of the matter, one thing is quite clear that your

movement will inevitably be used in furtherance of State
meddling notwithstanding the protest you make. I regret
that I cannot in this matter co-operate with you.

Scientific scepticism, as in the above instance, often

came to the aid of political disapproval. Declining to sign

a memorial regarding  "  rabies in    the  spring  of 1890, he
expressed himself as     sceptical         regard  both to the
                                    with

present scare about rabies and the alleged specific for it."

So it was with regard to vaccination. "Compulsory vac-

cination I detest, and voluntary vaccination I disapprove."

     That one so fond of children should be made to appear

as an opponent of measures for preventing cruelty towards
them seems anomalous but only so long as his thorough-

going individualism is overlooked. A few remarks made
by him at a drawing-room meeting at the house of the
Dowager Lady Stanley of Alderley, in connexion with the
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, were, to
his great surprise, published in the Pall Mall Gazette. Had

he anticipated that his unpremeditated remarks were to be

made public he would, he wrote, have taken care to
emphasize more strongly the dangers which are likely to
arise illegitimate interference with parents, and a very
objectionable system of intrusion into the domestic circle. 1

     The questions involved (he wrote again) are far-reaching
touching, indeed, some ultimate problems of social life. . . .

          1 Pall Mall Gazette, 16 May, 1891.
304  Life of Herbert Spencer             [CHAP. xx.

More and more the tendency is to absolve parents from their
responsibilities, and to saddle these responsibilities on the com-
munity. . . .

     It is surprising with what light hearts people are led to
abrogate the order of Nature and to substitute an order of
their own devising. . . . And now it has come to be thought
that these strong parental feelings . . . may with advantage
be replaced by public sentiment working through State-

machinery ! . . .
      Respecting the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to

Children, the question is Will it work towards the enforcing

of parental responsibilities or towards the undermining of
them ? To bring punishment on brutal and negligent parents
seems, on the whole, a beneficial function. . . . Unfortunately,
very innocent looking germs are apt to develop into structures
which are anything but innocent. 1

                   To THE Hox. GEORGE C. BRODRICK.

                                                                                10 May, 1891.

      I am much obliged to you for the copy of your Collected
Essays and Speeches. . . . They contain a great mass of inform-
ation and much sound reasoning, and already they have sug-
gested to me a useful thought.

     I am giving some illustrations of the numerous unexpected
effects which a social cause eventually produces, and one of
your essays reminds me of an instance, namely the effect that
has been produced by the endeavour of landlords to control
the votes of their tenants. This, I conceive, was the cause of

short leases, and short leases have disastrously affected the
investment of capital in land, and by so doing diminished its
productiveness ; and now it appears that this cause, joined with
others, is initiating, through the farmers of land, the disastrous

interferences with contract, which will itself bring on multi-

tudinous evils. . . .
     There is a kindred instance of the vitiating of social arrange-

ments by illegitimate efforts to obtain political power in the
effects of the rating clauses as they affect small tenements, the
rates of which are paid by the landlords. The dissociation of
political power from the conscious bearing of political burdens
is working out most disastrous, and, indeed, revolutionary
effects.

     These were some of the chief lessons of the newly-
published volume on "Justice."

     In June he was the recipient of an unexpected gift.

     1 Pall Mall Gazette, 28 May, 1891.
1889-91]  Freedom and Justice                                                                       305

                            To ANDREW CARNEGIE.

                                                                       20 June, 1891.

     I was alike astonished and perplexed on entering my room
yesterday evening to see placed against the wall a magnificent
grand piano, which was not there when I left home. For
some time I was too much possessed by the surprising fact

to have any coherent thoughts about its possible source. . . .

    Well, I cannot do more than thank you heartily for so
splendid a gift, which, daily before my eyes, cannot fail to
bring you often to my thoughts. I have all along sympathized
in your view respecting the uses of wealth, but it never occur-
red to me that I should benefit by the carrying of your view
into practice. Leaving out all other considerations, what an
immensity of satisfaction of a high kind is obtained by its
distribution during life, as compared with the pleasure obtained
by one who heaps up and bequeaths. You are much to be
envied for having the opportunity of so often and so largely
experiencing this pleasure.

     I hear that there is presently coming a selection of classical
music, for which also thanks.

     The correspondence with Professor Tyndall during 1891
was very voluminous. The first of the extracts now to be
given relates to a visit to Hind Head House, Haslemere,
the residence of Professor and Mrs. Tyndall, which fell
through ; and the concluding one to a visit which did take
place, and was memorable also as being the occasion on
which the two friends met for the last time.

                             To JOHN TYNDALL.

                                                                       24 February, 1891.

    Yesterday I wrote to the Station-master at Haslemere, ask-
ing him to order a cab to meet the 1 o'clock train and carry
me up to Hind Head House. But as I lay awake last night,
contemplating the four carriage drives and two railway jour-
neys, I became impressed with the probability that a serious
relapse would result from the expedition if I undertook and
so, this morning telegraphed countermand.

        have been shocked to hear from Hirst of your having again
to take to your bed in consequence of second illness. . . .
Let me urge you not to confine yourself to mutton and chicken.
It getting rather late for game, but partridges and pheasants
are still to be had, and then in default of these, there are
prairie hens from America, and ptarmigan from Norway. Wild
ducks, too, find digestible and then there are pigeons and
quails. Not only variety in kinds of food desirable, but also
in cooking.

        20
is I
            I

                   I

                              is

                                                                            ;

                                                     a
                                                                           a

                                                                                               it,
306              Life of Herbert Spencer                    [CHAP. xx.

             *

     1 April. There is a wide difference between physical
precipices and physiological precipices, and a head that may be
fully trusted among the first may not be quite so trustworthy

among the last.

2 April. Yesterday afternoon Hirst gave me your postcard
to read, and we exchanged expressions of pleasure at the im-
proved prospects : thinking that the change for the better was
so marked that rapid recovery might be expected. Shortly
afterwards I took a postcard and wrote upon                 half in jest,
                                                         it,
half in earnest, the warning. have been several days thinking         1I
4

            I

                                  it

                                     I
of doing this, because seemed to me that you were running

risks that should be avoided.

     April.      have all along been fearful that your habit, so
long cultivated, of successful daring, would tend to make you

do things that are not prudent.

         renewed intention  odfefevaisteitdingbyHi"nadn  Head just before
going to Wiltshire was                                   accumulation of
A

                      a

                      I
excitements which put me quite wrong." The chief cause
of this was that " had foolishly let myself be entangled by

an American interviewer, and on Friday afternoon                                                       had

an hour and half's sharp work in revising his report."

                         To JOHN TYNDALL.

                                        PEWSEY, July, 1891.
                            a
                                                               4

                                                              I
1I   hope you have progressed sufficiently to be out of doors,
and that you are enjoying the summer's day as am doing
now, with larks singing overhead an umbrella to keep off

the excess of sun and          young lady playing the part of

amanuensis.

     September. On the llth instant leave this and, instead
                            If,
                                 II                         have promised

                                                  .

                                             I
                                                      I

                                                         I
of going straight back to town, make a detour.
to spend week at Mottisfont Abbey, the country place of my
friends the Meinertzhagens. . . Whena
                                                         leave Mottisfont,
           if
somewhere about the 18th,               propose to try and see you

wherever you may be.           as suggested, you have gone to
the Isle of Wight, or shall have gone there before the 18th,
then can, from Southampton, easily pass over to see you
     ;I
there but you continue at Hind Head, can, by somewhat
                         a

                                                I

                                                                                   a
                                                                                                   5,
1      This refers probably to report of an interview with Spencer, which

was published in the New York Mail and Express of October 1891.
1 889-9 1]  Freedom and Justice              307

round-about journey get to you there, and, if it is convenient,
spend a night at your house.

    The promised visit was paid at Hind Head. The letters,
from which the above extracts have been taken, throw

light upon certain traits of Spencer's character, showing
how erroneous was the impression that his solicitude about
his own health had its root in selfishness. True it is that

his own ailments are diagnosed, their causes investigated,
and the action of remedies traced with a tedious minuteness
and frequency. But it is precisely the same with regard

to the illnesses of his friends. His concern about himself,
when placed side by side with his concern for others, is

seen to have its source in an intellectual dissatisfaction
which gave him no rest until he had probed every question
to the bottom, and a sympathetic impulse which compelled
him whenever he saw anything wrong to try to put it right.

            To ROBERT BUCHANAN.

...Only yesterday did I finish The Outcast.7 October, 1891.

                                                 I read through
very few books, so you may infer that I derived much pleasure.
There are many passages of great beauty and many others of
great vigour, and speaking at large, I admire greatly your
fertile and varied expression. One thing in it which I like
much is the way in which the story is presented in varied forms
as well as under various aspects.
One thing I wish you had done, which I have often con-
tended should be done, namely, make the mode of expression
vary with the subject matter and feeling, rising from rhythmical
prose up to the most concentrated lyric. Long poems to me
almost always seem monotonous, and the monotony is in large
measure due to the uniformity in the style and versification.
In style you have in this poem been varied enough, but I should
have liked to see greater variety of versification. As a matter
of art, too, if you will allow me to make such a suggestion,
I should say that there is a tendency to redundancy, especially
in descriptive passages. Your fertile imagination I think needs
controlling by a tighter rein. . . .
I wish you would presently undertake a satire on the times.
There is an immensity of matter calling for strong denunciation
and display of white-hot anger, arid I think you are well
capable of dealing with the signs of our times. More
especially I want some one, who has the ability to do it with
sufficient intensity of feeling, *o denounce the miserable
hypocrisy of our religious world with its pretended obser-
308      Life of Herbert Spencer           [CHAP. xx.

vance of Christian principles side by side with the abomina-
tions which it continually commits and countenances abroad.

It might very well be symbolized as "The Impenitent Thief,"
and I should like you to nail it to the cross.

     In our political life, too, there are multitudinous things
which invite severest castigation the morals of party strife
and the way in which men are, with utter insincerity, sacrificing
their convictions for the sake of political and social position,
careless of the mischief which they are doing. I wish you
would think this over.

     Some weeks before this on reading Mr. Buchanan's
notice of " Justice," he had written to the same effect.

     I am glad you have taken occasion to denounce the
hypocrisy of the Christian world ; ceaseless in its professions
of obedience to the principles of its creed, and daily trampling
upon them in all parts of the World. I wish you would seize
every occasion which occurs (and there are plenty of them)
for holding up a mirror, and showing to those who call them-
selves Christians that they are morally pagans.

When towards the end of 1889 the Hon. Auberon
Herbert                                    Social Statics,
pointed  suggested  "  a new     issue of  be a revised       Spencer
         out that      Justice"   would                     and fully

matured exposition of the systematic part of that book.

As for the rest of the book, he proposed to select such

portions of it as seemed worth preserving, and to publish

this abridgement and The Man versus The State as one
volume. In this revision of his first book two main

considerations guided him the omission or modification

of passages that no longer expressed his matured con-

victions, and the omission of parts treated more systemati-

cally in the Principles of Ethics. Pari passn, therefore, with
the writing of "Justice" had proceeded these alterations
in Social Statics; and as soon as "Justice" was published,
he took steps to bring out this composite volume.

At the beginning of the year, when Mrs. Craig-Sellar

had recalled to his memory the old times at Ardtornish,
he had said : " I am glad to think that among those who

peopled past scenes I figure as one not unpleasantly re-

collected. As the steamer brought me away for the last

time in August, 1883, I remember looking with melancholy

eyes on the Ardtornish cliffs and thinking that I should

never again see them a presentiment which has proved
lo

8
1889-9!]  Freedom and Justice  309

true." Those delightful bygone days were again brought
to his remembrance towards the close of the year.

                           To Miss FLORA SMITH.

                                                                        22 November, 1891.

     You could scarcely have found a present giving me greater
pleasure than did the four framed photographs you sent me
yesterday : partly because of their intrinsic interest and partly
because they came from you.

     I have got admirable places for them. The portraits, fixed
on each side of the mirror in my bedroom, will remind me
of my highly valued friends every morning when I wake ; and
the two landscapes, displacing two chromo-lithographs in my
study, will face me daily as I work so recalling the scenes
in which my happiest days have been passed.

                        To W. VALENTINE SMITH.

                                                                                 18 December, 1891.

     About three weeks ago I was pleased to have the company
of your sisters here : Mrs. Sellar and children came to luncheon
and Miss Smith shortly afterwards. She came prepared to fulfil
a promise which she had made some time since to sing to me
once again Tennyson's u Farewell," 1 which I so well remember as
having heard on the occasion of my first visit to Achranich.

     His aunt Anna was now the only link connecting him
with his boyhood and youth. Writing to her in August
he mentions the state of extreme prostration to which Mr.
Richard Potter had been reduced by his long illness, and
looks forward with deep sorrow to the approaching ter-
mination of a friendship that had remained without a jar
for about half a century, and that was interwoven with
most of the leading events of his life. It carried his
thoughts back to 1842, when he first became acquainted
with Mrs. Potter's father Mr. Lawrence Heyworth whose
great-grandchildren were now contributing to his happi-
ness. The friendship now nearing its close had all along
rested on genuine human affection and mutual esteem-
not on community of ideas ; for Mr. Potter cared nothing
for speculative doctrines, and had no sympathy whatsoever
with Spencer's religious opinions. Mr. Potter died on
January i, 1892.

     The year closes with reminiscences of very early days.

     1 Set to music by Edward Lear. Spencer was very fond of the song,
and often asked Miss Flora Smith to sing it to him.
310  Life of Herbert Spencer     [CHAP. xx.

     To HIS AUXT ANNA.

                                 28 December, 1891.

     The receipt of Mrs. Jose's   letter suggested to me on  Christ-
mas day something which                                         Last
                                 will perhaps interest you.
summer a very fine piano was presented to me by Mr. Andrew
Carnegie, the American millionaire, and it was utilized for
reviving my first memory of you in a way which you would
perhaps hardly guess. When you were over in Derby during
your marriage tour, and when I was a boy of perhaps nine or
ten, an evening was spent at the house of my uncle John, and
you gave us on the piano one of Beethoven's pieces. I have
remembered it ever since, and it has always been a great
favourite of mine, and on Christmas day I had it played to me

by Miss Baker as being my earliest remembrance associated
with you.
     The incident recalled the second title of the first of Scott's

novels Waverhy" It is sixty years since." What a great
deal has passed since then, and how the recollection of it seems

to shrivel up into nothing !
                         3 11

                 CHAPTER XXI.

ALTRUISM AS A FACTOR IN SOCIAL EVOLUTION.

                          (January, 1892 June, 1893.)

    THE several parts of the Principles of Ethics were not
written with that adherence to the order laid down in the

original programme which had characterized the earlier
volumes of the series. " The Data " had been given to the

world in 1879, under the fear that his health might give

way completely before he could reach it in ordinary course.

Ten years after he again turned aside from the Sociology

to write "Justice." Many things had happened during the
decade showing how crude and distorted were the ideas

entertained on this subject. Moreover, coinciding as it did

to a large extent with the more systematic part of Social

Statics, respecting  parts of which  his opinion had changed,
the publication of   " Justice" was  desirable, both in vindica-

tion of his consistency, and as a corrective to the con-

clusions which, rightly or (as he thought) wrongly, were
being drawn from the earlier work. This Part being off

his hands about midsummer, 1891, he set about writing

the remaining Parts. "The Inductions of Ethics" and
"The Ethics of Individual Life" were issued in June,

1892, thus completing   the first volume  ; "Negative Benefi-
                        Beneficence "     the concluding parts
cence" and "Positive

of the second volume being published by midsummer of

the following  year.    " from  those  errors  of  judgment  that
    To guard   himself
entail mischievous consequences " he solicited the criticisms

of married lady friends on whose judgment he could rely

Mrs. Lecky, Mrs. Leonard Courtney, Mrs. Lynn Linton

and Mrs. Meinertzhagen.
312 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxi.

                           To MRS. LECKY.

                                                18 February, 1892.

I want one or two ladies to act as Grundyometers, and
I have thought of you as an appropriate one. Would you
be kind enough to tell me what you think of the enclosed :
bearing in mind that       "I
u Inductions of Ethics         am compelled     by the scheme   of my
                               to give a large  amount of this  detail,

objectionable though it is.

     28 February. Thank you very much for your letter and its
criticisms. I will attend to the points you name, and by so
doing avoid giving handles against me. I am glad to find
that you do not think the general presentation of the subject
objectionable.

27 May. Again I put your function of Grundyometer in
                           Here are      two                   "Marriage" and
r"ePquairseitniothn.ood,"    in respect    of    chapters on    like the opinion

                                               which I should

of some ladies.

    The Standard (i July) embraced the occasion of the
appearance of the completed first volume to give an outline

of the  work he              had accomplished during the         past    fifty
years.  Though             during the past decade he had "     been    abso-

lutely at issue on fundamental principles with what still

describes itself as the Liberal Party," he would not, said

the Standard, find much comfort in calling himself a Con-
servative, " for there, too, he would find what he regards as

the socialistic poison at work with undeniable, if not equal

activity." Unqualified acceptance of his views he did not

value very highly. As he said in March, 1892, when thank-
ing Count Goblet d'Alviella for a copy of the Hibbert

Lectures on L'Idee de Dieu :

     That there should be a considerable amount of community
of thought between us is, of course, satisfactory to me, and
that there should be also some points of difference is quite
natural. One who adheres to a doctrine in all its details is
commonly one who has not much independence and originality
of thought, and whose adhesion therefore is of less significance.

     The Ethics were laid under contribution for what he
calls " a remarkable tribute of appreciation " a calendar
of quotations from his works for every day in the year,
compiled by Miss Julia R. Gingell, and afterwards published
as a volume of Aphorisms.
1892-93] Altruism in Social Evolution                                                                               313

     The unauthorized publication of biographical details by
those who came in contact with him in home life or in
business was naturally looked upon as a breach of confi-
dence. This will explain the earlier portions of the follow-

ing letter to a former secretary.

                     To W. H. HUDSON.

                                              27 May, 1892.

    When some time since I saw in the Review of Reviews
extracts from your article in the Arena, I felt inclined to write

to you disapprovingly, expressing the opinion that you ought

not to have published these biographical details, reproduced
here, without my assent. I did not carry out my intention,

however.

    And now that I have met in the Popular Science Monthly
with the report of your lecture delivered at Ithaca, I find
myself called to write rather in the opposite sense ; feeling
that what I had before to say in the way of disapproval is
...now more than counter-balanced by what I have to say in the
way of approbation.     I did not know, until I came to read

this article, that you had so thoroughly grasped the Synthetic
Philosophy in its nature and bearings. . . . You have decidedly
done me a service in putting forward so clearly the origin and
development of the doctrine of evolution, and by correcting,
so far as correction is possible, the erroneous views that are

current respecting my relations to Darwin. 1

Notwithstanding a formal refusal to write a leaflet for

the Ratepayers' Defence League he eventually yielded and

prepared a short paper on " County Council Tyranny"

in carrying out the Public Healtfi Act. The League had

played an active and successful role in the School Board

elections held towards the end of 1891. He himself was
invited to allow himself to be nominated as an Alderman

by the Moderate party in the London County Council.

Though the invitation expressly stated that he was not to

be asked "for any promise of regular attendance," he

regretted that neither  his work   nor his health would permit
                        sit out a  debate, even were I to take
of acceptance. " To

no part in would make me ill for month." The pro-
1

                  it,
                                                                         a

                                                                                                                i.
posed nomination having been announced in the Press

he wished equal publicity to be given to his refusal. The

See Hudson's The Philosophy of Herbert Spencer, chaps, and ii.
3 H Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxi.

publication of his              letter    in   the Standard   (March 14, 1892)
afforded the text                       skit,  headed, " The   Philosopher and
                               for a

the Sufficient Reason," in the Saturday Reriezt'.

     He was opposed to the extension through St. John's
Wood of the Manchester, Sheffield and Lincolnshire Rail-

way (now the Great Central), unless safeguards were
adopted to protect residents from the usual railway

nuisances.

                               To THE EARL OF WEMYSS.

                                                              1 June, 1892.

I  I have decided to put down in writing the essential things
                                of this new line through St. John's
   have to  say apropos        past the stupid English public have          Wood.
            generation                                                      tamely
     For a

submitted to the enormous evil inflicted upon them by railway
companies at every large town in the kingdom the evil of
peace disturbed day and night by the shrieks of railway
whistles. With their dull, bovine unintelligence they have let

it be tacitly assumed that railway companies, and even private
manufacturers, have a right to make noises of any degree of
loudness, with any degree of frequency, at whatever times they
please. . . . These daily aggressions on hundreds of thousands

of people to some serious and to all annoying ought to be
peremptorily forbidden, even had railway companies to suffer
in consequence considerable inconvenience and cost. But they
need suffer no inconvenience and no cost. This immense

nuisance is wholly superfluous nay more than that, it is con-

tinued at the same time that there might be a signalling system
far more efficient, while entailing relatively little annoyance.

   In a note to Lord Wemyss (30 October, 1892) declining
an invitation to preside at the annual meeting of the Rate-
                                                                   " dull,
puanyinetres'lligDeenfecence"  League, he refers again  to    the           bovine
                               of his countrymen.

     I quite agree with you in your belief that little or nothing
can be' done to check the increasing drift towards socialism,
unless the ratepayers can be roused to action. But unhappily
the English people, and perhaps more than others the middle
classes, are too stupid to generalize. A special matter im-
mediately affecting them, like the Trafalgar Square meeting,
may rouse them to action ,but they cannot be roused to action
by enforcing upon them a general policy. The results are too
remote and vague for their feeble imaginations.

     His rooted objection to giving bodies of men powers
that may be exercised to the detriment of individuals and
1892-93] Altruism in Social Evolution  315

ultimately to the injury of the public comes out in a letter
to Dr. T. Buzzard, who had asked for his signature to

a petition then being signed with a view to obtain a charter
for what is now the Royal British Nurses Association.

                                  To T. BUZZARD.
                                                                      15 March, 1892.

     I greatly regret that I cannot yield to your request, but
I cannot do so without going contrary to my well-established

beliefs.

    If the proposed measure were likely to end where it is
now proposed to end I should not object, but I feel a strong
conviction that it will riot end there, but will be a step towards

further organization and restriction, ending in a law that no
hired nurse may practice without a certificate a restriction
upon individual liberty to which I am strongly opposed.

     I have been for many years observing how changes, which
it was supposed would stop where they were intended, have
gone on to initiate other changes far greater than the first. . . .

     The certificating of a nurse can insure only that she has
a due amount of technical knowledge. It cannot secure sym-
pathy and cannot secure unwearying attention. . . .

     At the present time there is a mania for uniformity, which
I regard as most mischievous. Uniformity brings death, variety
brings life ; and I resist all movements towards uniformity.

     Not only did he object to the obstruction by the Irish
party of useful legislation until Home Rule had been
granted, 1 but he objected also to Home Rule itself.

                        To THE EARL OF DYSART.

                                                                                 27 May, 1892.

     I regret to see by the papers that you have become a Home
Ruler. In my early days I held the unhesitating opinion that
self-government was good for all people, but a life passed in
acquiring knowledge of societies in all stages has brought a
decided change of opinion. The goodness of these or those
institutions is purely relative to the natures of the men living

under them.

     3 June. The political question I must leave untouched,
but I enclose you some paragraphs recently taken from an
American publication respecting the administration of justice
in Chicago, which will serve to illustrate the truth I before

1 Supra, chap, xvii., p. 247.
316 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxi.

pointed out that political arrangements are of small value where
there does not exist a character adapted to them.

A memorandum dated June, 1892, describes a project he

had entertained since    1865, when   he wrote the article on
" Political Fetichism."    It seemed  to him " that immense

advantage would be derived if the Acts of Parliament that

have been tried and repealed during all these past centuries
could be brought together in such wise as that any one

could easily see what they were passed for, what evils they

were to meet, what provisions were made, what effects were

produced, and what are the reasons given for repeal, joined

of course with the dates." Mr. Wordsworth Donisthorpe

had already made an experiment in this way, but the
thing could be done satisfactorily only if some one would
furnish means of defraying the great cost. The matter

fell through owing to the financial support Spencer had
hoped for not being forthcoming. 1 How reluctant he

was to abandon it may be gathered from the following

letters.

                           To W. DONISTHORPE.

                                                                                30 May, 1892.

     I should like to see these sample pages in a finished form,
with the corrections and additions made as you have written
them in red ink. I am quite prepared to be at any such extra
cost as is entailed by making these alterations, for I am very

desirous to preserve a finished sample of the proposed tables.

I do not think I have named before what would be an essential
part of the thing when completed a Subject- Index, so drawn
up as to make it easy to find, under each division and sub-
division and sub-subdivision, all the various Acts of Parliament
referring to any one particular topic. The enclosed sketch will
show what I mean.

17 June. Thanks for the final impression of the table. I

...think before the type is distributed you should certainly have
a considerable number of extra proofs.       I suggest this,
because I have still hopes that something may be done. The
thing is so manifestly important would be so immensely
instructive and so immensely useful, that I think if it is pro-

...perly put before those interested there may be the needful
funds raised.  It might be not amiss to send one of these

               1 Various Fragments, p. 125.
1892-93] Altruism in Social Evolution  317

final copies with the additional columns to Mr. Carnegie, along
with some explanation of the index and mode of reference.
I wish you would speak to Lord Wemyss and the Earl of
Pembroke, saying that you have been doing the thing at my
suggestion and that I think it is supremely important. Pray
let me have the printer's bill.

     Life among the trees and the birds, and the companion-
ship of Mr. and Mrs. Potter's grandchildren, had been
looked forward to long before the time came for the annual
holiday of 1892. From Pewsey he wrote to Miss Baker
in July :

     I get a good deal of sitting out of doors under the trees
bordering the croquet lawn, where I do the greater part of my
work. . . . Yesterday, as I sat there, hearing from time to time
the cooing of a wild dove which had a nest close at hand, I
heard singing at the same time two skylarks, one woodlark,
two chaffinches, a goldfinch, and a linnet, and at other times

there are frequently singing blackbirds, thrushes, robins, besides
other birds of which I do not know the names.

     The return home of Mrs. Meinertzhagen's children, who
had spent a few weeks with him at Pewsey, afforded an
opportunity for setting forth one of the applications of
what he regarded as an important, but neglected subject

the Physics of Physiology. 1

                        To MRS. MEINERTZHAGEN,

                                                             PEWSEY, 20 August, 1892.
     I was glad to get your note and to find from it that you

all thought that the children were looking very well. We
all thought here that they had greatly improved during their

stay.

     May I make a suggestion with respect to clothing ? . . .
There is an enormous amount of mischief consequent upon the
uneven circulation which is caused by uneven covering. The
rationale of the matter is a very simple one. The vascular
system constituted by the heart and by the ramifying system
of blood vessels is a closed cavity having elastic walls. Of
necessity, if you constrict the walls of any part of this cavity,
the blood has to go somewhere, and it is thrust into some other

Supra, chap, viii., p. 96.
318 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxi.

parts of the cavity. If the constriction is great and extends
over a considerable area, the pressure of blood throughout
the unconstricted vessels becomes great and if any of them
are feeble they dilate, producing local congestion. . . . This,
if the cold and consequent constriction are long continued,
is productive of mischief in some cases extreme mischief.
This is very well shown by the effects of wading among
salmon-fishers when they are not extremely strong. I have

...myself experienced the result in producing increased conges-
tion of the brain.  A friend of mine, the late Prof. Sellar,

also a nervous subject had to leave off wading when salmon
fishing, because it forthwith produced palpitation of the
heart. . . . The internal organs of the body are the parts
which have their blood-vessels unduly distended by the pres-
sure, and if any of them are feebler than the rest, more or
less disturbance of function results. In one case, and a most

common one, there may be congestion of the respiratory mem-
branes and a cold or a cough, but in other cases the congestion

is in the alimentary canal and some bowel attack results. . . .
The thing to be aimed at in clothing is such a distribution of
covering as shall keep all parts evenly warmed. . . .
     Excuse my long lecture, but whenever I see what seems to

me an evil I cannot avoid making an effort to rectify it.

     Leading Japanese statesmen, resident in or visiting
London, were wont to consult him on matters bearing
on the changes their country was passing through. He
was not without misgivings when he thought of the risks

incident to the coming together of an oriental and an
occidental civilization. As regards internal affairs he was

impressed with the danger of granting political power at

once to a people hitherto accustomed to despotic rule.
With reference to external or international affairs, he coun-

selled a policy, not of isolation, but of resistance to interfer-
ence by foreigners. This, it must be remembered, was
long before Japan had proved herself able to hold her own
against a European power. What was present to his mind

was the danger that, by means of treaties or other agree-
ments Japan might give foreigners a foothold on her terri-
tory, such as China had given.

     On his way to a meeting of the Institut de Droit Inter-
national at Geneva, Mr. Kentaro Kaneko sought to renew

the intercourse he had enjoyed with Spencer two years

before.
1892-93] Altruism in Social Evolution  319

                             To KEXTARO KANEKO.

                                                             PEWSEY, 21 August, 1892.

     Probably you remember I told you that when Mr. Mori,
the then Japanese Ambassador, submitted to me his draft for
a Japanese Constitution, I gave him very conservative advice,
contending that it was impossible that the Japanese, hitherto
accustomed to despotic rule, should, all at once, become

capable of constitutional government.

     My advice was not, I fear, duly regarded, and so far as I
gather from the recent reports of Japanese affairs, you are
experiencing the evils arising from too large an instalment

of freedom.

     23 August. Since writing to you on Sunday it has recurred

to me, in pursuance of my remarks about Japanese affairs and

the miscarriage of your constitution, to make a suggestion

giving in a definite form such a conservative policy as I thought

should be taken.
     My advice to Mr. Mori was that the proposed new institu-

tions should be as much as possible grafted upon the existing
institutions, so as to prevent breaking the continuity that there
should not be a replacing of old forms by new, but a modifica-
tion of old forms to a gradually increasing extent. I did not
at the time go into the matter so far as to suggest in what way
this might be done, but it now occurs to me that there is a very-
feasible way of doing it.

     You have, I believe, in Japan still surviving the ancient
system of family organization. . . . Under this family or patri-
archal organization it habitually happens that there exists in
each group an eldest male ascendant, who is the ruling authority
of the group an authority who has in many cases a despotic
power to which all descendants of the first and second genera-
tions unhesitatingly submit. This organization should be made
use of in your new political form. These patriarchs or heads
of groups should be made the sole electors of members of your
representative body. . . . Several beneficial results would arise.
In the first place, your electorate would be greatly reduced
in number, and therefore more manageable. In the second

place, the various extreme opinions held by the members of
each group would be to a considerable extent mutually can-
celled and made more moderate by having to find expression
through the patriarch who would in a certain measure be in-
fluenced by the opinions of his descendants. And then, in the
third place, and chiefly, these patriarchal electors, being all
aged men, would have more conservative leanings than the
younger members of their groups would not be in favour
of rash changes.

    In pursuance of the principle for which I have contended,
320 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxi.

that free institutions, to which the Japanese have been utterly
unaccustomed, are certain not to work well, and that there
must be a gradual adaptation to them, I suggest that, for three
or four generations, the assembly formed of representative
men elected by these patriarchial heads of groups should be
limited in their functions to making statements of grievances,
or of evils or what they think evils, w^hich they wish to have
remedied not having any authority either to take measures for
remedying them, or authority even for suggesting measures,
but having the function simply of saying what they regard as
grievances. This would be a function completely on the lines
of the function of our own representative body in its earliest

stages. . . .

     After three or four generations during which this representa-
tive assembly was powerless to do more than state what they
thought were grievances, there might come three or four other
generations in which they should have the further power of
suggesting remedies not the power of passing remedial laws,
such as is possessed by developed representative bodies, but
the power of considering in what way they thought the evils
might be met, and then sending up their suggestions to the
House of Peers and the Emperor.

     And then, after this had been for generations the function
of the representative body, there might eventually be given
to it a full power of legislation, co-ordinate with that of the
other two legislative authorities. Such an organization would
make possible the long-continued discipline which is needful
for use of political power, at the same time that it would at once
do away with the possibilities of these quarrels from which you
are now suffering.

     The Japanese Constitution Mr. Kentaro Kaneko assured
him, had been drawn upon conservative lines, owing
largely to advice given by Spencer and others. While
seeking permission to forward Spencer's two letters to
Count Ito, Mr. Kaneko reminded him (24 August) that
japan was now negociating with the Treaty Powers of
Europe and America to revise the existing treaty. By the
revision Japanese statesmen expected to open the whole
Empire to foreigners and foreign capital, and there was
much difference of opinion in regard to the restrictions
to be put on foreigners (i) holding land, (2) working
mines, and (3) engaging in the coasting trade. Mr. Kaneko
then goes on to say :

      One interesting question viz., inter-marriage of foreigners
with Japanese is now very much agitated among our scholars
1892-93] Altruism in Social Evolution  321

and politicians. This question is one of the most difficult
problems, and it falls within the scope of social philosophers ;
therefore, your opinion will decide the case. Can I be per-
mitted to have the privilege to know your opinion on this

question ?

                          To KENTARO KAXEKO.

                                                                            26 August, 1892.

    Your proposal to send translations of my two letters to
Count Ito, the newly-appointed Prime Minister, is quite satis-
factory. I very willingly give my assent.

     Respecting the further questions you ask, let me, in the
first place, answer generally that the Japanese policy should,
I think, be that of keeping Americans and Europeans as much
as possible at arm's length. In presence of the more powerful
races your position is one of chronic danger, and you should
take every precaution to give as little foothold as possible to
foreigners.

     It seems to me that the only forms of intercourse which
you may with advantage permit are those which are indis-
pensable for the exchange of commodities and exchange of
ideas importation and exportation of physical and mental
products. No further privileges should be allowed to people
of other races, and especially to people of the more power-
ful races, than is absolutely needful for the achievement of
these ends. Apparently you are proposing by revision of the
treaty powers \vith Europe and America u to open the whole
 Empire to foreigners and foreign capital." I regard this as
a fatal policy. If you wish to see what is likely to happen,
study the history of India. Once let one of the more power-
 ful races gain a point d'appni and there wrill inevitably in
 course of time grow up an aggressive policy which will lead
 to collisions with the Japanese ; these collisions will be re-
 presented as attacks by the Japanese which must be avenged ;
 forces will be sent from America or Europe, as the case may
 be ; a portion of territory will be seized and required to be
 made over as a foreign settlement ; and from this there will
 grow eventually subjugation of the entire Japanese Empire.
 I believe that you will have great difficulty in avoiding this fate
 in any case, but you will make the process easy if you allow
 any privileges to foreigners beyond those which I have in-

 dicated.

      In pursuance of the advice thus generally indicated, I should
 say, in answer to your first question, that there should be, not
 only a prohibition to foreign persons to hold property in land,
 but also a refusal to give them leases, and a permission only

 to reside as annual tenants.

      To the second question I should say decidedly, prohibit

            21
322 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxi.

to foreigners the working of the mines owned or worked by
Government. Here there would be obviously liable to arise

grounds of difference between the Europeans or Americans
who worked them and the Government, and these grounds

of difference would immediately become grounds of quarrel,
and would be followed by invocations to the English or
American Governments or other Powers to send forces to
insist on whatever the European workers claimed, for always

the habit here and elsewhere among the civilized peoples is to believe

ivhat their agents or settlers abroad represent to them.

     In the third place, in pursuahce of the policy I have

indicated, you ought also to keep the coasting trade in your
own hands and forbid foreigners to engage in it. This coasting
trade is clearly not included in the requirement I have in-

dicated as the sole one to be recognized a requirement to

facilitate exportation and importation of commodities. The
distribution of commodities brought to Japan from other places

may be properly left to the Japanese themselves, and should
be denied to foreigners, for the reason that again the various
transactions involved would become so many doors open to

quarrels and resulting aggressions.
    To your remaining question, respecting
of  foreigners and Japanese, which you       the  isinte"r-nomwarrivaegrey
                                            say

ymouuchsaaygiitsate"donaemoofngtheourmosscthodlaifrfsicualnt dpprooblilteicmiasn,"s,"myandrewplhyichis
that, as rationally answered, there is no difficulty at all. It
should be positively forbidden. It is not at root a question
of social philosophy. It is at root a question of biology.
There is abundant proof, alike furnished by the inter-marriages
of human races and by the inter-breeding of animals, that
when the varieties mingled diverge beyond a certain slight
degree the result is invariably a bad one in the long run. I have
myself been in the habit of looking at the evidence bearing
on this matter for many years past, and my conviction is based
upon numerous facts derived from numerous sources. This
conviction I have within the last half hour verified, for I
happen to be staying in the country with a gentleman who
is well known as an authority on horses, cattle and sheep,
and knows much respecting their inter-breeding ; and he has

just, on inquiry, fully confirmed my belief that when, say of
different varieties of sheep, there is an inter- breeding of those

which are widely unlike, the result, especially in the second

generation, is a bad one there arises an incalculable mixture
of traits, and what may be called a chaotic constitution. And
the same thing happens among human beings the Eurasians

in India, and the half-breeds in America, show this. The

physiological basis of this experience appears to be that any
one variety of creature in course of many generations acquires
a certain constitutional adaptation to its particular form of life,
1892-93]     Altruism in Social Evolution                  323

and every other variety similarly acquires its own special
adaptation. The consequence is that, if you mix the con-
stitutions of two widely divergent varieties which have severally

become adapted to widely divergent modes of life, you get a
constitution which is adapted to the mode of life of neither
a constitution which will not work properly, because it is not
fitted for any set of conditions whatever. By all means, there-
fore, peremptorily interdict marriages of Japanese with

foreigners.
I have for the reasons indicated entirely approved of the
regulations which have been established in America for restrain-
ing the Chinese immigration, and had I the power would restrict
them to the smallest possible amount, my reasons for this deci-

sion being that one of two things must happen. If the Chinese
are allowed to settle extensively in America, they must either,
if they remain unmixed, form a subject race in the position, if
not of slaves, yet of a class approaching to slaves ; or if they
mix they must form a bad hybrid. In either case, supposing
the immigration to be large, immense social mischief must arise,
                                           The same thing will
and eventually social disorganization.
happen if there should be any considerable mixture of the
European or American races with the Japanese.
    You see, therefore, that my advice is strongly conservative

in all directions, and I end by saying as I began keep other

races at arm's length as much as possible.

     I give this advice in confidence. I wish that it should not
transpire publicly, at any rate during my life, for I do not

desire to rouse the animosity of my fellow-countrymen.
     P.S. Of course, when I say I wish this advice to be in

confidence, I do not interdict the communication of it to Count
Ito, but rather wish that he should have the opportunity of
taking it into consideration.

Though he did not wish this letter made public during

his life, Spencer has endorsed on       the copies  of  the corre-
spondence " My letters of advice         contained  in  this batch

should be read and published." Shortly after his death the

letter of August 26 was sent from Tokio for publication in

the Times    (18 January,    1904), which  wrote of it as  giving
              narrow, as   much imbued     with antipathy  to real
" advice as

progress, as ever came from a self-sufficient, short-sighted

Mandarin, bred in contempt and hatred of barbarians."

     The correspondence makes little mention of the Ethics f
the concluding chapters of which were being written before

he left town in December.
324 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxi.

                          To FREDERIC HARRISOX.

                                                4 December, 1892.

     In your reply to Huxley 1 I have just come upon a passage
(p. 716) which startled me by showing a degree of agreement
between your view and my own concerning certain ultimate
questions much greater than I had supposed. . . .

     I am in the middle of the last chapter of the Ethics. . . .
I have been so ill that during the last fortnight I have been
obliged to suspend work altogether, but when lying in bed
have from time to time made memoranda of thoughts to be

expressed in this closing chapter of the Synthetic Philosophy :
the most significant of these sentences . . . belonging to the
last section of this last chapter. Of the three relevant sentences

here are copies :

     " A transfigured sentiment of parenthood which regards
with solicitude not child and grandchild only, but the genera-

tions to come hereafter fathers of the future creating and

prov"idMinagy  for their  remote children."     ambition  of  the  truly
               we not     say that the highest
beneficient will be to have a share even but an infinitesimal

share in the making of man."
     u While contemplating from the heights of thought that

far-off life of humanity never to be enjoyed by them, but only
by a remote posterity, they will feel a calm pleasure in the
consciousness of having aided by conduct or by teaching the
advance towards it."

     I send you these copies of memoranda, partly because, if
I do not, you will, when the book is published, suppose that
I have been plagiarizing on you ; and partly because they show,
as I say, a degree of agreement greater than I supposed. The
chief difference between us is evidently a matter of names. . . .
I regard the ideas and sentiments contained as belonging to
ethics. You regard them as belonging to religion. . . . You

do not apparently recognize the fact that ethics and religion,
originally one, have been differentiating from the beginning,

and have become in modern times quite distinct ; so that

ethics is being secularlized (as we see even in the teachers
of Christianity, who more and more are unawares separating
                                      do not infer that they
morality from  religion),  and you    reunited. Nor do you    [ethics
and religion]               again be                           admit
               will never

that as religion originally implied belief in a supposed anthro-
morphic power, it remains, when the anthromorphic character
gradually disappears, as a belief in a Power as unknown and
transcending knowledge. As I say, this difference is after all
very much a difference of names, save, indeed, that while I

                          Fortnightly Review, December.
   1892-93] Altmism in Social Evolution              325

   consider that there will be a persistent recognition of this
   unknown Power, you apparently do not think the recognition
   of it will continue.

        Just before Christmas he went to St. Leonards, and
   never afterwards spent a winter in London.

                        To SIR WILLIAM H. FLOWER.

                                               ST. LEONARDS, 17 January^ 1893.

     I am sorry that I cannot join the Committee of the Owen
memorial. Two obstacles stand in the way.

     For a long time past I have held that the getting up of
testimonials and memorials is becoming an abuse and should

be resisted. . . .
     The second obstacle is that, large though Owen's claims

may be in the way of achievement, he lacked a trait which
I think essential he was not sincere. He did not say out
candidly what he believed, but tried to please both parties,
the scientific world and the religious world. This is not my
impression only, but that, I believe, of many.

     After some reflection he changed his mind and wrote
requesting his name to be added to the Committee.

     As he grew older his dissatisfaction with the trend of
political and social affairs at home and abroad became
more acute.

                                To JOHN TYNDALL.
                                                                   30 January, 1893.

     You are doubtless looking forward with eagerness and
anxiety to the opening of Parliament and the disclosure of
this great scheme of national dissolution. What a state of the
world we are living in, with its socialism and anarchisms, and
all kinds of wild ideas and destructive actions ! The prophesies
I have been making from time to time ever since 1860, as to
the results of giving to men political power without imposing
on them equivalent political burdens, are becoming true faster
than I had anticipated.

   3 April.  -I,        in common with you, look at the state of the

                       ;
world in dismay but have for long time past seen the
                           I  it a

inevitableness of the tremendous disasters that are coming.
   . . But you and will not live to see it. Happily  think
.                       I                            I
                                                                I

may say happily we shall be out of before the crash comes.
326      Life of Herbert Spencer  [CHAP. xxi.

                            To H. R. Fox BOURXE.

                                                                        2 March, 1893.
     Has anything been done by the Aborigines Protection
Society in respect of this division of Queensland ? Surely
some very strong protest should be made. It has been all
along conspicuous enough that the proposals for division arise
among sugar planters, who are anxious to be able to import
Kanakas without any restraint, and to reduce them, as they
inevitably do, to a state of slavery. As to any safeguards due
to contract and appeal to magistrates for protection, the thing
is simply absurd.
     It seems to me that while we are pretending to be anxious
to abolish slavery in Africa, we are taking measures to establish
slavery under another name in Australia.

     In  his letter   to Professor Tyndall of April    3,  quoted
         mention     is made of " a domestic crisis,  due   to the
above,

allegation made by the ladies of my household, that their

means would not enable them to carry out our agreement

any longer, easy as it is for them. This entailed on me

dreadful worry, and an amount of both intellectual and

emotional perturbation that knocked me down utterly, so

that a few days ago I was worse than I had been these six
years." This was a grievous upsetting of the arrangement

entered into so hopefully in 1889. From the beginning he
had made no secret that his reason for setting up a house

of his -own was his craving for the social comforts and

pleasures of domestic life. It is difficult, therefore, to

understand how it could have been assumed by these

ladies that in his own house he would live almost entirely

by himself, leaving the other members of the household

to go their own way. For such a solitary life there was

absolutely no reason why he should have exchanged the

conveniences-- and comforts of Queen's Gardens, saddling
himself also with greatly increased expenditure. When the

arrangement was first proposed some of his friends felt

that unless carried out with more than ordinary prudence

on both sides it would not work smoothly, there being

so many points on which misunderstanding might arise.

Instead of the household partaking of the unity of one

family, there were really two family interests, and these

two interests could not be counted upon to pull always

in the same direction. Union of interests in certain things
1892-93] Altruism in Social Evolution                    327

and separation of interests in others could only be carried

on with the utmost forbearance on both sides and the

most generous interpretation of the terms of the agree-

ment. In both these respects it speaks well for those

concerned that it worked so harmoniously as it did for

some years. When differences at length arose his principal

concern was to get at the facts, so that the ladies might

be in a position to satisfy themselves as to whether it

was or was not in their interests to continue the arrange-

ment. While doing all he could to meet their views of

economy and his own views of equity, and thus to allow of

the arrangement being continued, he did not look upon

its termination as a calamity that must be averted at almost

any cost. There was a point beyond which he would not
go in the matter of concession. " You and your sisters

...have to accept or reject my proposals generous proposals,
I think them.  I do not wish any further letters or

proposals or correspondence, and would willingly have

given ^500 rather than suffer the illness which the business
has brought upon me . . . and will have no more trouble
about the matter. You have simply to say ' yes ' or ' no '

to the agreement I have proposed." After some hesitation

his terms were accepted and a new agreement drawn up.

The settlement of this disagreeable matter enabled him

to leave town with an easier mind.

               To SIR JOHX. LUBBOCK.

               PEWSEY, 18 May, 1893.

Thanks for your invitation, but you see by the address that
I am out of reach. An old friend of mine went over to

...Brussels to make a morning call and came straight back, but
you would hardly expect me to emulate him.  I fear that

now the X. is dead there is but little chance of our meeting,
save by accident at the Club. I wish it were otherwise.

                              To JOHX HAWKE.

                                                                 PEWSEY, 29 May, 1893.
     Having, as you say, expressed myself strongly on the subject
of gambling and betting, I feel bound to give some little aid
to your society, which aims, if not to suppress it (which is
hopeless), yet to diminish and herewith enclose cheque. . .
     As to giving my name as one of the Vice- Presidents, should
have no objection were not that the association of my name
               it it,
                                        I

                                                          I
                                                                                                                   .
328  Life of Herbert Spencer  [CHAP. xxi.

with a body so largely clerical in its character would lead to
adverse criticisms. It is not that I in the least object to such
an association, and it may be that the clergymen named are
sufficiently liberal to work with one whose religious opinions
are so obviously at variance with their own. But experience
in another case has led me to see that I shall be liable to
adverse interpretation of my motives. Change in my opinions
concerning land-tenure has been ascribed to a desire to in-
gratiate myself with the land-owning class, and I doubt not
that if I were, as you suggest, to accept the position of vice-
president along with so many members of the Church, it would
be ascribed to a desire to ingratiate myself with the clergy.

     Neither imperialism nor athleticism found favour with

him ; one reason for his objection to the latter being the
vice of betting associated with it. An invitation to join
the general committee being formed to carry out the Pan-
Britannic Idea, expounded in Greater Britain was declined.

                             To J. ASTLEY COOPER.
                                                          PEWSEY, 20 June, 1893.

     I fear I cannot yield to your suggestion, and for the reason
that I entertain grave doubts respecting the aims of the
organization to which Greater Britain points.

     A federation of Great Britain with her colonies would in my
opinion have the effect of encouraging aggressive action on the
part of the colonies, with a still more active appropriation of
territories than is at present going on, and there would be
continued demands upon the mother-country for military and

financial aid.

     28 June. Though your explanation serves to remove the
objection I made, it does not remove another objection which I
did not name.

     I have long held that athleticism has become an abuse, and
occupies far too much space in life and in public attention ; and
I should be very much averse to any arrangement like that you
propose which would tend to render it more prominent than
it is already.

    When I tell you that in the space of nearly 50 years spent
in London I have never once been to see the University Boat
Race, and have never witnessed a cricket match at Lord's, and
that for many years past I have intentionally refrained from
doing so, you will see that my views on the matter are such as

to negative the cooperation you suggest.
                        329

                         CHAPTER XXII.

                  LATTER DAY CONTROVERSIES.

                       (November, 1889 October, 1895.)

                        (i.)

SOON after taking up residence in Avenue Road in the

autumn of 1889 he was plunged into a controversy, which
not only interrupted his work and embittered his life for

several months, but broke up for a time an intimate and

vajued friendship of nearly forty years' standing. This
most unfortunate event had its origin in a meeting Mr.

John Morley had at Newcastle with his constituents, one
of whom urged the nationalization of the land, Spencer being

quoted in favour of the resumption of ownership by the

community (Times, November 5). In a letter to the Times
(November 7) Spencer pointed out that the book referred
to was published forty years ago, and that, while still

adhering to the general principles, he now dissented from

some of the deductions. The land question had been

discussed in Social Statics in the belief that it was not

likely to come to       the front for many  generations   ;  but it
had been pointed         out that when it   did come           " the
                                                         up

business of compensation of landowners would be a com-

plicated one." "Investigations made during recent years

into the various forms of social organization, have in part

confirmed      I  and   in part changed the views published in
            "     have   no positive opinion as to what may here-

1850."
after take place. The reason for this state of hesitancy is

that I cannot see my way towards reconciliation of the

ethical requirements with the politico-economical require-

ments." Nothing was said by Spencer in this letter about
the opinion attributed to him at Newcastle that " to right
33O Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxn.

one wrong it is sometimes necessary to do another." He

now (Times, November u) wrote to say that as he could not
remember everything he had written during the last forty

years, it  would be unsafe to assert             p"osBituivt emlyy               that he    had
nowhere    expressed such an opinion.                                            belief is  that

I have not said this in any connexion, and I certainly have

not said it in connexion                         ofwivthiewthwe asqu"esthtiaotn    of landowner-
ship." The only change                                                           whereas in 1850

I supposed that resumption of landownership by the com-

munity would be economically advantageous, 1 now hold

that, if established with due regard to existing claims, as I

have always contended it should be, it would be dis-

advantageous."

Professor Huxley now entered the lists, writing (Times,
November 12) "in the name of that not inconsiderable

number     of   persons to whom absolute          ethics and a                       priori
politics   are   alike stumbling-blocks."        " I have long
                                                                                      been

of opinion that the great political evil of our time is the

attempt to sanction popular acts of injustice by antiquarian

and speculative arguments. My friend, Mr. Spencer,
                                                                                 a
am sure, the last person willingly to abet this tendency."                                   is,
1
Professing himself unable to see in what respect his friend
       a
and he disagreed on the land question, Spencer, in his
                                      .
reply, took up the comments                      m" aHdoewebvyerPromfeuscshor    Huxley
                                              aon absolute political ethics.      politi-

cian may pooh-pooh social ideals, he cannot take steps

towards bettering the social state without tacitly entertain-

ing them. . . The complaint of Professor Huxley that

absolute political ethics does not show us what to do in

each concrete case seems to me much like the complaint

of medical practitioner who should speak slightingly of

physiological generalizations because they did not tell him

the right dressing for wound, or how best to deal with

varicose veins" (Times, November 15).

     Having intimated that the above letter was to be his                        is
last, he did not reply to the rejoinder from Professor
Huxley (Times, November 18), in which reference made
to Spencer's " remarkable inability to see that we disagree
on the land question," and to the physiological argument
1889-95]        Latter Day Controversies                                  331

which " is   hardly chosen   with so much prudence as might
             expected." "   Mr. Spencer could not have chosen
have been

a better illustration of the gulf fixed between his way of

thinking and mine. Whenever physiology (including path-

ology), pharmacy and hygiene are perfect sciences, I have

no doubt that the practice of medicine will be deducible

from the first principles of these sciences. That happy day

has not arrived yet." And if at present it would be unsafe

for the medical practitioner to treat bodily diseases by

deduction what is to be said of the publicist who "seeks

guidance not from the safe, however limited, inductions

based on careful observation and experience, but puts his

faith in long chains of deduction from abstract ethical

assumptions,    ha"rdly  any link         of which  can                   be tested
experimentally    ?

he  On being reminded by    Mr.            Frederick Greenwood            that
    had not yet repudiated                doctrine that " to right        one
                            the

wrong it is sometimes necessary to do another," Spencer
"Itwrote (Times, November 19) :
                                          never occurred to me

that, after what I said, this was needful. But as he

thinks otherwise, I very willingly repudiate                              both for
                         it
                              I

                                                  it I
                                                                     it,
the past and the present. Even did wish to continue

my discussion with Professor Huxley, would be ended

by his letter. From                       learn that the principles of

physiology, as at present known, are of no use whatever

for guidance in practice, and my argument, therefore,

collapses."        week later (Times, November 27) he wrote
again "      cannot allow the late controversy to pass without
           :
                                                                          The
                I

                    A

                                                    a

                                                           it
                                                                                    a

                                                                                                                                                  .
                                                                                                                                                        .
                                                                                                                                                               .

                                                                                                   it,
disclaiming the absurd ideas ascribed to me.

suggestion that an ideal must be kept in view, so that our

movements may be towards                  and not away from

has been regarded as proposal forthwith to realize the

ideal."

    The breach thus brought about was matter of much

concern to their intimate friends, specially so to Professor

Tyndall, Sir Joseph Hooker, Dr. Hirst, and other members
of the X Club.
                came as surprise to Professor Huxley,
                It

                                       a

who was not aware of having said anything sharper than

he had said before, both privately and publicly.
132 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxn.

                             FROM JOHN TYXDALL.

                                         25 November, 1889.

You may well believe that this newspaper controversy has
been a source of mourning to my wife and me. Many a time
since it began have I wished to be at your side or, better still,
to have you and Huxley face to face. With a little tact and
moderation the difference between you if a difference exist at
all might have been easily arranged. When I read the con-

cluding part             of  your first  long letter, where you speak            of state
oSpwennecresrhip! "     as   resulting    in disaster, I exclaimed,              " Bravo

                     ;  but on reading the whole letter, it seemed to me

that you were too anxious to prove your consistency. Relying
upon merits which            ttohesawy,ho"leDawmonrldcoancskisntoewncleydg!e"s,
I think, to be able                                                                you ought,
                                                                                 in regard to

these scraps and fragments of your views. . . . From a public
point of view, and with reference solely to the questions dis-
cussed, I thought Huxley's letters excellent. From another point
of view, he might, I think, have kept more clearly in mind that
he was dealing not with an ordinary antagonist, but with a friend
who had such just and undeniable claims upon his admiration
and affection. . . . It is a monstrous pity that you and he should

appear to stand before the public as antagonists, to an extent
far beyond what the facts would justify. You deal with political
principles ; he deals with the problems of the hour the
problems, that is to say, that have to shape the course of the
practical statesman. There is no necessary antagonism here.

     The breach might have been repaired before the end
of the year had Spencer talked the matter over with his

friends, instead of shutting himself up and seeing no one.

The friendly offices of the other members of the X Club

were offered for the adjustment of the difference ; but instead
of availing himself of these, he wrote a letter withdrawing
from the Club a letter which, on Sir Joseph Hooker's ad-
vice, was kept back. Professor Huxley was quite ready to meet
him more than half-way : intimating in a letter to Sir Joseph
Hooker, intended for Spencer's perusal, that he had not the
slightest intention of holding Spencer up to ridicule ; that
nothing astonished him more and gave him greater pain
than Spencer taking the line he did ; that his wish was, if

needs be, to take all the wrong on his own shoulders and to
assure Spencer that there had been no malice; and that if

he had been in Spencer's estimation needlessly sharp in
1889-95]  Latter Day Controversies  333

reply, he was extremely sorry for it. It is a pity that
the olive branch thus held out was not accepted. In ex-
planation of his attitude Spencer wrote to Professor Tyndall

(9 December) :

    Doubtless you and others of the Club [the X] do not fully

understand the state of mind produced in me, because you are
not aware that almost everything said by Huxley [concerning
my views] wras a misrepresentation more or less extreme, and
in some cases an inexcusable misrepresentation. . . . The
effect on me has been such that the thoughts and irritations
have been going round in my brain day and night as in a mill,
without the possibility of stopping them.

     12 December. I cannot let things remain in the state in
\vhich the controversy in the limes left them ; and to put them
in some measure straight, and rectify to a small extent the
mischief done, I am preparing a short article for the Nineteenth

Century.

     With the new year the controversy entered upon a new

phase.

                               To JOHN TYNDALL.

                                                                          8 February, 1890.

     I send you a copy of the Daily Telegraph [8 February] in
which, as you will see, I have had to defend myself against

another grave misrepresentation.
     One would have thought that after having done me so

much mischief and after having professed his regret, Huxley
would at least have been careful not to do the like again
forthwith, but besides a perfectly gratuitous sneer unmistakably
directed against me in the opening of his article in the current
number of the Nineteenth Century, there comes this mischievous
characterization diffused among the quarter of a million readers
of the Daily Telegraph.

     In the Daily Telegraph of 23 January, Mr. Robert
Buchanan had taken up "the criticism of the socialistic
theories of Rousseau by Professor Huxley, in the Nineteenth
Century." In a second letter (27th) he referred to Spencer
as one of those who "are socialists only in the good and
philosophical sense, and who are not, like mere com-
munists, enemies of all vested interests whatsoever." In a
third communication (3 February) he criticized letters from
334 Life of Herbert Spencer [CITAP. xxu.

Professor  Huxley of the    29th and 3ist respectively.            In the
former of  these Professor  Huxley had animadverted             on " the

political philosophy which Mr. Buchanan idolizes, the con-

sistent application of which reasoned savagery to practice
would have left the working classes to fight out the struggle

for existence among themselves, and bid the State to
                                                 If a man has
content   itself with keeping the  r"initg.i"s                  nothing
to offer  in exchange for a loaf,               not I, but the  extreme

Individualists, who will say that he may starve. If the

State relieves his necessities, it is not I, but they, who say

it is exceeding its powers ; if private charity succours the

poor fellow, it is not I, but they, who reprove the giver for

interfering with the survival of the fittest." A keen contro-

versialist like Professor Huxley could not fail to fasten on

the sentence in which Mr. Buchanan classed Spencer with
socialists in the good and philosophical sense. " I had

fondly supposed, until Mr. Robert Buchanan taught me

better, that if there was any charge Mr. Spencer would find
offensive, it would be that of being declared to be, in any
shape or way, a socialist." He wondered whether Mr.
Buchanan had read The Man versus the State. " However

this may be, I desire to make clear to your readers what the
' good and philosophical sort of Socialism,' which finds

expression in the following passages, is like." Professor

Huxley then gave quotations from, or references to, passages
in The Man versus the State, pp. 19, 21, 22, 24, 27, 34, 35. 1

           To ROBERT BUCHANAN.

                                                5 February, 1890.

     Thank you for your last letter to the Daily Telegraph,
received this morning. You have shown yourself extremely
chivalrous in taking up the question in this and in the preceding

letters.
...In the course of our conversation on Sunday I did not to any
extent enter upon the questions at issue.       It seems to me,
however, that candour requires me to say that I cannot entirely

endorse the version you give of my political views. Unless
understood in a sense different from that which will ordinarily

     ' The corresponding pages in the library edition are 297, 300, 300-1,

33. 36, 3'5. 3i6.
1889-95]      Latter Day Controversies            335

be given   "  to them, I hardly    see how the     words l> higher
Socialism     are applicable. It  is true that I  look forward to

a future in which the social organization will differ immensely
from any we now know, and perhaps from any we now con-
ceive. . . . But I hold that competition and contract must
persist to the last and that any equalizations which interfere
with their free play will be mischievous. The fact that from
the beginning of my political life I have been an opponent of
national education, and continue to be one, will show you that
I cannot coincide in your view that it is the duty of society
to prepare its individual members for the battle of life. I hold

it to be exclusively the duty of parents. . . .

    Sanguine of human progress as I used to be in earlier days,
I am now more and more persuaded that it cannot take place
faster than human nature is itself modified ; and the modifica-
tion is a slow process, to be reached only through many, many
generations. When I see the behaviour of these union men
in the strikes we have had and are having ; when I see their
unscrupulous tyranny and utter want of any true conception

of liberty, it seems to me unquestionable that any new regime
constituted in their interests Would soon lapse into a despotic

organization of a merciless type.

     Borrowing as a  pPhoreionaftedesidnsgoroufotHr uthxaaletley"t'steforprhtornaestaherely"DfRaifeitlyaysyoTeneaelreds-
graph (8 February)
Savagery," Spencer

I have contended that the pains attendant on the struggle

for existence may fitly be qualified by the aid which private
sympathy prompts." " Everyone will be able to judge

whether this opinion is rightly characterized by the phrase
' Reasoned Savagery.' "

    To realize the bitterness of Spencer's feelings it is neces-

sary to be reminded of the sense of injustice that rankled

in his breast on reflecting that, notwithstanding the precept

and example of a lifetime in denouncing every form of

oppression and injustice, he should be charged with up-

holding brutal individualism and his views should be
branded as " reasoned savagery." One must also remem-

ber that the ill-health and depression, which in recent years

had kept him away from London and more or less in retire-

ment, had induced a state of abnormal sensitiveness to

criticism. Moreover, clinging to friendship so tenaciously

as he did and entertaining such a high ideal of its obligations,

he felt with special keenness an act which, rightly or wrongly,
336 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxn.

he regarded as unfriendly. Taking into account all the

circumstances one can understand the difficulty he had in

responding to the efforts of the friends of both to repair

the breach. These efforts were after a time given up, and

Professor Huxley's name, hitherto so frequently met with,

almost disappears from the correspondence for some years.

It was not till towards the close of 1893 that cordial relations
were re-established.

And yet in the spring of that year the prospect of a

resumption of friendly relations  was by no means bright.
Though alive to " the dangers of  open collision with ortho-

doxy on the one hand and Spencer on the other," Professor

Huxley introduced into his Romanes lecture passages which

Spencer understood to be directed against him.

                             To JAMES A. SKILTON.

                                                          PEWSEY, 29 June, 1893.
     I am glad to hear that you think of taking up Huxley's
u Evolution and Ethics." . . . Practically his view is a sur-
render of the general doctrine of evolution in so far as its higher
applications are concerned, and is pervaded by the ridiculous
assumption that, in its application to the organic world, it is
limited to the struggle for existence among individuals under
its ferocious aspects, and has nothing to do with the develop-
ment of social organization, or the modifications of the human
mind that take place in the course of that organization. . . .
The position he takes, that we have to struggle against or
correct the cosmic process, involves the assumption that there
exists something in us which is not a product of the cosmic
process, and is practically a going back to the old theological
notions, which put Man and Nature in antithesis. Any rational,
comprehensive view of evolution involves that, in the course
of social evolution, the human mind is disciplined into that
form which itself puts a check upon that part of the cosmic
process which consists in the unqualified struggle for existence. 1

     Spencer had made up his mind not to take the matter up
himself, but his resolution gave way on reading a review
of the lecture in the Athenceum for 22 July. The result was

     1 With this description of Professor Huxley's views the reader may
compare, besides the Romanes lecture itself, the Prolegomena published
later (Huxley's Collected Essays, vol. ix. Also letter to Mr. Thomas
Common in Life and Letters, ii., 360.
1839-95]  Latter Day Controversies

a letter on "Evolutionary Bthics " in that Journal for
5 August. Towards the close of the paper he enumerated

eight fundamental  po"inOtsbvoifouasglrye,etmheennt,  between himself   and
Professor Huxley.                                     it is impossible  that

Professor Huxley can have meant to place the ethical views

he holds in opposition to the ethical views I hold ; and

it is the more obviously impossible because, for a fortnight

before his lecture, Professor Huxley had in his hands the

volumes containing the above quotations along with multi-

tudinous passages of kindred meanings." Learning that

these words were taken to imply that Professor Huxley

had adopted views set forth in the Ethics without ac-

knowledgment, he sent a copy of "Evolutionary Ethics"
on which he wrote "a few undated lines," signed " H.S."
A reply in the third person "quite startled" Spencer, who

had no   thought  of discourtesy in the form of        his  memo-
randum,  and no   idea that the closing sentence      of "
                                                            Evolu-

tionary Ethics" could be interpreted to imply a charge of

appropriating ideas without acknowledgment. An exchange

of conciliatory notes dissipated the stormy clouds and

prepared the way for the final reconciliation.

                             FROM T. H. HUXLEY.

                                                                                    24 October, 1893.

     I am very sorry to hear that you are ill and I would gladly
do anything that might help to alleviate perturbations of either
mind or body.

     We are old men and ought to be old friends. Our estrange-
ment has always been painful to me. Let there be an end to
it. For my part, I am sorry if anything I have said or done

has been, or has seemed, unjust.

                             To T. H. HUXLEY.

                                                                                   26 October, 1893.

    Your sympathic letter received this morning has given me
great satisfaction. We are both of ns approaching our last
clays, . . . and to whichever of us survived it would have
been a sad thought had forty years of friendship ended in a
permanent estrangement. Happily by your kind expressions
that clanger is now finally averted and cordial relations re-

established.

         22
                  Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxit.

                             (*.)

     When examining Spencer's various utterances on the
Land Question in A Perplexed Philosopher, Mr. Henry
George went "out of his way to ascribe the changes of

view to unworthy motives, alleging that the recantation

of early opinions had been made with a view to curry
favour with the upper classes. This attack upon his
character Spencer felt very keenly. In a letter to Mr.
Skilton of New York, dated 6 January, 1893, he says he
would himself decline to take notice of such publication.

My American friends may, however, if they like, take the
matter up, and may effectually dispose of its libellous state-
ments. By way of aiding them in doing this, I will put down
sundry facts which they may incorporate as they see well.
     In the first place, irrespective of numerous utterly false
insinuations, there are two direct falsehoods. . . .
    The first of  them is contained in
where he says     I have placed myself  "thdeefiInnittreolyduocntionth,e  p. 9,
                                                                           side

of those who contend that the treatment of land as private
property cannot equitably be interfered with." I have said
nothing of the kind. I have continued to maintain that the
right of the whole community to the land survives and can
never be destroyed ; but I have said . . . that the community
cannot equitably resume possession of the land without making
compensation for all that value given to it by the labour of
successive generations. . . . The sole difference between my

position in Social Statics and my more recent position is this :

In Social Statics I have . . . tacitly assumed that such com-
pensation, if made, would leave a balance of benefit to the

community. Contrariwise, on more carefully considering the
matter in recent years, I have reached the conclusion that to
make anything like equitable compensation the amount required
....would be such as to make the transaction a losing one
...And  I reached the conclusion that the system of public
administration, full of the vices of officialism, would involve
more evils than the present system of private administra-

tion. . . .       falsehood  is the statement  on p. 201 that " the

    The second

name of Herbert Spencer now appears with those of about all

the dukes in the kingdom as the director of an association
...formed for the purpose of defending private property in
land."  So far as I know there is no such association
at all. The only association which can be referred to is the
...Liberty and Property Defence League, . . . but I am not a
member of that association.        If he means the Ratepayers'
1889-95]       Latter Day Controversies                                                      339

Defence League, the ,xeply is that this is not an association
for defending landed property, but for defending the interests

of occupiers, and I joined it as a ratepayer to check the

extravagant demands on ratepayers made by the County
Council. . . .

     As to the alleged cultivation of social relations with the

landed classes, it is sufficiently disposed of by the fact that
ever since my visit to America I have been so great an invalid
as to be prevented from going into society. Not once in
the course of the last ten years have I had any social inter-
course with those of the classes referred to.

     By way of meeting the various counts of Mr. George's
indictment respecting motives, I will set down the facts, which

prove motives exactly contrary to those he alleges.
     TmhoettorirsftromconcBerronwnpinegcunisiar"yJuasdtvafnotragaesh. andTfhuel  first line
his                                                                              of silver   of
                                                                                             he
left us." The facts of my career are these. For the first
ten years, from 1850-60, I lost by every book published ;
the returns not sufficing to anything like repay printing ex-
penses. During a period of nearly ten years subsequently, the
returns on my further books were so small as not to meet my
necessary expenses, so that I had continually to trench upon
my small property, gradually going the way to ruin myself,
until at length I notified that I must discontinue altogether :
one result of this notification being the American testimonial.
When, some little time after, the tide turned and my works
began to be remunerative, what was my course ? Still living as
economically as possible, I devoted the whole surplus of my
returns to the payments for compilation and printing of the
Descriptive Sociology, and this I continued to do for a dozen
years, until, year by year deliberately sinking money, I had
lost between 3,000 and 4,000 (over 4,000 if interest on
capital sunk be counted). I finally ceased, not only because
I could no longer afford to lose at this rate, but because the
                                          This was
work was altogether unappreciated.      " a handful   not the course
of a man who was to be tempted by       " Just for a                                      "
                                                      of                         silver
     The second line of his motto is                                                     !

                                                      ribbon to stick

in his coat."IIas seems, this quotation    if                                    intended to
                                                 is
       a
                                                   I
               I
                           If,
                                    it

                                    I
imply my anxiety for honours, no allegation more absolutely

...at variance with well-known facts could be made.
                                                                                         It

                                                                                              is

said that seek political honours. Well, so, could not

have gone about to achieve them in more absurd ways. . . .;
   have singled out Mr. Gladstone, at that time Prime Minister,

as sample of the unscientific mind and more recently . . .
   have singled out the then Prime Minister, Lord Salisbury,

to ridicule his reasoning. So that by way of achieving honours
accorded by the State, have spoken disrespectfully of the
two men who had in their hands the distribution of such

honours.
34-O Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxn.

                               To C. KEGAN PAUL.
                                                                   10 January, 1893.

    This morning announces the publication of a book by you
entitled A Perplexed Philosopher by Mr. Henry George. Have
you looked at it ? You need not look far : it will suffice if you
read the quotation from Browning on the title page.

     Probably you know enough about my career to judge what
warrant there is for the implied parallel, and whether you
think it desirable to identify yourself with the book as its
publisher.

     12 January. My letter gave no indication of any objection
I have to critical argument ; even the most trenchant. That,
with my antecedents, you should assume that I have any objec-
tion to an attack upon my views surprises me.

     But I spoke of the book as a u laboured calumny," and I
thought that you might not like to be instrumental in circulating
libellous statements.

                           To JAMES A. SKILTON.

                                                                         1 March, 1893.
     You appear to look largely or mainly at the general question,
whereas to me the general question is of no importance. The
Synthetic Philosophy can take care of itself. . . . Similarly
about the Land Question. I have never dreamed of entering
into controversy with Mr. Henry George about that or anything

else. . . .

     The only thing about which I am concerned is the personal
question the vile calumny which the man propagates, and the
only question is whether it is worth while to do anything in the
way of rebutting this.

      He was anxious that the authenticity of the facts com-
 municated to Mr. Skilton should be guaranteed by more
 than one name. The reply was accordingly prepared by
a committee formed from among his New York friends,
 and published in the Tribune (November 12).

                            To JAMES A. SKILTON.

                                             ST. LEONARDS, 25 November, 1894.
      Thank you for all the trouble you have taken in the George
 business. There have been in the course of the arrangements
 sundry dangers which have now been happily avoided, and the

 final result is as good as I could wish. Whatever Mr. George
 may say, I do not think he will succeed in neutralizing this

  effective exposure. . . .

      If you feel inclined now to make a Hank attack by dealing
1889-95]       Latter Day Controversies                       341

with Henry George and his doctrines, by all means do so, but
if you do, please take care not to bring my name or my views
into the matter. I do not wish to be in any way implicated.

     13 December. A few days ago I decided that by way of
setting finally at rest this abominable business in America, it
would be well if I published there the pamphlet referred to in
the inclosed preface which I drew up for it a pamphlet not
at all in any direct way replying to Mr. George, but indirectly
disposing of his allegations. I have, however, since come to
the conclusion that this course may be of doubtful policy, since,
conclusively disproving all he says as the pamphlet does, it will,
nevertheless, furnish him with texts for further diatribes. I
send over the preface to you and to your co-signatories to ask
an opinion on this point. . . .

     From the above you will see that I hesitate a little as to the
propriety of giving Mr. George any further opportunities of
carrying on the controversy, and for this same reason I hesi-
tate respecting your proposed war with him carried on inde-

pendently.

     24 December. I am again in two minds as so the best course
to pursue. It does not matter how conclusive the case may
be made against Mr. George, he will still go on arguing and
asserting and multiplying side issues about irrelevant matters.
The politic course, therefore, is to make one good point and
there leave it.

    If I am right in the inference that in Progress and Poverty he

said nothing about my insisting on compensation, that should be
the point made.

     12 January, 1895. Lies and treacheries are implements of
war regarded as quite legitimate in actual war. I saw a while
ago in some speech of a trade-unionist, that they regarded their
relations with the masters as a state of war, and that their acts,

ordinarily regarded as criminal, were legitimate. Doubtless
Mr. George and the Land Nationalizes think the same thing

and are prepared to abandon all moral restraint in pursuit of
their ends. Hence this proceeding of his congruous with
all his other proceedings. Hence, too, similar proceedings over
here. Though I interdicted the republication of the corre-
spondence in the Daily Chronicle along with that pamphlet you
have, yet they have now issued it separately without asking

me. . . .

     As to your proposals for a brief treatise on the Land
                                     in further explanation,  I do not
           at  large     from   me   say anything more         it would
        way.              were   to
                 If
Question              I

...see my
...be merely in further explanation of the attitude I have
taken.    As to anything larger, such as you adumbrate

a general [conception] of the relations of men to the soil
342 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxn.

based on general sociological principles, I have got nothing
to say.

     The correspondence in the Daily Chronicle referred to in
the last quoted letter arose out of the leaflet issued with
Spencer's assent by the Land Restoration League, giving
in parallel columns extracts from Social Statics and from
Justice.

     The matter might have ended here but for a lecture
by Mr. William Lloyd Garrison, junr., delivered in New
York on 6th January, 1895.

                         To WILLIAM JAY YOUMANS.
                                                                   22 January, 1895.

     The inclosed report of Mr. Garrison's lecture, which Mr.
Skilton has sent me, opens my eyes to the fact that it is needful
that the public should be disabused of the notion that I have
changed my essential convictions. The whole of Mr. George's
vituperation and the whole of this lecture proceed on the
assumption that I have repudiated my views on the ownership
of land, which I have not, having only changed my view with
regard to the financial policy of a change. If this fact is made
clear it takes the wind out of Mr. George's sails.

     Inclosed I send the draft of a letter in which this is

demonstrated, and unless you see strong reason to the con-

trary, I should be glad if some one either yourself, or Dr.
Janes, or Mr. Skilton would publish this letter in The Tribune
or elsewhere ; if possible, in several places.

     On the advice of Mr. Skilton and Dr. W. J. Youmans

the letter was published as a preface to the parallel-column
pamphlet on the Land Question. 1

                           To JAMES A. SKILTON.

                                                                       22 February, 1895.

     Herewith I enclose the postscript for the pamphlet. In
pursuance of the resolution which you intimate to me as
agreed upon by friends, the pamphlet may now with its preface
and postscript be issued without further delay. With its issue
I must wash my hands entirely of the whole^[of the ^George

business.

     The correspondence continued in a somewhat desultory
fashion into the following year. Into the merits of the

     1 Mr. Herbert Spencer on the Land Question, published by D. Appleton
& Co., New York, 1895.
1889-95]  Latter Day Controversies                                              343

controversy it is unnecessary now to enter. It has already
lost whatever interest it may have had for the general
reader. The foregoing outline of a very lengthy corres-

pondence seemed expedient, however, because it throws
into relief two characteristics of Spencer his morbid

sensitiveness to insinuations against the purity of his
motives, and the undue weight he attached to charges of
intellectual inconsistency. To these two points all his
letters in the correspondence are addressed. As for the

aspersion on his moral character, it is easy for an out-
sider to say that he might have treated it with silent

contempt, but few persons, when their character is attacked,

can adopt an attitude of callous indifference.

                       (iii.)

The earliest notice of Dr. Weismann to be found in

the correspondence is in a letter to Mr. Howard Collins

(26 February, 1890), in which reference is made to an
                                    A    fewwoudldays"         this
article in Nature  (6  February).                       after  well             he
wrote to Nature    (6  March) that   it                 be as                   to

recall the belief of one whose judgment was not without

weight, and to give    some of the evidence on which that
belief was founded."     " Clearly the first thing to be done

by those who deny the inheritance of acquired characters

is to show that the evidence Mr. Darwin has furnished . . .
is all worthless." To this suggestion Professor Ray Lan-

kester responded    in Nature     (2c7iteMd abrcyh)Mrt.haDt abriwoliong. ists"  had
already considered     the cases                                                It is

extremely unfortunate that Mr. Spencer has not come across

the work in which this is done."

                   To F. HOWARD COLLINS.

...I have sent to Nature (3 April)                1 April, 1890.
                                         a short letter a propos
of the question of inherited effects of use and disuse, or rather
presenting a problem to those who assign "panmixia" as
an adequate cause for decline in the size of disused organs.
I have taken the case of the drooping ears of many
domesticated animals. . . . The point to insist on will be,
first, as I have pointed out, in domestic animals no selection
either natural or artificial goes on in such way as to make
344 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxn.

economy in the nutrition of an organ important for the sur-
vival of the individual, and that in fact no individuals survive
from economical distribution of nutriment such as would cause
decrease in unused organs. Then, second, beyond that, the
point to be insisted upon is that these muscles are of such
extremely small size that no economy in the nutrition of them
could affect the fate even of animals subject to the struggle
for existence and profiting by economical distribution of

nutriment.

     With the view of emphasizing this last point, I should
very much like to have it ascertained and stated what are
the weights of the muscles which move the ears in a cow.

      Against others than biologists he had to defend his

position. In an address ?s Lord Rector of Glasgow Uni-
versity in November, 1891, Mr. A. J. Balfour referred to

the theory of the inheritance of acquired characters applied

by Spencer "so persistently in every department of his

theory of man, that were it to be upset, it is scarcely too
much to say that his Ethics, his Psychology, and his
Anthropology would all tumble to the ground with it."
The expediency of replying to this and other points in

the address and the form the reply should take were dis-

cussed with Mr. Collins.

                         To F. HOWARD COLLINS.

                                                                       30 November, 1891.

     I have sent Mr. Balfour a copy of Factors of Organic Eroln-
tion. Suppose you send him a copy of your pamphlet on the
Jaw as bearing on the question of inheritance of acquired

characters.

     6 December. Do not in your specification of points to be
taken up versus Balfour do more than just give me the heads
of them so far as to show your lines of argument.

7 December. I hesitate about your article on Mr. Balfour.
Various of the points are good, though you have omitted the
two which I should myself have taken up. But it is un-
desirable to have it done unless it is done in an almost
unanswerable way, and I feel that a good deal of critical
oversight from me would be needful. This would entail more
labour than I can afford. . . . Moreover, the thing would be
almost certain to entail controversy probably Mr. Lilly would
u go for" you and eventually I might be drawn into the
         . . . The only
matter.  down a number   safe  "  way that   occurs to me is that of
setting                   of      Questions   for Mr. Balfour," which

might be the title.
1889-95]          Latter Day Controversies                          345

     12 December. The temptation to do good has to be resisted
sometimes as well as the temptation to do evil ; and I now
illustrate this truth in having resisted the temptation to reply
to Mr. Balfour. It is a strong temptation, and I should greatly
enjoy a little slashing polemic after my two years of continuous

exposition.

     22 January, 1892. Recently a member of the Athenaeum

named to me certain investigations, made by a medical man,
I think, showing that colour-blindness is more frequent among
Quakers than among other people ; and thinking over the
matter since, this recalled a vague recollection which I have
that somebody I think at Darlington had found that a bad
ear for music was more common among Quakers than among
others. Now if these two things can be proved, they alone
may serve to establish the hereditary transmission of effects
of disuse. Here is a direction in which you may work.

     Mr. Collins's pamphlet on " The Jaw as bearing on the
question of Acquired Characters," mentioned above, had

been prepared at Spencer's instigation. Before its issue

a brief abstract was sent to Nature, which took no notice

of it ; thus furnishing occasion for insinuations of bias,

which were repudiated when the pamphlet was reviewed

later (6 August, 1891). In October, 1892, Spencer again

expressed   his dissatisfaction with the conduct   of Nature,
adding :   " I shall not let the matter drop ;    and if this

burking of evidence is persisted in, I will expose the matter

be the cost what it may."

                  To J. XORMAX LOCKYER.

                                                19 November, 1892.

     I  presume   "yoeunclhoasveed,  not read   Mr. Collins's letter on " Use
        Heredity                      and that  it has been declined by your
and
referee rather than by yourself. It is an important letter giving
the results of careful inquiries, and the question on which it
bears is the most momentous with which science is at present
concerned, for it bears on our fundamental conceptions of
human nature, of human progress, and of legislation.

     For some time past it has been manifest that the conducting
of Nature has been such as to favour those who take one side

of the controversy on this question. . . .
     Curiously enough, I am about to commence on Monday

a letter setting forth a new kind of evidence bearing, as I think,
in a conclusive way upon the matter, and I was of course
346 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxn.

intending to send this letter to Nature. As things stand, how-
ever, it seems scarcely worth while to do this, and I may
probably have to diffuse it among men of science in a separate
form.

     In a subsequent letter (23 December) he examined in
detail the reasons assigned for rejecting Mr. Collins's letter,
the principal one being the insufficiency of the data brought
forward respecting the variation in the size of jaws in
certain races consequent on a variation of function. The
evidence was, in his opinion, sufficiently cogent to justify
acceptance. Meanwhile he had taken steps to deal with
the general question.

           To THE EDITOR OF THE Contemporary Review.

                                                                       21 November, 1892.

     I have in contemplation an article, the object of which will
be to raise, for more definite consideration, certain aspects of
the doctrine of Natural Selection : the purpose being to show
that Natural Selection taken alone is utterly inadequate to
account for the facts of organic evolution. Two out of the
three reasons I have already indicated, but I propose now to set
them forth more fully and as a distinct challenge to those who
think that Natural Selection alone suffices ; requiring of them
to deal with these insurmountable difficulties, as I consider
them to be. The third reason is an entirely new one, recently
arrived at.

    "The Inadequacy of Natural Selection," which appeared
in the Contemporary Review, in February and March, 1893,
was the occasion for the first interchange of letters between
him and the late Duke of Argyll, who addressed him as an

acquaintance on the strength of their having once met at,
he thought, " one of Monckton Millies' breakfasts."

                          To THE DUKE OF ARGYLL.

                                                                        8 March, 1893.
     I am much obliged by your kindly expressed letter of the
4th, and am gratified to receive indication of your partial if
not entire agreement.
     I have an agreeable remembrance of the incident to which
you refer, though my impression as to time and place is not
the same. The occasion, I believe, was a dinner at the house
of Mr. Gladstone, when he resided in Harley Street. My
recollection includes a brief interchange of remarks respecting
1889-95]  Latter Day Controversies ,  347

a geological formation on the shores of Loch Aline, where
I frequently visited friends owning the Ardtornish estate.

     . . . The essay in the Contemporary, with sundry postscripts,
I intend to republish next month for broadcast distribution
throughout England, Europe and America. May I, in one of
the postscripts, express my indebtedness to you for drawing my
attention to the case of the negroes ? . . .*

     One of the postscripts to which I have referred will be
devoted to dealing with the points on which your letter com-
ments, namely, the misapprehension current among biologists
concerning the nature of the belief in natural selection, with
the view of showing that they are proposing to overturn, by
a fallacious inference from an inference, certain results of direct

observation.
     I quite admit the multitudinous difficulties which stand in

the way of the doctrine of evolution as interpreted solely by
the two factors named, but I hesitate to allege another factor,
knowing how often it has happened that problems which
appear insoluble are readily solved when the method is
disclosed.

     The controversy was also the means of renewing an

acquaintanceship of very old standing. Seeking "a piece

of information " for use in the Weismann controversy, he

wrote to Dr. David Sharp, of the University Museum of

Zoology, Cambridge, assuming him to be the David Sharp

with whose father he had lived at 13, Loudoun Road, St.
...John's Wood, in 1857-58. " Some day when in London,
if you would call upon me,        I should be glad to renew

old memories." 2

Spencer's article set the ball rolling. Dr. Chalmers

Mitchell pointed out in Nature    (15 February, 1893) that
" in the matter of Panmixia, Mr.  Herbert Spencer has mis-

understood Weismann completely. Panmixia does not

imply selection of smaller varieties, but the cessation of the

elimination of smaller or more imperfect varieties." In the

Contemporary Review for April Mr. Romanes noted that

Spencer did not see the difference between the new doctrine

of Panmixia, or cessation of Selection, and the old doctrine

of Reversal of Selection ; both of which are causes of

degeneration. Correspondence with Mr. Romanes followed

    1 See pamphlet, p. 60. The Duke's name was omitted, he says, "lest
some ill-natured people should regard me as a snob."

     - Autobiography, ii., 30.
348 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. XXTI.

during the next few months, " but without getting any
' forercler,' " as Mr. Romanes remarked in a letter to Mr.

Thistleton Dyer in July. 1                                             " Pro-

     Meanwhile he was busy              with another        article  Contem-
fessor Weismann's Theories             " published        in the

porary for  "MaIty,is  and circulated   as  a postscript  to the previous
articles.               a keen piece        controversy,  but I wish you
                                       of

were well out of it," was Professor Tyndall's comment.

Mr. George Henslow expressed                cordial agreement ; sending
also a copy of " two chapters               in a work on which I am

engaged in which 1 endeavour to prove that the peculiarities

of plants residing in deserts, water, Alpine regions, &c., are

in all cases due to the response of the plants themselves to

their environments respectively, without the aid of Natural

Selection as far as structure is concerned." Another corre-

spondent Sir Edward Fry had arrived at the opinion that

the various ways in which mosses are reproduced furnished

a strong argument against Professor Weismann. A copy

of his work on British Mosses was, therefore, sent to Spencer.

                             To SIR EDWARD FRY.
                                                                           7 June, 1893.

     I am much obliged to you for your note and the accom-
panying volume. The facts it contains would have been of
great use to me in writing the late articles in the Contemporary,
had I known them. To me it seems that of themselves they
suffice to dispose of Weismann's hypothesis, the wide accept-
ance of which I think discreditable to the biological world.

     The hypothesis of a u germ-plasm," as distinguished from
the general protoplasm, seems to me a pure fiction, utterly
superfluous, and utterly discountenanced by the facts ; and the
phenomena presented by the mosses are among those showing
in the clearest way that there is but one plasm capable of
assuming the form' of the organism to which it belongs when
placed in fit conditions : one of the fit conditions being absence
of any considerable tissue-differentiation.

     On the side of Professor Weismann, Mr. Romanes again
came forward (Contemporary for July), the proof being sent
to Spencer, who wrote a note to be printed with the
article. Professor Marcus Hartog, in the same number,

                       J.Life of G. Romanes, p. 307.
1889-95]        Latter Day Controversies                       349

wrote against Weismannism, also criticizing Mr. Wallace.
As to the views of the latter, Spencer had already been in
communication with Professor Hartog.

                            To MARCUS HARTOG.

                                                                                  5 May, 1893.

 ...Have you looked at Mr. Wallace's article in the Fortnightly ?

I am astonished at the nonsense he is writing. He seems
to be incapable of understanding the point at issue. On
page 660 especially, he actually concedes the whole matter,
apparently not perceiving that he does so. This ought at any
rate to be effectually pointed out, since committing suicide as
he thus does, there is one antagonist less to deal with.

     Professor Weismann himself now intervened in an
article entitled " The All-Sufficiency of Natural Selection,"
the first part of which replying to Spencer appeared in

the Contemporary Review in September, and the second in
October. Professor Hartog proposed to reply to Weismann's
Part I. in case Spencer did not.

                              To MARCUS HARTOG.

                                                   BRIGHTON, 22 September, 1893.
     Thanks for your proposal to take up Weismann in case

I do not. I have, however, decided to respond to him myself,
and am even now engaged in writing an answer 1. . . .

     It will, I think, be very well, however, if you will keep the
matter in mind and be prepared with a paper setting forth the
argument which you briefly indicate. . . .

    P.S. If you write such a letter, pray do not admit that

Weismann has shown that the specializations of social insects
can be interpreted only as due to natural selection. I am about
to contend that they can be otherwise interpreted.

Another contribution from Spencer's pen appeared in

t"heWeCisomntaenmnpisomrary     for  October,  1894,  under the heading
                             Once    More."

                             FROM DAVID SHARP.

                                                      28 October, 1894.
                                                                 of " Weis-
     Thank you  very         much for the       separate copy  on last page
mannism Once    More         " : containing    the postscript
about Hertwig, which I had not seen before, and which I think

very good and interesting.

          Contemporary Review for December, 1893.
350 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxn.

     The view that evolutionists will ultimately take as to the
essential nature of reproduction is one exactly the antithesis
of Weismann's, viz., that the best form of germ is that which
accurately carries the processes of the parents, it being under-
stood that the processes of the parents form part of a con-
sensus with the processes of previous parents. This last
qualification is very important, and explains why I have long
felt it to be impossible to expect any considerable inheritance of

mutilations.

     I hope you need not now trouble yourself more about
Weismann. I feel no doubt that his theory will before long
pass into discredit. It had this of value that it endeavoured
to substitute a genuine conception of that awful X we call

heredity.

     In my opinion what is most wanted to secure the symmetry
and add to the permanent value of your work is not the upset-
ting of Weismann, but that chapter on the relations of the
inorganic and organic which in your original prospectus you
pointed out ought to be written.

     Professor Burdon Sanderson deprecated " the acceptance
by outsiders of the scheme of doctrine of Professor Weis-

mann as a safe basis for speculation, and still more, the
way in which it is now dogmatically taught to students of

what is called Elementary Biology.

                        To J. S. BURDON SANDERSON.

                                             ST. LEONARDS, 10 November, 1894.

     I was greatly pleased to have your sympathetic letter con-
cerning the Weismann business. Coming from one whose
judgment has so high a value as yours the general agreement
implied was a source of much satisfaction to me.

     I have been alike astonished and exasperated at the manner
in which biologists at large have received Weismann's theory.
Considering that it is so entirely speculative and cannot assign,
so far as I know, a single fact which serves for proof, it is

amazing that men who, perhaps more than most men of science,
rely upon facts, should have so widely accepted it.

     Of  Sir Edward Fry's letter in Nature   "(ai cqNuoirveedmb"era,s
         discussing the meaning of the word
1894),

used in the Weismann controversy, Spencer writes :

                           To SIR EDWARD FRY.

                                                                         3 November, 1894.

     I am glad you have taken up the matter and have brought
your long-exercised judicial faculty to bear upon the definitions
1889-95]                                 Latter Day Controversies                            351

of the words used, and have brought to light the confusion
                   which the matter is
of  thought in     introduction of the                      apthrparseese"ntacinqvuoirlveedd.characters  "
     Until the
        these few years, I had
within  functionally-produced                            myself always   used the expres-
sion "                                                  modifications,"  and all through

77/6' Principles of Psychology, published in pre- Darwinian days,
the phenomena of evolution are ascribed (far too exclusively,
as I now admit) to the inheritance of functionally-produced
modifications. This phrase                                  think, the better one, as
I                                                                        regret now that

                                                              is,

                                                 I
                                                                I
excluding various misapprehensions, and

    ever, for brevity's sake, adopted the recent phrase.

       The controversy was now practically ended as far as

Spencer was concerned. Professor Weismann's article

"Heredity Once More" in the Contemporary Review for

September, 1895, called forth letter from Spencer under
                                                        a

the same title in                        which he               with Professor Weis-
mann that further                        controversy            be futile " especially
    if                                                  agreed
                                      1
                                                        would

so new hypotheses are to be perpetually introduced to

make good the shortcomings of the old. willingly yield,
                                                                         1I
                                                                                  I
                                                                                                     a;
therefore, to his suggestion to ask no more questions

and do this the more willingly, because have failed to
    It I

          is
                            2

                                   a
get any answer to the crucial question which asked at

the outset."

          not for                        layman to express an opinion on

question that divides biologists into distinct schools, more

especially when he takes into account the weighty names

on each side of the controversy. At the same time, bearing

in mind how frequently the charge of a priori reasoning

has been brought against Spencer, one cannot help remark-

ing on the hypothetical nature of Professor Weismann's

premises and the a priori character of his arguments.

The demands he makes on one's credulity are, to say

the least, not less numerous or less astounding than

those made by the opposite school. Professor Marcus

    1  See Contemporary Review, October, 1895.

    - Spencer's articles were afterwards reprinted in the new edition of
the Principles of Biology,                     pp. 602-691, Appendix B.      fIanvoAurppoefnd"ixThe
                                         is i.,                                                          C

(pp. 692-695)   a  summary                       given  of  the evidence in  oHn is"   last
Inheritance                                                 Modifications."           Some
               of  functionally-wrought                                                      public
utterance on the subject to be found in a short paper                                        Light
                                         is

on Use-Inheritance," contained in Facts and Comments (pp. 92-6),

published in 1902.
352 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxil.

Hartog's description of Professor Weismann's work on
Amphimixis, may be applied to the theory as a whole. It
is "a magnified castle built by the a priori method on
a foundation of ' facts ' carefully selected, and for the most
part ill-known, misinterpreted, or incomplete." One's con-
fidence in professor Weismann's doctrine is apt to be
shaken by the concessions he has to make : such, for
example, as the admission that the germ-cells do not lead
" a charmed life" uninfluenced by the body-cells, and the
admission that the body-cells may carry with them some

germ-plasm. "The New Biology" may, in course of

time, help us to adjust the claims of the rival theories.
                                     353

              CHAPTER XXIII.

COMPLETING THE SYNTHETIC PHILOSOPHY.

                       (June, 1893 November, 1896.)

NEVER had a change from London been more welcome

than in 1893. His domestic troubles had utterly unhinged
him. His feelings found expression in a letter to Miss
Youmans from Pewsey. "My relations with the Misses

will hereafter, I fear, be not altogether pleasant. The fact

that, after all my kindnesses to them, their return is to

calumniate me to their friends and to some of my friends

can hardly be forgotten, and I don't know exactly how
we shall get on with that fact in my consciousness." To

put the evil day off he went to Brighton for September.

There was no lack of friends ever ready to extend

hospitality ;  but   "  as  he said   in reply to an invitation       from
Lord Dysart              I  cannot   keep well for long even          when
                  :

I am master of my own circumstances, and I am sure to

go wrong in health when I attempt to conform my daily

regime to the routine of any other house than my own."

Presentation copies of books afforded opportunities of

enforcing one or other of his favourite doctrines.

                            To HORACE SEAL.

                                                     11 July, 1893.

I am much obliged by the copy of your little book on T/ie
Nature
          of Stale Interference.  I  say  that  you  have  I  think,  in  the
    Will   you excuse me if
first place, identified two things which are not at all to be

identified social co-operation and State-interference ; and that
you have in the second place not distinguished between the
purposes for which State-interference is peremptorily demanded
and those for which it is not demanded. Your illustrations

of the advantages derived from what you rightly consider

analogous to State-interference in the animal kingdom are

23
 354 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxm.

 cases in which the organism has to operate on the environ-
 ment, and for this purpose unquestionably State-interference
 that is to say, centralization of the powers of the aggregate
 is essential ; but it is not called for, nor advantageous, for
 carrying on the processes of internal sustentation. . . . While
 societies, as chiefly in the past and partly in the present, carry
 on predatory activities upon other societies, subordination of
 the individual to the State is requisite, and is and must be the
 more extreme in proportion as the predatory activities are
 dominant ; but in proportion as societies become peaceful, and
 the lives they carry on become lives of internal activities only,
 the need decreases, and there remains only the need for that
 subordination of the individual to the State which is requisite
for maintaining orderly or non-aggressive cooperation. Your
 tacit assumption that Individualism means the solitary life of
the individual is an entire misapprehension. It may and does
go along with an elaborate form of mutual dependence.

                       To MRS. ARTHUR STANNARD.

                                                                                       6 October, 1893.

      I thank you for the copy of your novel, The Soul of a
 Bishop. . . .

     I judge of the purpose of the book from the last few
paragraphs. You will scarcely expect me to coincide with
your view.

     The current creed represents the power which is mani-
fested to us in the universe as having created myriads of
men of whom, according to the Christian theory, immensely

the greater number must be condemned to eternal torment.

If one man were to condemn another man to eternal torment,

even for the most grievous offence, and calmly looked on at his
sufferings, I should regard him with horror. I do not under-
stand why my feeling must be changed when in place of a
man a God is conceived, and in place of a single sufferer
myriads of sufferers rather would it be intensified.

     Popular nostrums for the cure of social disorders he
invariably tested by appeal to experience and by reference
to underlying principles. There was no lack of sympathy
with the unhappy lot of certain sections of society ; though
his merciless exposure of visionary, sentimental remedies
often caused him to be considered unsympathetic. He felt
bound to give expression to his deep-rooted conviction that
many of the proposed measures of relief were worthless or
at best mere palliatives, and that some of them would
intensify rather than diminish the mischief they were in-
1893-9^] Completing the Synthetic Philosophy 355

tended to remove. Again and again did he urge the Hon.
Auberon Herbert to direct his energies to the exposure of
the fallacious reasonings and useless remedies everywhere
met with in connexion with social and political matters.

                      TO THE HON. AUBEROX HERBERT.

                                                                         7 November, 1893.

    You might write an article on " Experience does not make
Fools wise." For this you may take as text the demand for
a a living wage," as though that had not been tried and
abandoned centuries ago. And again, under the same head
the proposal to provide work for the unemployed, as though
that had not been tried in workhouses from Elizabeth's time
downwards and been a miserable failure.

     January, 1894. At present nobody is content with the
natural rewards of his own efforts, but everybody wants to
be better off at somebody else's expense. This is an ethical
crime and will bring on the society throughout which it
prevails the punishment of criminality.

                    To MOXCURE D. COXWAY.

                                             12 December, 1893.

    I have just been reading in the Open Court your first article
...on Liberty, and have read it with great satisfaction.            As

you rightly point out, people do not at all understand the

principles of liberty.
    But here there
                        think, shortcoming in your conception.
    of
                  iIs,

                             of

                                          a
                                         is
They have no true idea  liberty because they have no true
sentiment liberty. No theory of much service in the matter
without a character responding to the theory without feeling
                                                                 a

                                                                                    is a
                                                                                             if
which prompts the assertion of individual freedom and indig-

nant against aggressions upon that freedom, whether against
self or others. Men care nothing about principle, even

they understand  it,    unless they have emotions responding to it.

When adequately strong the appropriate emotion prompts
resistance to interference with individual action, whether by
an individual tyrant or by a tyrant majority but at present,
                                                                 ;

in the absence of the proper emotion, there exists almost

everywhere the miserable superstition that the majority has
    right to dictate to the individual about everything whatever.
.a  . . To dissipate the superstition that the majority has un-

limited powers        of more importance than anything else in
                 is
the field of politics.                                        a

    His hopes of completing his work were about this time

by no means bright in fact he told friend that its com-
356 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxm.

pletion was scarcely probable. In such a frame of mind

there could   be but one answer to   RMorm. aRnoems anLeecst'suree.nqu"iryIf
whether he   would give next year's

I were to attempt it I should probably die on the platform."

The same was his feeling when invited by the members

of   the Oxford University  "  Junior Scientific    Club  to  deliver
the   next " Robert Boyle       Lecture. His      doubts  as  to the

probability of finishing his work were strengthened by the

shock he received on hearing of the death of Professor

Tyndall. He himself was to winter at St. Leonards and

had hoped to persuade the Tyndalls to come there.

                                To MRS. TYXDALL.

                                                                                  6 December, 1893.

     You will scarcely need to be told how shocked I was when
yesterday morning there came the sad news of Dr. Tyndall's

death. . . .

    The consciousness that he had passed so weary and suffer-
ing a life for a long time past must be in some sort a set off
to the grief coming upon you, and that the ending has been
so sudden and painless is a further set off.

     In respect of his last hours he was in fact to be envied.
Had I finished my task I should be very willing to promptly
pass away in the same quiet manner.

     But I well know that in these cases words of consolation
are of no avail and only lapse of time .can bring mitigation.

     A volume by Mr. Andrew Lang, dealing amongst other
things with the Ghost Theory, had been announced.

                              To ANDREW LAXG.

                                                                         21 February, 1894.

     In their original forms Tylor's view and mine are distinctly
antithetical. With him animism is original and the ghost-theory
derived. . . . Tylor has insensibly abandoned his original view.
It may, however, I believe, be shown that by more than one
there had previously been suggested the belief that the Ghost-
Theory is the root of religious ideas.

     26 February. By way of criticism upon your belief, or half-
belief, Let me suggest to you that the great difficulty is in getting
true evidence. People are so careless in their observations
and so careless in their statements, and so careless in their
repetitions ! . . .

     I continually meet with paragraphs about myself, many
1893-96] Completing the Synthetic Philosophy 357

absurd and many utterly baseless. An American interviewer
described me as always wearing white gaiters. I never wore
any in my life. It was said that I invariably carry an umbrella,
and a bulky one. For many years past I have not walked at
all, and when I did walk I never carried an umbrella unless
it was raining or obviously certain to rain. It is said that
I take my meals alone and dislike dining with others. Abso-
lutely the reverse is the fact. I dislike to take a meal alone.
I was asked by a lady whether it was true that I lived chiefly
on bread and coffee ; a statement absolutely baseless. I was
asked whether I changed my occupation every ten minutes
a statement which had a certain slight basis, but an extremely
small one. I saw a paragraph stating that on one occasion
I could not manage my sister's children. The only sister I ever
had died when two years old. . . . And so on, and so on,
almost without end. . . .

     Now with such multitudinous recklessnesses of statement
as these, and even mistakes of identity, how is it possible to
put any confidence in testimonies with regard to so-called

supernatural occurrences ? . . .
     Most people cannot state truly what they see, and most

people cannot re-state truly what they have been told. Hence
I hold it far more likely that in all these cases the testimony
is bad than that the alleged phenomenon is true.

     P.S. Then there is the element of coincidence an all-
important element. Out of the tens of thousands of incidents
occurring to individuals and the myriads occurring to the
members of a community it is certain that some should have
a strange congruity. These congruities are more frequent than
we suppose. I can give you from my own life several most
remarkable ones.

     28 February. A question of statistics, yes. A dreams he
meets B ; does not do so, and thinks nothing about it. Ten
thousand such cases occur nightly. After a million cases have
occurred some A does meet some B ; thinks it supernatural
and talks about it. Thus the non-coincidences leave no marks ;

the coincidences survive.

                     To JOHN FISKE.

                                     27 March, 1894.

Thanks for the sympathetic expressions of your dedication,
             Memoir  of E. L. Yoninans'] which took me by surprise.
I[ofhatdhe  thought  nothing about a dedication, but, if I had, I

would have suggested that the sister should have been the

honoured person, since her great devotion to him through so
many years gave her a high claim. [The book] will doubtless
do good service in bringing that posthumous honour to Youmans
358 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxm.

which he so amply deserves. So self-sacrilicing a servant of
humanity is rarely met with.

The " disasters and perplexities of things " had during

the spring induced a condition of great depression. His
friends and acquaintances were " disappearing at the rate

of twenty a year."    He was   ubnyha"ptphye  in his home life.   His
despondency was     increased                 atrocious weather
                                                                 " he

experienced in Wiltshire. His intention had been that this,

his sixth visit to Pewsey, should last till the end of Sep-

tember, but by the end of June he was tired of it. The
patience of his host and hostess was also showing symptoms

of giving way, owing to his fastidiousness. He returned to

town in the second week of July, and on the recommenda-
tion of Dr. Buzzard went to Cliftonville, near Margate, for

August and part of September.

                            To G. J. HOLYOAKE.

                                                      MARGATE, 10 September, 1894.

     Profoundly averse as I am to State-socialism and State-
meddling, I feel bound to aid all efforts to encourage the only
type of industrial organization which holds out any hope of
better things. I am not very sanguine of the results, for it
seems to me that only a small proportion of men are good
enough for industrial relations of a high type. But be this
as it may, everything should be done to facilitate the experi-
ment, and I therefore send you a subscription of two guineas.

     17 September. I dislike to be affichc, as the French say, and
I have of late years suffered much from being thus placarded.

     A while ago I attended what I supposed to be a private
meeting in the interests of the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Children, and a fe\v words which I was induced

to say, were, to my great dismay, reported in the next day's

papers, so that I had to explain that my remarks were made
without much consideration. 1

     At the instigation of some Jewish periodical I expressed

my detestation of the persecutions in Russia, thoughtlessly
supposing that my letter would have no further circulation.
But it got quoted in certain papers, not only here but on the
Continent, and even in Russia, where, as Mr. Caine reported,

it produced a howl a result which I had never intended
     Last year I was led to send a contribution to the Anti-

Gambling League, feeling compelled to do so because of the

                    1 Supra, chap, xx., p. 303.
1893-96] Completing the Synthetic Philosophy 359

strong condemnation    of gambling I had uttered  in The   Study of
Sociology, and though  I marked my accompanying    note "  private,"
its substance, or what professed erroneously to be its substance,
was published in the evening papers. 1
Then just recently, as you must have seen, my protest
against the misrepresentation of my views about land-ownership
has entangled me in a controversy in the Daily Chronicle*
. . . These various occurrences are liable to produce the
impression that I want to pose as a philanthropist or as an
aider in philanthropic undertakings. I shrink from any such
interpretation.
You must therefore abide by my endorsement u private,"
and keep my note unpublished ; and you must please also not
signalize the fact that I have contributed to the fund.

    His German translator, Dr. Vetter, in whose intelligence

and judgment Spencer had always placed the utmost
reliance, had died early in 1893. Dr. Vetters's place was
taken in the following year by Professor Victor Carus.
One of his French translators, M. Auguste Burdeau, was

also removed by death. This meant the loss of a friend for

whose character and ability Spencer had a genuine regard.

                       To MADAME BURDEAU.

                                        21 December, 1894.

There are condolences as a matter of form and there are

condolences as expressions of real feeling. Those which I
...now offer you belong to the latter class. ' For these many years
past I have admired M. Burdeau.         At the time when he
was preparing his version of my Essays I was struck by his
conscientious care to ensure accuracy. . . . The traits of

character then disclosed on small occasions have since been

disclosed on large occasions, and joined with his intelligence
and wide culture made him so valuable a servant of the State.
I regret in common with his countrymen that his character and
capacity, through which still greater things might have been
expected, should have been prematurely lost to France.

     He   had    n"evReercogrodt  over his disappointment  at the futile
result   of the                   of Legislation " he and  Mr. Donis-

thorpe had planned and begun in 1892. Circumstances
at the end of 1894 seemed favourable for another attempt
being made to rouse public interest.

1 Supra, chap, xxi., p. 327.      2 Supra, chap, xxii., p. 340.
360 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxm.

               To WORDSWORTH DONISTHORPE.

                                        11 November, 1894.

You have no doubt seen in the papers notices of Mr.
Ilbert's scheme for a comparative record of Laws of the
English speaking peoples. This is so nearly allied to the
scheme of a record of English laws from the beginning that
I think it is desirable to make public the prior movement. . . .
I think of writing a letter to the Times describing what you
and I had done, and sending with it a sample of the im-
...pressions taken of the tables as drawn up, by way of showing
what had been accomplished.             I mean to embody in it
some sarcastic criticisms upon the wealthy classes as to their
utter lack of all initiative and lack of all conception of any but

the most commonplace philanthropic undertakings.

18 November. You are quite welcome to mention the fact
you refer to, namely, that a long time ago I enunciated the
doctrine   that the State should   Jaudsmtiicneist"ersettcinivgil
tously.   There is a passage in u                                   justice gratui-
                                                                   forth this doc-

trine and defending it.

23 November. If the State became responsible for the
administration of civil justice in the manner implied in the
passage from the Principles of Ethics, I take it that an entire
change of method would be a concomitant. The State would
now not stand in the position of umpire, but would become
an active investigator. On complaint being made to the local

authority that some aggression had been committed or some
non-fulfilment of an agreement, the first step might be that of

sending an appointed functionary an officer of first instance
to interview jointly the two disputants, and hear from them
their respective statements, and explain to them the la\v
affecting the matter. In nine cases out of ten the presence

or absence of a wrong is clear enough, and the opinion of
this official on the matter would suffice to effect a settlement.
In cases where one of the disputants did not yield, or in
cases where the official himself was in doubt, there would

then be a reference to a higher legal authority, before whom,
with the aid of this officer of first instance, the case would
be set forth and who would himself cross-examine the parties
in respect of the transaction.
                                   If,  after his decision, there was

still resistance on the part of one, any further appeal might
be at the cost, or not the whole cost then the part cost,
               if

                      :
of the persisting suitor the distinction made being that where

there was an evident breach of an obvious law the cost should

be borne by the recalcitrant person, but not so where the
interpretation of the law in the particular case might fairly be
               matter of doubt,
considered  a
1893-96] Completing the Synthetic Philosophy 361

     I should add that along with any such change of adminis-
tration it is implied that there should be such change in
the law itself as to make it comprehensible and definite. A
clearly and rationally organized body of law, comprehensible
by the ordinary citizen, would itself exclude the greater pro-
portion of aggressions, and when breaches of laws, clearly
understood, were in some such way as that described promptly
dealt with, without cost to the injured person, there would
be very few such breaches.

     25 November. Please say nothing about my views on the
administration of civil justice.

13 January, 1895. Thanks for the copy of your new
...volume [a second series                                                   I regret
                                                                     philosophical
that you have used the
                       owf oirnddiv"idanuaarlcishtistes"saoysr ]. u
anarchist." It has at present, and quite naturally, so bad
an odour that use of it raises a preliminary prejudice against
any conclusions which appear to be congruous writh anarchist
doctrines. You cannot get people to distinguish. Moreover,
the word seems to me broader than is appropriate to your
meaning, since you recognize the need for some government.
I wish you would deal with Mr. Sidney Webb. I see by
this week's Spectator, which partly reprobates and partly

commends him, that he has in the Contemporary been setting
forth the beneficial achievements of the County Council,
which you and I regard as mischievous rather than beneficial.
If you could contribute to the Contemporary an article
showing the socialistic character of these achievements, and
pointing out that the Spectator and others who approve are
simply furthering the socialism which they condemn in the
abstract, you would do good service.

A year before this, on the occasion of the bomb outrage

by Vaillant in Paris,  he thanked     M.    JevainewsSchasmbidetinfgor"  an
article in the Figaro  representing    his
                                                                         of

the absolutely opposite kind" to anarchic.

                      To HENRY CHARLTOX BASTIAN.

                                                          MARGATE, 17 August, 1894.

     There has been for some time a conspiracy afoot among
retail booksellers and publishers, which is intended to have
the effect of abolishing the present system of making discounts
of 2d. and 3d. in the shilling. . . .

    A generation ago I was one of those who took part in
the agitation which abolished the then existing system of
J 62 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxm.

retailer's discounts of 33 per cent., which were maintained by
allowing no retailer to make an abatement and regarding as
black sheep those who did, and preventing them from getting
books if possible.

     This system they are now quietly endeavouring to re-
establish. I want to get full particulars of the proceedings
before taking action.

He wished Dr. Bastian to ascertain from one of the

large  retail   booksellers how the     new system      of  "  marking
books  as "    net " affected discount    booksellers.         Do not

mention my name. If I take public action in the matter

it will be anonymously, for I do not want to set the

trade against me." A communication in the form of a

letter " From a Correspondent " appeared on 24 October.
In this letter he gave an account of the negociations in 1852
which ended in abolishing the coercive regulation according

to which a retail bookseller who sold books at lower rates of

profit than those prescribed was prevented from obtaining

supplies of books.

All know what has since happened, or rather all know
what has been the usages for the last generation, though they
may not know how they arose. The practice of allowing
a discount of 2d. in the Is. from the advertised price of a

book was quickly established, and after a time the discount

was by many, and eventually by most, retailers increased to 3d.
in the Is., or 25 per cent. That benefit has resulted cannot
well be questioned. . . . Increased sales consequent on lower

prices have thus made possible much of the best literature
which would else have been impossible. These advantages

are now being furtively destroyed.      Some  three  "  years   ago, in
certain advertisements of books, the    word  u net      was   inserted

after the price, implying that no discount would be allowed. . . .
Already coercive measures, like those which a generation ago
                              growing     u"p.priceBsoohkasveellerresceiwvehdo
maintained this system, are   from " net
have allowed small discounts
warnings that, if they do so again, supplies of books will be

denied to them. . . . Doubtless we shall hear a defence of

these resuscitated regulations. Some will say that retailers
should be properly paid for their work, and that underselling
by one another does them great mischief. Others will say that
publishers benefit by giving retailers a sufficient stimulus to
push their books. The authors, too, will be said to gain by
the increased sales resulting. It will even possibly be urged
that the public are benefited by having books brought under
their notice better than they would otherwise be. To these
1893-96] Completing the Synthetic Philosophy 363

and other pleas there is a brief, but sufficient, reply. They were
urged a generation ago, and a generation ago they were ex-
amined and rejected. 1

     Professor Henry Drummond had for years acknow-
ledged himself an admiring student of Spencer's writings.
It was with no little surprise, therefore, said Professor
Drummond's biographer, that his friends read Mrs. Lynn
Linton's article in the Fortnightly Review for Septem-
ber, 1894, in which she "made a furious onslaught
on what she alleged to be Drummond's 'pseudo-science
and plagiarisms/ overlooking, as her critics pointed out,
his acknowledgments of indebtedness to Herbert Spencer
and other writers on the very points with reference to
which she made her serious charges." The prime mover
of Mrs. Lynn Linton's article was Spencer himself. 2

To MRS. LYXN LIXTOX.

                      6 June, 1894/

     Professor Drummond. . . in his recently published work,
The Ascent of Man, with the airs of a discoverer and with a
tone of supreme authority sets out to instruct me and other
evolutionists respecting the factor of social evolution which we

...have ignored altruism.
             I do not, of course, like to undertake it [a reply]
myself, but I should be very glad if somebody would undertake
it for me, and on looking round for a proxy I thought of you.
With your vigorous style and picturesque way of presenting
things, you would do it in an interesting and effective way, at
the same time that you would be able to illustrate and enforce
the doctrine itself.

    3 September. When I returned you the MS. I thought your
article vigorous and effective, and now that I have read it in
print I see that it is still more vigorous and effective. . . .

    The fact that the Standard devotes an article to you is
sufficiently significant, and I join in the applause given by the
writer to your denunciation, not of Professor Drummond only,
but of the public taste which swallows with greediness these

semi-scientinc sentimentalities.

     He was not so successful in inducing any of his scien-
tific friends to reply to Lord Salisbury's address as President

of the British Association at Oxford.

1 Various Fragments, pp. 156-180.

2 Life of Mrs. Lynn Lin ton, pp. 310-12.
364 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxur.

                         To ALFRED R. WALLACE.

                                                                            10 August, 1894.

    If we differ on some points we agree on many, and one of
the points on which we doubtless agree is the absurdity of Lord

Salisbury's representation of the process of Natural Selection,
based upon the improbability of two varying individuals meet-
ing. His nonsensical representation of the theory ought to be
exposed, for it will mislead very many people. I see it is

adopted by the Pall Mall.
     I have been myself strongly prompted to take the matter

up, but it is evidently your business to do that. Pray write
a letter to the Times explaining that selection, or survival of the
fittest, does not necessarily take place in the way he describes.
You might set out by showing that whereas he begins by com-
paring himself to a volunteer colonel reviewing a regiment
of regulars he very quickly changes his attitude and becomes
a colonel of regulars reviewing volunteers, making fun of their
bunglings. He deserves a severe castigation. There are other
points on which his views should be rectified, but this is the
essential point.

                      To T. H. HUXLEY.

                          LONDON, 1 October, 1894.

Is nobody going to give a dressing to Lord Salisbury ?
Sometime ago I wrote to Wallace wanting him to take up in
the Times the question of Natural Selection in respect of which
the argument used is so absurd, but Wallace pleaded that he
was busy with other things. Your mouth
                                               suppose, closed
a

                  it
                    it iIs,

                                                             is,

                                                    I
                                                         I
                                                                 I
by your position as seconder of the vote of thanks at the
Association meeting.
The theologically-minded have been hurrahing and throw-
ing up their caps, and    think, needful that they should

be sobered little by being shown the fallacy, and indeed the
folly, of his lordship's criticisms. Old and feeble as am feel
strongly prompted to do   the more so as there are various

things of importance to be said incidentally.

                      FROM T. H. HUXLEY.

                                               October, 1894.
I
    I
       if

                              ;

                            if
                                   I

                                                  it a

                                               I
                                                  I

                                                                                           3

                                                                          II
am writing something for the half jubilee of Nature in
November next in which think shall rub in Lord Salis-
bury's surrender in essentials little more strongly than could
do at Oxford but, as to his criticisms of Natural Selection and
so on, really doubt they are worth powder and shot.
But you think otherwise go ahead by all means
                                                                                            earned
the prize of virtue at Oxford, though shall not get it. You
may imagine how tempting  was to me to tear the thing to
1893-96] Completing the Synthetic Philosophy 365

pieces. But that was hardly the line for a seconder, and I
restrained myself to such damage as I could do, by warmly
praising all the concessions which that dexterous debater had

left in shadow. 1

     Having failed to get any one to write, Spencer would
probably have allowed the matter to rest, but for the
circumstance that a translation of the address had been

honoured by being presented to the French Academy.

Hence his article on "Lord Salisbury on Evolution." This

was generally regarded in France as victorious on all points,
so M. Leon Say told Dr. Gazelles when they met at the
funeral of M. Floquet. Thanks to the interposition of
M. du Mesnil and M. Milne Edwards, it was laid on the

table of the Academic des Sciences by Professor Perrier.

           To MRS. TYNDALL.

           LONDON, 23 October, 1894.

...I am about to make arrangements for going again to St.
Leonards,  I want you to do me the great favour of coming
to stay with me there as long as you can. I am thinking of
asking as one to visit me Miss Cross, sister of Mr. John Cross
who married George Eliot a very amiable woman and intelli-
gent, who wrote one charming story and ought to write others.
Then, as another guest, I shall probably have Miss Gingell,
a Gloucestershire lady, who compiled a volume of aphorisms
from my writings, when unknown to me. Another I may
probably ask is Miss Edith Hughes, daughter of an enthusiastic
adherent of mine in Birmingham. . . . Last winter one of the
....two ladies who formed the circle was Miss Charlotte Shickle
          who did the housekeeping for me. . . . She is a good
soul good in a very unusual degree, I never met any one who,
when a kind thing was to be done, rushed at it in the same way.

Soon after settling at St. Leonards he gave formal notice

determining the agreement between the Misses        and

himself ; the reason assigned being the heavy expense en-

tailed by being so much away from London. But as his

plans were not yet matured he thought it might be con-

venient for both parties if the actual termination were
postponed, subject to a month's notice. " The remem-

brance of times spent with you and your sisters during

           1 Life of Professor Huxley, ii., 375-9.
366 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxm.

1889, '90, '91, and '92 will always be pleasant to me." His

plans were certainly not matured at the date of giving

notice; for it was not till 1897 that the Avanue Road
establishment was broken up.

               To COUNT GOBLET D'ALVIELLA.

                                           7 January, 1895.

     Thanks for your letter and for the accompanying little
volume Vie et (Euvre de Entile de Laveleye. . . . You comment
upon the conflict between the opinions of M. de Laveleye and
my own. The fact was, M. de Laveleye never knew what my
views were. He, in common with many others, laid hold of
some one portion and formed his conclusions from it without
due recognition of correlative portions. Because I hold that
the struggle for existence and the survival of the fittest should
be allowed to go on in Society, subject to those restraints which
are involved by preventing each man from interfering with the

sphere of action of another, and should not be mitigated by
governmental agency, he, along with many others, ran away
...with the

mitigated
         notion   that    I[mreygabrdelievfoluwnatsarythbaet]netfhiceeyncsehoausldadenqout abtee
         at all.

to achieve all those mitigations that are proper and needful.
M. de Laveleye did not see that that which he agreed with me

in denouncing and fearing the universal supremacy of the

State is the outcome of that policy of benevolent interference
which it appears he advocated.

                          To J. A. SKILTON.

                                                          10 January, 1895.

as would seem, you think that have got scheme
If,                                        I                 a
        is it                                 I
for the future of society in my head you are altogether mis-
taken. Your conception of applied sociology
                                                       is a  bringing to
bear of evolutionary principles on social organization with
a view to its improvement                  one which do not entertain.
The sole thing about which feel confidentII
                                     I is        . is  that no higher
types of social organization can grow until international
antagonisms and, consequently, wars cease. . . You have faith
in teaching, which
                          have not you believe men are going
to be changed in their conduct by being shown what line of
                          believe no such thing. Men are not
conduct        rational.

rational beings, as commonly supposed.     A     man         is is   bundle
                                                                  a
of instincts, feelings, sentiments, which severally seek their
gratification, and those which are in power get hold of the
                          to their own ends, and exclude all other
reason and use    it

sentiments and feelings from power. . . . There                    no hope
for the future save in the slow modification of human nature

under social discipline. Not teaching, but action the requisite
1893-96] Completing the Synthetic Philosophy 367

cause. To have to lead generation after generation a life

that is honest and sympathetic is the one indispensable thing.
No adequate change of character can be produced in a year,

or in a generation, or in a century. All which teaching can
do all which may, perhaps, be done by a wider diffusion of
principles of sociology, is the checking of retrograde action.
The analogy supplied by an individual life yields the true
conception. You cannot in any considerable degree change
the course of individual growth and organization in any con-
siderable degree antedate the stages of development. But you
can, in considerable degree, by knowledge put a check upon
those courses of conduct which lead to pathological states and

accompanying degradations.
     Any one who wishes to aid social advance should devote

all his energies to showing, that no fundamental and permanent
progress in social life can be made while warlike activities and
the social organization appropriate to them continue.

2 February. A true theory of social progress is not a cause
of movement but is simply oil to the movement serves simply
to remove friction. The force producing the movement is the

aggregate of men's instincts and sentiments, and these are not

to be changed by a theory.
    You think that I have got some message and that utterance
of it might stave off impending evils. I have but one message
   Be honest : regard the equitable claims of others while
maintaining your own. The disregard of all save personal

interests is the underlying cause of your present state and of
impending disasters. As I said years ago a propos of American
                                                                           admiration of
a" ffsamirasr, t  "a    fatal   trait  in your society     is the          that a people
among                 men,             believe I -said or  simmaprltie"d  men will come
                               and I
                  whom there is admiration for u
to grief. If you think that a healthier ideal can be established
in American society by teaching, I entirely disagree. Under
your present condition men could not be got to listen. Even
if they listened, they would not be convinced. And even if
they were convinced, their conduct would not be appreciably
affected. When men are under the influence of pronounced

feelings no amount of reason changes their behaviour.

                               To J. W. CROSS.

                                                                    18 January, 1895.
    While she was with me your sister named the opinion you
had expressed that a crash is impending in the United States
   a financial crash, I gathered from her statement. I too am
expecting a crash, but have been rather contemplating a social
than a financial crash. Probably either will be a factor in
producing the other. That a dreadful catastrophe is coming
368 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxm.

I do not feel the slightest doubt. The Americans are now
beginning to reap the far-reaching and widely-diffused conse-
quences of their admiration for smart prigs, and the general

mercantile laxity.

                             To MRS. TYNDALL.

                                                                                31 May, 1895.
     Fundamentally regarded, the condition of things is this.
Men within these few generations have become emancipated
from the restraints which a strong social organization had over
them. They are rapidly proving themselves unfit for the con-
dition of liberty, and they are busy unconsciously organizing

for themselves a tyranny which will put them under as strong

a restraint as, or a stronger restraint than, before.

    22 June. We are coming to a maladministration of justice
like that in Ireland.

     Having been informed that the Italian socialist, Pro-
fessor Ferri, had adduced his authority in support of
socialism, he wrote (June 12, 1895) an indignant protest,
which was published in La Riforma. In a letter (19 June)
to the editor of La Riforma, Signor Ferri pointed out that

Spencer was under a misapprehension.

    No socialist has ever dreamt to include among the sup-
porters of Socialism the greatest living philosopher. . . . But
it is necessary to distinguish between the personal opinions of
H. Spencer and the logical outcome of the positive theory of
universal evolution, which he has developed better than any
other writer, without however obtaining an official patent
against the unrestricted expansion which is daily given to
that theory by the work of other thinkers. In the preface
to my book I stated that Spencer and Darwin had stopped
midway, and consequently without reaching the logical con-
sequences of their doctrine.

A copy of his article on " Mr. Balfour's Dialetics,"

published in the June number of the Fortnightly Review,
was put aside with a view to its appearance in a permanent

form in the next edition of the essays.    But in a note
written on this copy in November, 1897,  he says that " in

consequence of Mr. Balfour's noble behaviour in actively

aiding the portrait presentation scheme, I have decided

that I cannot with good taste republish it."
1893-96] Completing the Synthetic Philosophy 369

     The Order " Pour le Merite " was offered him, but
declined in a communication to the German Ambassador

(i June, 1895).

Mr. Herbert Spencer presents his compliments to His

Excellency the German Ambassador, and begs to acknowledge
the receipt of his letter of May 31, notifying the fact that
                                        conferred on Mr. Spencer the Royal
tOhredeGrer"maPnourEmlepeMroerriteha"s  for arts and sciences. Naturally the

fact cannot but be a source of satisfaction to him.

On various occasions during the last hve and twenty years
Mr. Spencer has declined the honours that have been con-
ferred on him ; and to accept the honour now conferred would
not only be inconsistent with his convictions, but would imply

a slight upon the learned bodies whose honours he has on
past occasions declined. Though the fountain of honour is
not in this case of the same nature as in previous cases, yet
the reasons which prompted his course remain the same.
What those reasons are may be seen from certain passages
in a letter addressed to the French Academy in May, 1883,
after Mr. Spencer had been elected a Foreign Associate of

that body. . . >                        undervaluing the distinction of inclu-
     Mr.  Spencer, without              " Pour le Merite," feels compelled to
sion in   the Royal Order

pursue the course he has hitherto pursued and, therefore, to

decline the accorded honour.

     About a week later he was informed by Professor
Theodor Gomperz of Vienna that the Imperial Vienna
Academy had elected him a foreign honorary member.
Having seen in the papers that Spencer had been declining
as a matter of principle all honours, Professor Gomperz,
who had taken the initiative in the election, hoped that
the rumour was untrue.

     But if it should be true (he wrote), I must request you,
kindly to write a line as soon as you find time for it. For
our act of election is only a preliminary ; the nomination
belongs to the prerogative of His Majesty the Emperor.
And if you should be firmly resolved to refuse such a nomina-
tion, our election would (I suppose) not be submitted for
sanction to His Majesty. You would then be spared the un-

welcome necessity of meeting an act of respectful sympathy
by a flat refusal, and we would be spared the still more
unpleasant necessity of exposing our sovereign to such a refusal.

                          1 Supra, chap, xvii., p. 233.
24
370 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxm.

     Spencer was sorry to be unable to contradict the rumour

as to his attitude towards honours, the reasons given being
those with which the reader is now familiar. A similar

course was followed when he was offered the membership

of the Royal Lombardian Institute of Sciences and Letters,
and the degree of Doctor of the University of Buda Pesth.

        FROM MRS. TYXDALL.

                            5 June, 1895.

Talking of your early life reminds me that I met yesterday
a Miss  , who mentioned that she had heard her father

tell of a time in your engineering days when you were in
the habit of eating tallow candles, the inference being drawn
that your brain thereby became specially nourished. How such
a ridiculous story came to be invented I do not know.

                             To MRS. TYNDALL.

                                                                          6 June, 1895.

     Thank you very much for the amazing story you send
me. I could fill a small volume with absurd stories about
myself, of some of which I can trace the origin, but others
without any imaginable origin. This most absurd one which
you send is one of the last class. It is the more remarkable
as coming from one who might reasonably be supposed to
know.

     In place of Pewsey the summer resort for 1895 was
Westerham, Kent, whither he went about the middle of
June. He had not been there many days when a severe
blow fell upon him by the death of Professor Huxley.

                              To MRS. HUXLEY.

                                                 WESTERHAM, 2 July, 1895.
     If recovery had become hopeless, longer continuance of
life under such suffering as has of late been borne was

scarcely to be desired, and this thought may be entertained

as in part a consolation in your bereavement. A further con-
solation, and one which will be of long duration, is derivable
from the contemplation of his life as having been model

exemplary in the capacities of husband, father, citizen and
teacher.

    The death of Lord Pembroke, whose character and
aims he estimated very highly, removed one more from
the ever narrowing circle of his friends and acquaintances.
1893-96] Completing the Synthetic Philosophy 371

Hitherto Lady Pembroke's correspondence with Spencer
had for the most part related to political or scientific
questions of general interest ; but after Lord Pembroke's
death her letters took an entirely new turn : the nature
of life and mind, the unimportance of matter, telepathy,
a future existence, being among the subjects dilated upon.
Occasionally, in discussing these subjects, she felt she was
getting beyond her depth, as when she said : " I trust
I am not writing presumptuous nonsense to the greatest
philosopher of the day."

          TO THE COUXTESS OF PEMBROKE.

                                                      26 June, 1895.

    On the great questions you raise I should like to comment
at some length had I the energy to spare. The hope that
continually groping, though in the dark, may eventually dis-
cover the clue, is one I can scarcely entertain, for the reason
...that human intelligence appears to me incapable of framing
any conception of the required kind.   It seems to me that

our best course is to submit to the limitations imposed by the
nature of our minds, and to live as contentedly as we may in
ignorance of that which lies behind things as we know them.

.My own feeling respecting the ultimate mystery is such that
of late years I cannot even try to think of infinite space with-
out some feeling of terror, so that I habitually shun the thought.

       5 July. The general question is too wide for discussion in
a letter, but I may suggest the consideration of a fact which
perhaps will throw doubt upon your assumption that life is
a thing instead of being a process. It is well known among
naturalists that certain minute forms of aquatic life, as, for
example, the Rotifers, may be dried up until they resemble
particles of dust, and that, though then dead in so far as
absence of all vital manifestations is concerned, they, when
duly supplied again with water, perhaps after years, absorb
       and recommence their lives.    we understand life to be
a it,                                If
      a
                                            if
                                                  is
       process this comprehensible, but we understand life to
          it
              is

                  is
be thing  not comprehensible.

       However, without pushing the argument further may
end up by saying that the whole thing                 at bottom an in-           I
                                                                                          it
soluble mystery,      aTnednnysoqnuitecallsuntdheerst"anLdargeyrouhropaet.t"itudeI in
entertaining what

       5  November. Respecting your question concerning u con-

jectures," have ceased to form any, since the more the
          I
                                  thought about the more mysterious
                              is
mystery of things
372 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxm.

becomes. As I said at the close of an essay written many
years ago, u the Ultimate Power is no more representable in
terms of human consciousness than human consciousness is

representable in terms of a plant's functions." And, of course,
what is here said respecting the Ultimate Power holds equally
respecting the Ultimate Process.

     The simple fact, that the endeavour to answer the question
whether space is infinite or not infinite leads us to alternative
impossibilities of thought, suffices to show that no conjectures
wre can frame with regard to the reality of things can have
any approach to the truth.

    19 January, 1896. I remember hearing Professor Owen say
that it is given only to the man of science to know what a fact
    and my own experience endorses the saying. The mass
is,of mankind are so uncritical that they do not distinguish
between valid and invalid evidence. When in past years
   A                                      I
                                             is I

                                                            a

                                                                       I
looked into alleged non-natural phenomena found the ideas
of what constitutes proof so loose that ceased to pay any

attention to the matter. . . .

        special combination of qualities  required for an
examiner in such cases he must have both scientific know-
               a
ledge and definite ideas of causation, and also knowledge
                      :
of human nature and quick perception of human motives and
conduct. Most are deficient in one or other qualification.
Being myself deficient in the last, would not trust my own'
                                   I aI

                                                                           is
conclusions were to take part in seance or in kindred testing
           I

of alleged abnormal manifestations.     am so wanting in quick

observation of people's doings, feelings, intentions, etc., that
   should be easily deluded. But my own experience
I                                                                                         that

remarkable coincidences occur with such comparative frequency
as to be quite capable of accounting for the occasional instances

of things apparently supernatural.      have myself sometimes
                                a

                                         I
                                                is I

                                                            it
had promptings to believe in supernatural agency, caused by

the repeated experiences of coincidences in various ways in-
jurious. . . . And simple induction would think almost have
led me to believe in supernatural agency were not that with
me the conviction of natural causation
                                          so strong that
impossible to think away from it.                                                         I
                                                                                               it

                                                                                                    is
    But should have been more apt to accept a supernatural
        I

explanation had not been for the many experiences have
           it

...had of meaningless coincidences, showing how frequent and
how astonishing they are.       If  meaningless coincidences are

thus frequent, there must occasionally occur coincidences that
have meaning coincidences of which the elements are related

in some significant way, and when they do occur they attract
attention from their resemblance and suggest supernatural
        It

             is
                                                                                       a
cause.     this consideration which has joined in making

me reject the supernatural interpretation above referred to.
1893-96] Completing the Synthetic Philosophy 373

21 January. If I find myself obliged to hold that there

are supernatural manifestations and a supernatural interference
with the order of things, then my personal experience would
force me to the conclusion that the power underlying things
...is diabolical.
     Were I well enough,  I should be pleased were you
to honour me with a call on your way to Eastbourne, but
...unhappily listening tries me nearly as much as talking.       I

may however be considerably better by the time referred to
and in that case should gladly listen to the experiences you
name.

     This -closes the correspondence so far as regards the

supreme question discussed, with exception of a letter from
Lady Pembroke in May, in which she says (probably
with reference to the visit above referred to) : " After our
last conversation I think you will believe that I have fallen

away from the school of precise thinking."
     While these lines are being written, the death of Lady

Pembroke on August 31, 1906, is announced. Another
of Spencer's friends the Dowager Countess of Portsmouth

   died on the same day. Lady Portsmouth had for years

been unwearied in her kindnesses and unwavering in her
admiration of his character. WThen sending him a copy

of the reprinted essays, etc., of her brother, the late Earl
of Carnarvon, she wrote : " It is possible you differed on
some subjects. It is possible yoii agreed on many. It

is quite certain that you stood together in a noble love of

justice and truth."
     In July, 1895, a proposal that he should sit for his

portrait to Mr. McLure Hamilton was declined for the

reasons given some seven years before when he was asked
to sit to Millais. 1 Later in the year, in connexion with
Mr. Watts' gift to the National Portrait Gallery, a suggestion

was made by Mr. Collins in the Times (December n) to

have a portrait painted by Watts and added to the national

collection.

       To F. HOWARD COLLINS.

                          12 December, 1895.
...I was startled by your letter in yesterday's Times.
                                                            It

is vigorously written, and its point artistically brought out.

       1 Supra, chap, xix., p. 283.
374 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxm.

It will greatly astonish most people by the claim it makes,
which, I doubt not, they will think absurd.

     I fear, however, that in respect of the result desired it
is unlikely to succeed. Probably this gift made by Mr. Watts,
if it does not mark the end of his career as an artist, marks
the end of his career as a portrait-painter, and I should think
that at his age he will probably object to undertake anything

more.

    A notice was also sent by               Spencer        to    the     Times,
                                            the letter         was
(December 14) to the effect that                            "         written

and published entirely without his knowledge, and that he

must not in any way be held responsible for the suggestion

contained in it." On the lyth he informed Mr. Collins :

"Please take no further step in the matter of the portrait.

I am no admirer of Watts and should have no desire to sit

to him, even if he assented. As to any other plan that may

be proposed, I know of none to which I should not raise

objection." Mr. Watts was far from assenting. In a letter

to Mr. Collins he expressed his feeling that any attempt he

might make would be likely to end in failure.

    A request from Mr. A. Mordan, of Reigate, that he

would sit to Mr. Wells for a portrait to be presented to

the National Portrait Gallery was also declined.
     While at Westerham he sent a letter to Nature on " The

Nomenclature of Colours," quoting a passage from the un-

published Autobiography 309).
it it
To F. HOWARD COLLINS.
           is
              a (i.                                        ^September, 1895.
                                     is
                                                   is

                                                    it is
                                                                 is

                                                                                    a
My objection to your proposed chart of colours                        that,

in the first place, does not make the composition of each
colour obvious, which
                                            primary desideratum, and in the
second place, that does n.ot give in juxtaposition with each
colour its assigned name. Hence the memory not in either
way aided to the same extent, and further there
                                                                      no such
                                                            of u boxing the com-
apdavssan"taogfecoalosurtsh,atnagmiveelny,  by the method  of naming each colour
                                            that the mode

and its relative position can be easily recalled when has been

forgotten, since the method of naming easily recovered.

     Reference to the above led him to bring to light
" Classification of Artistic Characters of Paintings," which
1 893*96 Completing tke Synthetic Philosophy 375

he had drawn up probaoly during or about the time of his
visit to Italy in 1868, and of which he says : "These were
drawn up at a time when I hoped I should one day deal
with ^Esthetic Progress, and my intention was to go
through Home and Foreign Picture Galleries to classify
pictures in respect of these traits." The classification em-
braced four heads : Subject, Form, Colour, Shade. 1

     His loyalty to the memory of Dr. Youmans was shown
by his letter to the Times in September, pointing out how
unceasing had been his friend's efforts in the United
States to uphold the interests of authors. The strength of
this feeling was shown some two months later when
invited by the London editor of McChtre's Magazine to
contribute to that journal.

     I have, in virtue mainly of my indebtedness to my old
friend for all he did on my behalf in the United States, felt
bound to make the Popular Science Monthly my sole medium
for publication of articles in the United States, and the obliga-
tion, which was peremptory during his life, remains strong after
his death, since his brother occupies his place and has con-

tinued his good offices on my behalf.

     Copyright between the mother country and Canada had,
about this time, assumed an acute form, in consequence of
the Dominion Parliament requiring that to secure copyright
a book must have been printed in Canada. Professor
Goldwin Smith contended for the excision of this clause.
In favour of its retention Sir Charles Tupper quoted a
document signed many years before by fifty British
Authors, of whom Spencer was one. Thereupon Spencer

 1R        religious                 C.P   colour primary
RW         religious worship        C.Pu   colour pure
           mythology                 C.St  colour strong
  M                                        colour secondary
   L       loyal                      C.S  colour tertiary
    P      political                 C.T   colour mixed
                                    C.M
        S  symmetrical              C.Im   colour impure

   US      unsymmetrical            N.S    no shade
   A.S     attitudes symmetrical    H.S    half shade
A.US       attitudes unsymmetrical  F.S
  A. A     attitudes alike                 full shade
 A.D       attitudes distorted      S.S
                                    S.U    strong shade
                                    S.C    shading uniform
                                           shading contrasted
376 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxm.

wrote to the Times (22 October) explaining the general
purport of that memorial (which he had himself drawn up),
pointing out that the inferences Sir Charles Tupper had

drawn from it were not warrantable, and quoting Professor
Goldwin Smith's opinion that the clause requiring a book
to be printed in Canada must be " excised." This word
"excised" appeared in the cablegram to Canada as "exer-
cised." Professor Goldwin Smith naturally protested against
this inversion of his meaning, which to Spencer looked like
a deliberate falsification in Canadian interests. By way of

counteracting any such purpose, assuming it to exist, he
wrote to the Colonial Secretary. While not doubting that

the Canadians had a keen eye to their own interests, Mr.
Chamberlain did not think they differed from other people.
Mr. Hall Caine had, he hoped, helped to make an arrange-
ment possible which would be satisfactory to English

authors.

     Once more, and for the last time, he had to defend his

independence of Comte.

                To LESTER F. WARD.

                                                     19 September, 1895.
     I have just received a copy of your essay on "The Place
of Sociology among the Sciences," and on glancing through it

am startled by some of its statements.

    (1) You have not, I presume, read my essay on "The

Genesis of Science," otherwise you would scarcely say that
Comte's classification represents the genetic or serial order

of the sciences. . . .
     (2) But I
ing             am much more amazed     by your statement respect-
      Comte's   system that " Spencer  himself, notwithstanding all

his efforts to overthrow                                                in the arrange-
                if

                                  it,
                                                                    it
ment of                   actually adopted                                    Now in
the first
           the sciences  in his Synthetic            esPshayilosoonph"yT."he  Genesis
           place, you    will look at my
of Science," you will see that the first two great groups of
sciences the Abstract, containing logic and mathematics, the
Abstract- Concrete, containing mechanics, physics, and chemistry
have no place whatever in the Synthetic Philosophy. . . .

     Setting aside the fact that, as                 have pointed out, the
       is

                                       if
                                                  I
sciences which deal with the forms of phenomena and those
which deal with their factors make no appearance whatever
in the order of sciences forming the Synthetic Philosophy,
there      the fact that even the sciences as involved in the

Synthetic Philosophy are compared with the system of Comte,
1893-96] Completing the Synthetic Philosophy 377

they are shown to be wholly incongruous with it. If you will
turn to the original preface of First. Principles, in which an
outline of the Synthetic Philosophy is set forth, you will see
there, between the programme of First Principles and the pro-

gramme of the Biology a note in italics pointing out that in
logical order there should come an application of First Prin-
ciples to inorganic nature, and that the part of it dealing with
inorganic nature is omitted simply because the scheme, even as
it stood, was too extensive. Two volumes were thus omitted

a volume on astronomy and a volume on geology. Had it
been possible to write these, in addition to those undertaken,
the series would have run astronomy, geology, biology, psycho-
logy, sociology, ethics. Now in this series those marked in
italics do not appear in the Comtian classification at all.
            But          in the third place, I draw your
      (3)          now,                                      attention to
           III.  in my   u Classification of the Sciences."    There you
Table
will see that the order of the works already existing in the
Synthetic Philosophy, and still better the order in which
they would have stood had the thing been complete, cor-
responds exactly with the order shown in that table, and is
an order which evolves necessarily from the mode of organiza-
tion there insisted upon, and corresponds also to the order of
appearance in time, if you set out with nebular condensation
and end with social phenomena. The order of the Synthetic
Philosophy does not correspond with that of Comte, and it
does correspond with the order shown in my own u Classifica-
tion of the Sciences."

     On the appearance in the Review of Reviews for Novem-
ber of Mr. Grant Allen's "Character Sketch," Spencer was
again impressed with the weight of his obligations to that
singularly able and generous champion.

                                To GRANT ALLEN.

                                                                       18 Xovember, 1895.

    You have, as always before, proved yourself a most out-

spoken and efficient advocate perhaps, in a sense, almost too
efficient, since in some minds the large claims you make on

my behalf may cause some reactive feeling. I say this partly
because, even in myself, the reading of your exposition last
night at the Athemeum oddly enough seemed to produce a kind
of vague scepticism, as though it could hardly all be true. So
you may judge how largely you have made me loom in the

eyes of the general reader.

     It strikes me that in one respect you have been crediting
me at your own cost, for in the passage concerning the relation
between growth and reproduction I recognize less of my own
378 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxm.

views than of the views you lately set forth, in which there
was very truly expressed the truth that the ultimate mystery
centres more in the ability of the individual organism to per-
petually reproduce its own structure than in its ability to
reproduce like structures.

     The earliest of all his friends Mr. George Holme
passed away in the beginning of 1896.

To CHARLES HOLME.

                                           8 February, 1896.

    The last days of a long life when it has passed into decrepi-
tude with all its miseries are not to be desired, and when there

has been reached that limit after which nothing can be done

and little save pain can be experienced, the cessation of life
is scarcely to be regretted. You and your mother and sisters
have this thought as a set-off against the feeling which must
result from the breaking of the last link with your father.

     You have, too, the permanent consolation of remembering
that he led what may be characterized as a model life. . . .
With energy and great natural intelligence he joined, in a
...degree far beyond that which is usual, the root of all high
character sympathy.  It was to the existence in him

of this predominant sympathy that I owe my life.

To HECTOR MACPHERSOX.

                                           20 February, 1896.

...On returning from Brighton last night, after an absence of
three months, I found your little book on Carlyle.  I see that

it is written in a manner which might well be imitated by
biographers not with unqualified eulogy, but with qualified
eulogy. It is curious that to one sympathizing with me as you
do should have fallen the task of writing the life of one so
utterly antagonistic so antagonistic that on one occasion I saw
that he called me an u immeasurable ass."

     28 February. I have read the greater part of your little
book on Carlyle with interest. It is a very good combination
of narrative, exposition, characterization, and criticism, and this
union of elements gives in brief space a definite idea of the

man.

     You have been quite fair to him more than fair, I think.
You have not brought into prominence his less amiable traits.
His extreme arrogance should, I think, have been more dis-
tinctly indicated, and also the fact that his sympathy with
despotic modes of dealing with men was the outcome of his
own despotic nature.
1893-96] Completing the Synthetic Philosophy 379

     20 March. Thank you for your proposal [to write a book
on Spencer]. I should of course very well like to see such a
book written, and have no doubt that you would do it well.

     I think, however, that in inferring from the success of your
little book on Carlyle that a book of the kind you name would
succeed, you are over sanguine. Biography and philosophy in
respect of popular appreciation stand at the opposite poles.
To the average mind the one yields much pleasure with no
effort, the other yields no pleasure with much effort.

     Spencer's dissatisfaction with the decimal system was
of long standing. 1 But occasion did not arise for taking
the question up till January, 1895, when he wrote a long

letter to Lord Kelvin, who had made a public pronounce-
ment in favour of the metric system. After an interval of

a little over a year he wrote four letters against the metric
system, which appeared in the Times (4, 7, 9, 25 April, 1896)
and were afterwards sent in pamphlet form to members of
the British House of Commons and of the United States

Congress.

                              FROM Miss YOUMANS.

                                     MOUNT VERNON, 20 February, 1896.

    You are Hearing the end of your peerless labour. What
superhuman courage and persistence you have showrn ! You
ought to be very proud of yourself. If Edward could only be
here in this hour of fulfilment ! . . . How well I recall his

tender solicitude about you, when in 1865 there was fear that
you would not be able to go on with your undertaking. To
                                            how you would bear it
s"oImtehiqnukesittiownouolfd  mine   as to     But no one except                                      he answered
                               kill  him."                                                            your parents

could have been more interested in your success than Edward
was. And sad to say, at his death your prospects in this regard

were at the worst.
I send you some newspaper slips about the movement here
toward arbitration. . . . May I publish what you wrote to
Edward when you were trying to start the Anti-Aggression

League ?

     The reply must have been in the affirmative, for in the
New York Evening Post of 26 March, the correspondence

was published, along with a brief sketch of the origin and
work of the Anti-Aggression League, and concluding with

          Autobiography,             p. 216, and Appendix E., 531.
                                     i.,
                                                                                                  p.
380 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxm.

Spencer's letter read at the meeting in favour of Anglo-
American Arbitration, held in the Queen's Hall, 3 March,
I896. 1

     At length the end of the long path he had marked out
for himself to travel \vas reached. 2 The occasion is thus

described by his Secretary, Mr. Troughton :

to    Mr. Spencer was   osef v"enIntyd-usisxtriayleaIrnsstoiftuatigoensw,"hewnithhe   dictated
     me the last words                                                               the com-

pletion of which the Synthetic Philosophy was finished to be
precise it was on the 13 August, 1896. Rising slowly from his
seat in the study at 64, Avenue Road, his face beaming with

joy, he extended his hand across the table, and we shook hands
                                            u I have finished the task  I have lived
on   t"hewaasusaplilcihouessaeidv,enatn. d                              The elation
for                                         then resumed his seat.

was only momentary and his features quickly resumed their

customary composure.

    1 Times, Daily Chronicle,               etc.,  of 4  March,  1896.  Also Various

Fragments, p. 128.
     - Supra, chap, ix., p. 100.
                  CHAPTER XXIV.

                          CONGRATULATIONS.

                        (November, 1896 January, 1901.)

     THE publication of the concluding volume of the
Synthetic Philosophy was the signal for an outburst of

sympathetic appreciation such as falls to the lot of few
men. Not from his own country alone, but from many
lands; not from adherents only, but from those who did
not accept the doctrine of evolution, came expressions of
the highest admiration. It was not to his transcendent

intellectual po\ver merely that homage was paid. To his
moral character to the high and indomitable purpose that

had sustained him throughout these years, enabling him,
in face of difficulties that seemed almost insurmountable,
ever to keep sight of the goal to this was offered a
tribute as unstinted in its cordiality as it was catholic in
its source. Generous testimony was borne to the value
of his contribution to the treasure house of thought, but
even more generous was the meed of praise called forth
by what he had done to purify the aims and strengthen
the moral fibre of mankind.

      Gratified though he was by these tributes of esteem,
he shrank from anything that might have the appearance
of a bid for notoriety. He would not allow himself to be

interviewed. To the editor of one of the London papers
he wrote : " I am at present quite sufficiently affiche, and
to take any steps which would have the appearance of
intentionally making myself more conspicuous would be
repugnant to me. Especially, talk concerning myself and
my work, which I should hesitate at all times to enter upon,
would at the present time be undesirable." Again, when
Mr. Balfour and Mr. Morley visited him together early in
382 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxiv.

December, though he made no attempt to conceal the

pleasure the visit had given him, he requested the members

of his household not to speak about                                              because he did not
   it

                                   a

                                            it

                                                                a
                                                              a it,
wish to get into the papers.

Not disheartened by the failure of his suggestion some

months before to get portrait of Spencer for the National

Gallery, Mr. Collins renewed in letter to the Times of

17 November, with the result that                                                committee was at

once formed consisting of Sir Joseph D. Hooker (Chair-
man), the Duke of Argyll, Mr. Arthur Jame*s Balfour, Dr.
Charlton Bastian, Mr. Leonard Courtney, Mr. Francis

Galton, Professor Ray Lankester, Mr. John Morley, Sir
Frederick Pollock, Mr. Leslie Stephen, Professor James
Sully, and Mr. Howard Collins (Secretary).

        To F. HOWARD COLLINS.

        I                                                                        December, 1896.
                                     I

                                                                          2
Hitherto have said nothing concerning the proposal made
in the Times, chiefly because believed that there would be
but little response. But Mr. Hughes tells me that you are
cooperating with Professor Sully in getting together
                                                                                    com-
                                                                                 a
                                                                                         a

                                                                                                        a
mittee, but does not say to what end. Professor Sully was,
as understood ten days ago, taking steps with view to
I

congratulatory address, and am now in doubt whether the
        I I .* is

                           a

                              II
                                           I
efforts you are kindly making in conjunction with him are in
pursuance of that end or in pursuance of the end you suggested.

If this last the purpose, ought think to let you know
what happened when kindred proposal was made some eight

years ago. . .                              on the impression                    I  have
     My delay in writing, consequent
                                            in the taking of bootless
named, may fear have resulted

trouble, but hope otherwise.

a    Without waiting till his scruples had been completely
     a
overcome, the Committee drew up and obtained signatures
to letter of congratulation, which was presented in little
over month after the day on which his concluding

volume appeared.

                       FROM SIR JOSEPH DALTOX HOOKER.
                                                                                16 December, 1896.

         am deputed to transmit to you the enclosed, and obey
with unqualified satisfaction.
I

                                                  5

                                                                             p.
        Supra, chap, xix., 283.
1 8 96 - 1 90 1 ]     Congratulations                       383

                         To HERBERT SPENCER, ESQ.

                                                        LONDON, 16 December, 1896.
DEAR SIR :

     We, the undersigned, offer you our cordial congratulations
upon the completion of your "System of Synthetic Philosophy."

     Not all of us agreeing in equal measure with its conclusions,
we are all at one in our estimate of the great intellectual powers
it exhibits and of the immense effect it has produced in the
history of thought ; nor are we less impressed by the high
moral qualities which have enabled you to concentrate those
powers for so many years upon a purpose worthy of them,
and, in spite of all obstacles, to carry out so vast a design.

     To the many who, like us, have learned to honour the man
while profiting by his writings, it would be a satisfaction to
possess an authentic personal likeness of the author. It has
therefore occurred to us that the occasion might be appro-
priately marked by requesting you to permit us to employ some
eminent artist to take your portrait with a view to its being
deposited in one of our national collections for the benefit
of ourselves and of those who come after us.

     We hope that your health may be benefited by the leisure
which you have earned so well, and that you may long continue
to enjoy the consciousness of having completed your work.

W. DE W. ABNEY, R.E., C.B., D.C.L., F.R.S., President of the

       Physical Society.

ROBERT ADAMSON, M.A., LL.D., Professor of Logic, Glasgow

University.
GRANT ALLEN, B.A.

ALEXANDER BAIN, M.A., LL.D., Emeritus Professor of Logic,

Aberdeen University.
SIR GEORGES. BADEN-POWELL, K.C.M.G., M.A., M.P.
                                            LL.D., F.R.S., M.P.
RIGHT HON.  ARTHUR   JAMES  BALFOUR, P.C.,  Lowndean Professor
SIR ROBERT  STAWELL  BALL,  LL.D., F.R.S.,

of Astronomy, Cambridge University.
H. CHARLTON BASTIAN, M.A., M.D., F.R.S.,' Professor of
       Medicine, University College, London.
FRANK E. BEDDARD, M.A., F.R.S., Prosector to the Zoological

Society.
JOHN BEDDOE, M.D., F.R.S.
SIR WALTER BESANT, M.A.
E. W. BRABROOK, President, Anthropological Institute.
BERNARD BOSANQUET, M.A.
C. V. BOYS, F.R.S., Assistant Professor of Physics, R.C.S.
T. LADDER BRUNTON, M.D., D.Sc., F.R.S.

EDWARD CLODD.

F. HOWARD COLLINS.
SIR J. CRICHTON-BROWNE, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S,
Wr . H. DALLINGER, LL.D., D.Sc., F.R.S.
384 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxiv.

FRANCIS DARWIX, M.A., M.B., F.R.S.
GEORGE H. DARWIX, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S., Plumian Professor of

       Astronomy and Experimental Physics, Cambridge Uni-

       versity.

W. E. DARWIX, F.G.S.
JAMES DOXALDSOX, M.A., LL.D., Principal, St. Andrew's Uni-

        versity.

RIGHT Hox. SIR M. E. GRANT-DUFF, P.C., G.C.S.I., F.R.S.

EARL OF DYSART.
SIR JOHX EVANS, K.C.B., D.C.L., LL.D., D.Sc., Treasurer of
the Royal Society.
Sir JOSHUA FITCH, LL.D.
                              LL.D.,       D.C.L., Sec. R.S.,  Pro-
MICHAEL FOSTER, M.A., M.D.,
fessor of Physiology, Cambridge University.
EDWARD FRAXKLAXD, M.D., D.C.L.,     LL.D.,  F.R.S.
RIGHT Hox. SIR EDWARD FRY, P.C.,    LL.D.,   D.C.L.,  F.R.S.

SIR DOUGLAS GALTOX, K.C.B., D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S.
FRAXCIS GALTOX, M.A., D.C.L., D.Sc., F.R.S.
RICHARD GARXETT, LL.D.
SIR GEORGE GROVE, C.B., D.C.L., LL.D.
ALBERT C. L. G. GUXTHER, M.A., M.D., F.R.S., President of

       the Linnaean Society.
FREDERIC HARRISOX, M.A.

JAMES  EDMUND HARTIXG.        P.C.
RIGHT
       Hox. LORD HOBHOUSE,
HEXRY HOBHOUSE, M.A., M.P.
SHADWORTH HODGSOX, late President of the Aristotelian Society.
SIR JOSEPH DALTOX HOOKER, K.C.S.I., C.B., M.D., D.C.L.,
      LL.D., F.R.S.
WILLIAM HUGGIXS, D.C.L, LL.D., F.R.S.
J. HUGHLIXGS JACKSOX, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S.
WILLIAM KXIGHT, LL.D., Professor of Moral Philosophy, St.
Andrews University.

AXDREW LAXG.

E. RAY LAXKESTER, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S., Linacre Professor of
       Anatomy, Oxford University.
SIR TREVOR LAWREXCE, President of the Royal Horticultural

       Society.

W. E. H. LECKY, M.A., LL.D., D.C.L., M.P.

J. NORMAX LOCKYER, C.B., F.R.S., Professor of Astronomical
Physics, R.C.S.
RIGHT Hox.  SIR                            D.C.L., LL.D.,      F.R.S.,
      M.P.       JOHX  LUBBOCK,     P.C.,

VERXOX LUSHIXGTOX, Q.C.
P. A. MACMAHOX, R.A., F.R.S., late President of the Mathe-

       matical Society.

JAMES MARTIXEAU, D.D., LL.D., D.C.L.
DAVID MASSOX, M.A., LL.D., Emeritus Professor of Rhetoric,

Edinburgh University.
1 8 96- 1 90 1 ]   Congratulations                           385

RAPHAEL MELDOLA, F.R.S., President of the Entomological

Society.
C. LLOYD MORGAN, Principal, University College, Bristol.

RIGHT Hox. JOHN MOKLEY, P.C., M.A., LL.D., F.R.S., M.P.

C. HUBERT H. PARRY, Principal, Royal College of Music.
GENERAL PITT-RIVERS, D.C.L., F.R.S.
EDWARD B. POULTON, M.A., F.R.S. , Professor of Zoology, Ox-
       ford University.

SIR WILLIAM O. PRIESTLEY, M.D., LL.D., M.P.
LORD REAY, G.C.S.I., G.C.I. E.
RIGHT HON. LORD RAYLEIGH, M.A., D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S.,
Professor of Natural Philosophy, Royal Institution.
DAVID G. RITCHIE, M.A., Professor of Logic, St. Andrew's

       University.                                   Regius  Pro-

SIR HENRY E. ROSCOE, LL.D., D.C.L., F.R.S.
J. S. BURDON SANDERSON, LL.D., D.C.L., F.R.S.,

       fessor of Medicine, Oxford University.
GEORGE H. SAVAGE, M.D., F.R.C.P.
E. A. SCHAFER, F.R.S., Professor of Physiology, University
College, London.
D. H. SCOTT, M.A., Ph.D., F.R.S., Honorary Keeper, Jodrell
       Laboratory, Kew.
HENRY SIDGWICK, M.A., Litt.D., D.C.L., Professor of Moral

       Philosophy, Cambridge University.
W. R. SORLEY, M.A., Professor of Moral Philosophy, Aberdeen

       University.

LESLIE STEPHEN, M.A., Litt.D., LL.D.
G. F. STOUT, M.A.
            SULLY, M.A., LL.D.
JWAM. ETS.                           C.I.E.,  M.A.,  F.R.S.
            THISELTON-DYER, C.M.G.,
JOHN VENN, D.Sc., F.R.S.
SYDNEY HOWARD VINES, M.A., D.Sc., F.R.S., Professor of
       Botany, Oxford University.
SIR WILLOUGHBY WADE, M.D., F.R.C.P.
ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE, D.C.L., F.R.S.
BEATRICE WEBB.

LADY VICTORIA WELBY.
SAMUEL WILKS, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S., President of the College

of Physicians.

                         HAWARDEN, November 30, 1896.
    MY DEAR SIR, It has long been my rule to decline joining^
in groups of signatures, nor do I think myself entitled to bear
a prominent part in the present case. But I beg that you will,
if you think proper, set me down as an approver of the request
to Mr. Spencer, whose signal abilities and, rarer still, whose

manful and self-denying character, are so justly objects of

admiration.              I remain your very faithful,

F. Howard Collins, Esq.                       W. E. GLADSTONE.

25
386 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxiv.

     No time was lost before replying to these cordial con-
gratulations.

                                 2, LEWES CRESCENT, BRIGHTON,

                                                         19 December, 1896.

MY DEAR HOOKER,                           If,

                                              a

                                                      I
                                          as may fitly be said, the value of
congratulations increases in geometrical progression with the

eminence of those offering them, may, indeed, be extremely
gratihed by the accumulation coming from men standing so
high in various spheres. And an accompanying pleasure
necessarily results from the good wishes expressed for my
health and happiness during my remaining days.
The further honour offered has caused in me some mental
conflict. Eight years ago, to the inquiry whether would sit
                                          I

                                                                            a

                                                                           I
                                                                               I

                                                                                                                                ;
for subscription portrait to be painted by Millais, replied
Ia
                           ;negatively, assigning the reasons that the raising of funds to
pay the costs of conferring marks of approbation had grown
into an abuse that the moral coercion under which contribu-

tions were in many cases obtained was repugnant to me and
that objected to have my known and unknown friends asked
to tax themselves to the required extent. These reasons sur-

vived, and, swayed by them, recently sent copy of the letter
in which they had been stated to the gentleman with whom
the proposal now made originated, thinking thereby to prevent
further trouble.                 was unaware to how large an extent the
                              I

proposal had been adopted and how distinguished were the
numerous gentlemen who had given                         their support.                                                            now
                                                         it
                                                                                     I

find myself obliged either inconsistently to waive my objection

or else rudely to slight the cordially-expressed feelings and

wishes of so many whose positions and achievements command

my great respect. Between the alternatives there seems to be

practically no choice.                    am compelled to yield to the request
                              I
made in so sympathetic manner by signatories so eminent, andaI
at the same time must express to them through you my full
sense of the honour done me.

                              am, my dear Hooker, sincerely yours,

                                                         HERBERT SPENCER.

The consent to sit for his portrait, thus reluctantly

obtained at the moment when he was impressed with
               a
                                     a

                                                        ?
                                                                                       :

                                                                                                          a
sense of the kindness of those who proposed to honour

him in so conspicuous manner, was followed by mis-
                                                         "HHisavescryuopulesthoauggahint
givings after                 few days reflection.

came to the surface on being asked
over the question of the artist "
1896-1901]            Congratulations                      387

            To SIR JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER.

                                       30 December, 1896.

Your question is simple, but the answer is not so simple.
Some three months ago, before his departure for America,
...Mr. Carnegie pressed me to sit for a portrait to be presented
by him to the Pittsburg Institution.   I willingly yielded,
and agreed to the suggestion that the portrait should be painted
by Mr. Ouless. . . .
But now comes a question. These leading artists ask
exorbitant sums for their work, and if the cost of a portrait
is to be borne by those only who have signed the address, on
each of whom the tax would then be considerable, I should
decidedly demur. In that case the only fit course would
be to commission Mr. Ouless to make a replica of the portrait
he paints for Mr. Carnegie. The cost of this would not be

excessive.

     The painting of the portrait was entrusted to Mr. (now
Sir) Hubert von Herkomer.

     Some two days before receipt of the address he had
written to Mr. Carnegie to the effect that he had stopped
the action of those who were making preparations for a
subscription portrait. He had now to explain his change

of front.

                             To ANDREW CARNEGIE.
                                                                     4 January, 1897.

     I have had to yield. A few days after I wrote to you there
came to me an address of congratulation bearing over eighty
signatures, including those of men of eminence in various
spheres, political, scientific, literary, etc., joined with a request
that I would sit for a portrait. I had not anticipated anything
so influential, and found myself in the predicament of having

either to abandon my resolution or else to slight, in a marked

and public way, numerous men whom I have every reason to
respect, and bring upon myself condemnation as ill-mannered

and perverse.

                         To F. HOWARD COLLINS.

                                                                     8 January, 1897.
     You have been victorious all along the line, as the phrase
is victorious over others and victorious over me. I did not
expect to have my flank turned in such an irresistible way.
However, though I have to recognize myself as in a manner
defeated, there is of course, a satisfaction in the defeat, along
with a small set-off the other way.
     My feeling towards my fellow-countrymen (especially as
contrasted with the Americans) has for years past not been a
very friendly one, and my antagonistic attitude has been in
388 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxiv.

part due to this feeling. Honour long delayed loses the quality
of honour. . . . However, the thing is now done and well
done ; and having been initiated and largely urged on by you,
let me offer you my hearty thanks. In you, at any rate, there
has never been any tardiness of appreciation.

     It is a pity that he dwelt so much on the tardiness of
the honour, and so little on the cordiality and unanimity
displayed in the bestowing of it. It is strange that he
did not remember how for more than a quarter of a
century he had persistently, and at times almost un-
graciously, declined every honour that had been offered
him. The warmth with which the press also supported
the step his friends had taken ought to have gone far to
remove any lingering feeling of bitterness for supposed
past neglect. Such commendable despatch had been
shown with the address that many who would have signed
it came to know of it only when the report of the presenta-
tion appeared in the newspapers. The absence of their
names was more than compensated for by the cordiality
of their private expressions of regret at having missed the
opportunity of joining in the public testimonial. As noted
in a previous chapter (xx., p. 295), the letters in which he
complains of neglect on the part of his countrymen have
to be read along with those in which he acknowledges the
sympathetic appreciation his writings had secured at home.

To THE RIGHT Hox. ARTHUR J. BALFOUR.

...From Mr. Howard Collins              3 February, 1897.

                            I learn that I am indebted

to you for much more than is implied by your signature to the
address of congratulation, etc. indebted for active aid which,
noteworthy as it would have been in one having leisure, is
much more noteworthy in one so much pressed by public
business, and noteworthy in a still higher degree as given by
one who in important matters differs in belief. And that this

aid should have been given unobtrusively, too, so divesting it

of any possible motive other than that of genuine sympathy,
renders it still more remarkable. Pray accept the thanks which

I find it imperative to offer.

     My appreciation is made the greater on considering what
I might myself have done under like conditions. A passive
assent, would, I think, have been the limit of my adhesion.
I doubt whether my generosity would have been sufficient
T 896- 1 90 1 ]  Congratulations                                                   389

to prompt active co-operation. Could I ascribe this difference
in action to difference in creed, the belief would do much
towards shaking some of my general views. But innate supe-
riority of nature I take to be the true cause.

     The first part of this letter was written in his own
hand, but the effort was too much, and the rest had to be

dictated.

                 To JAMES SULLY.

                                                   6 February, 1897.

Among the things which should have been done, but have

not been done, is the writing to you a letter expressing my
indebtedness for the efforts you have made in furthering                                 "thine
                                                                                I          to
fruecrtehnet rinmg a"ni;fesbtuattionremoefmbseyrminpgathythe  and approval.        say
                                                               steps which   you   took
initiate an address of congratulation steps taken I think in-
...dependently at the time when Mr. Collins proposed a por-
trait the word is scarcely adequate.                          I must not let the
matter end without offering you my hearty thanks for all you

have done.
As you doubtless know by experience, a writer's chief grati-
fication is in the consciousness of work satisfactorily done, but
second only to that is the manifestation of approval from the

select.

    Among the manifestations of approval from "the select"
was the offer of the degree of D.Sc., from the University
of Cambridge, and that of LL.D. from the University of
Edinburgh. Both were declined. A proposal was made
by the municipal authorities of Derby to mark the house
of his birth with a tablet, but for reasons unknown it was

not carried out. 1 As for the portrait, there were many
appointments and disappointments, so that nothing was

done till almost the end of the year.

                           To F. HOWARD COLLINS.

                                                      BRIGHTON, 6 December, 1897.

     Who is silly enough to say that I decline to sit ? I have
not left this room for these six weeks. It is hard to have
my misfortunes used as weapons. Herkomer was here three
days ago, and would have taken photographs of me sitting
in bed had the light been good. He comes again next week.

1 A marble tablet was put up by the Derby Spencer Society in 1907.
390 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxiv.

23 December. Mr. Herkomer was to have been here last

week, but wrote me that an attack of influenza was keeping him

indoors. Yesterday he came and took live photographs ; and
he comes again to-morrow to take more. He talks of making
the portrait wholly from photographs, but I cannot assent to

this ; there must be some sittings to finish from.
Who is the unfriendly friend who takes the attitude which
                                                           A wrhile ago
your  "  ldeettcelrisninsgee"mtotositimapclyco?rd.in.g  .                 you spoke of
my                                                         to promise. .  . . And then,
after all, the supposition that I alone am responsible for the

delay is an utter mistake. During a considerable part of the
late summer months when I could have sat, had circumstances
permitted, Mr. Herkomer was on the Continent, and, when
I returned to town about the middle of September, I believe
was still away, for I had no replies in answer to letters I

wrote. . . .

    Your letter reached me last night just as I was going to bed,
and the irritation it caused kept me awake a good part of the

night.

                To SIR JOSEPH DALTON HOOKER.

                                                           27 December, 1897.

Inquiries and remarks which have come round to me during
the last three months, imply that the long delay in the execu-
tion of the portrait has caused some adverse feeling : the delay
being ascribed to perversity on my part. . . .
     I dislike obligations of the kind implied by a subscription-
portrait, and if there
                        in any of those concerned,                                                       lack of
         a
                 is
                                is,

                                                                                                :

                                                                                                      a
cordiality, my dislike becomes something stronger. . . . My
                that Mr. Herkomer shall be paid by me, and
present desire

that the subscriptions shall be returned each being accom-
panied by copy of this letter.

     Sir Joseph Hooker hastened to set his mind at rest,

telling him that he was mistaken in supposing that there

was any want of cordiality among the subscribers to the
portrait. On receiving this assurance he wrote again.

                To SIR JOSEPH DALTOX HOOKER.

                                                           30 December, 1897.

Your letter received. Very many thanks for it.                                                           relieves
it
             I

                     I
                                                                              It
my fears and gladly accept your assurances, and now desire

that you should keep my letter to yourself.
Mr. Collins has said on several occasions things which,

seems, had misinterpreted.
1896-1901]  Congratulations                      . 391

     The artist was working in circumstances     of extreme
                                                  At length,
difficulty, never having had a proper sitting.
however, in February the portrait was finished.

            To SIR JOSEPH DALTOX HOOKER.

                                             2 March, 1898.

     Mr.  Collins wrote to me a few      days ago saying that the
portrait  is " splendid and admirable "  and expressing the feeling

that, as having been so largely influential in getting it done, you
ought to be congratulated ; if for no other reason than for the
reason of having acquired for the public so fine a work of art,
for he speaks of it especially as a work of art which has its

interest under that aspect irrespective of any interest it may
otherwise have. I coincide in his feeling and gladly on public
as on private grounds join in the congratulation.

  ...Oddly enough it seems likely that I shall never see it.
I must be content with seeing a photograph.

     When the Herkomer photogravure reproduction of the
portrait was sent him he wrote :

            To HUBERT* VON HERKOMER, R.A.

                                             18 April, 1898.

Of course the judgments of my friends with regard to the
portrait are to be accepted rather than any judgment of mine,
since the looking glass, inverting the two sides, does not rightly
show a man his own face, and since moreover it is impossible
for him to see his face in the position you have chosen.
There is, however, one point in the face which strikes me,
namely, the aquiline outline of the nose is somewhat too pro-
nounced perhaps not too pronounced for the position in

which the head was placed, but  too pronounced   "inberceasupseect   of
the average shape of the nose   I say u average                     the
nose is not quite the same shape when seen from the two

sides. . . .

    The secret of it is that when a little child my nose was cut
with a carving knife by a little sister. The wound did not

leave a scar, so far as appears, but the result was that on one
side the outline is more protuberant than on the other, and
this gives from certain points of view an aquiline character,
which is not manifest from other points of view.

     I wish I had remembered this fact when the photograph
was taken, for I should then have suggested an attitude giving
a straighter outline, for I do not like the aquiline outline. Of

...course it is a considerable element in the character of the face.
       If I had seen the photograph earlier I should have
suggested a slight alteration. . . . However, though it is too
3Q2 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxiv.

late before the Academy exhibition (unless yon can do it on
varnishing day) it is not otherwise too late, and I should much
like a sligRt rectification (in a double sense).

     Yon have it seems to me succeeded well in an essential
point, namely the expression. There is a far-off ga/e appro-
priate to a thinker, and it is an understanding ga/e, which of
course I consider is not inappropriate. . . . Success in this

respect is an essential success.

     One other criticism occurs to me. Unfortunately I wore
the dressing gown over a morning coat, and an impression was
thereby given of bulkiness of body. This impression, moreover,
is strengthened by the way in which the shoulder and right
arm extend very much. The total effect of this large expanse
of body and dress is somewhat to dwarf the head. To me the
impression given is that of a small-headed man. Though my
head is not at all specially large, still it is 22 inches round, and
I think a spectator would guess a smaller size.

     There, you see I have again illustrated my inveterate habit
of fault-finding. However I suppose you would prefer to have
my candid remarks rather than unmeaning applause. You may
at any rate be quite content with the opinions of my friends.

     The Times (30 April, 1898) notice of the Royal Academy
Exhibition was severe on both Mr. von Herkomer and
Spencer. Of the artist it was said : " Perhaps it is hardly

...his fault if that which ought to have been a masterpiece,
      is very much the reverse." And of the sitter : "To

get proper sittings from him was an impossibility ; neither
the wishes of illustrious admirers, nor thoughts of posthu-

mous fame, nor any similar consideration, had any effect

whatever."

              To HUBERT vox HERKOMER, R.A.

                                      30 April, 1898.
I cannot allow myself to remain under the implied stigma
which the Times 1 report of the Academy Exhibition contains,
wrhere I  "aimllusdtersiocurisbedadmasireprsra,"cteicxaplrlyessdeidsretghaorudgihng    u the wishes
of " my                                                                              they were in

so gratifying a manner and accompanied by their contributions.
...The utterly undeserved reflection upon me must be in some
way dissipated. Will you do  or must                                                                                                   should of
I
                 it

                              (5
                                                               it,

                                                                    I

                                                                                                                                    ?

                                                                         if I
course prefer that you should rectify this misapprehension by
distinctly specifying the causes and incidents, but you decline
must do myself.

Mr. von Herkomer being in Italy, Spencer himself wrote

to the Times  May) pointing out that the art critic had
PORTRAIT OF HERBERT SPENCER
BY SIR HUBERT VON HERKOMER, R.A.
1896-1901]        Congratulations       393

been misled by rumour.  " I feel obliged to make this

statement out of regard for the feelings of the many dis-

tinguished friends and others who, having expressed their

wishes in so gratifying a manner, would feel slighted did

I let them suppose that those wishes had been so little

regarded by me."

The portrait by Mr. Ouless for Mr. Carnegie had still

to be painted. First one thing prevented a beginning

being made, and then another. When the artist was

ready, Spencer was too ill to sit ; and when Spencer
was well enough, the artist had other engagements. He

was also worrying himself over the thought of what people

would say if he sat to Mr. Ouless after having been unable
to sit for Mr. von Herkomer. " Explanations could not

easily be given, and even were they given would be in-

sufficient." This difficulty disappeared in an unexpected

way. After more than twelve months of fruitless attempts

to arrange for sittings, he wrote to Mr. Ouless that the

painting must be abandoned altogether.

                     FROM WALTER W. OULESS, R.A.

                                                                                  .13 October, 1899.

     I am indeed sorry that, after all, the portrait has to be
abandoned, but, besides other circumstances you mention, I
recognize the difficulties for the sitter and the painter. The
sittings could hardly fail to be a severe strain and fatigue
for you, and, if that were so, it would be almost hopeless to
make the portrait a success. Therefore, considering all things,
I cannot but acquiesce in your view that the portrait must be
finally given up, but I do so with very deep regret.

     He wavered from time to time in his opinion of the
Herkomer portrait, being influenced greatly by the judg-
ments now favourable, now unfavourable, expressed by
his friends. Several letters passed between him and Mr.
von Herkomer about suggested alterations, but to no
purpose. Being unwilling that the portrait should go into
the National Gallery, he wrote to Mr. Sargent about a
portrait on his own account; but the terms were too high.
He then bethought him that the portrait by Mr. Burgess
would be suitable for the National Gallery, and asked Mr.
Ouless whether he could recommend an artist to make
394 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xiv.

a copy of it for presentation to his native town. On Mr.

Ouless's recommendation the work was entrusted to Mr. f.
Hanson Walker. How far Spencer's mind was even at

this late date from being settled about the Herkomer

portrait is shown by a remark in January, 1901, to Dr.

Charlton Bastian, who thought that it rather than the

Burgess  portrait, should  go to the National Portrait Gallery.
" Thank   you, too, for    your opinion respecting the Her-

komer portrait. It is probable I shall adopt but will
                                                          ]
take the opinion of some other friends."
                                                                    it,
                                                                               I

       During the last year of his life, Mrs. Meinertzhagen induced him to
allow Miss Alice Grant to paint portrait of him mainly from the photo-
graph he had taken for Mr. Sargent in 1898.
1

                                                       a
                                               395

                   CHAPTER XXV.

   REVISION OF BIOLOGY AND FIRST PRINCIPLES.

                            (October, 1895 April, 1900.)

     FOLLOWING his usual practice of looking well ahead,
he had in 1895 ordered copies of the Principles of Biology
to be interleaved and sent to young biologists, recom-
mended as being familiar with recent developments of the
science, with instructions to scrutinize the alleged facts
and to see whether the inferences drawn from them were
justified, leaving untouched the scheme of the work as
well as its general principles. By the time the last volume
of the Sociology was issued, each of the collaborators had
gone through his assigned portion.

     His interest in biological questions had been kept
smouldering since 1867 when he completed the Biology.
Now and again during these years the latent fire had burst
into flame, as in the Weismann controversy. At other
times it merely flickered. The revision for which he was
now preparing furnished opportunities for giving expression
to opinions of long standing, respecting the methods to be
followed in biological enquiries and the attitude frequently
adopted by scientific men towards them. Biologists chiefly
were in his mind when he wrote to Dr. (now Sir) William
Gowers that "the immense majority of writers in the special
divisions of science have a horror of wide views, and prefer
to limit themselves to their details and technicalities." The
largest share of adverse criticism was, however, reserved for
mathematicians.

                         To F. HOWARD COLLINS.

                                                      BRIGHTON, 3 December, 1895.

     [Lack of judgment] is a very common trait of mathema-
ticians. Their habit of mind becomes such that they are
incapable of forming rational conclusions when they have to
deal with contingent evidences. . . .
396 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxv.

     I wish you would make . . . an inquiry bearing upon the
question of the limitation of heredity by sex. It occurred to
me lately that this, for which there is so much evidence, may
be statistically tested by inquiries concerning longevity in
families. If inquiry shows that in a certain marriage the
husband belongs to a family of which the members on the
average die earlier that usual, while the wife belongs to a
family of which on the average the members have lived to
a good age or a great age, then if there is limitation of heredity
by sex, the daughters of that marriage will be long-lived and
the sons short-lived. This is an inquiry quite practicable,
and might or might not serve to verify conclusions derived
from other evidence.

     5 December. The mathematician in dealing with contingent
matters does not go wrong in reasoning from his premises, he
goes wrong in his choice of premises. He continually assumes
that these are simple when they are really complex omits
some of the factors. His habit of thought is that of dealing
with few and quite definite data, and he carries that habit of
thought into regions where the data are many and indefinite,
and proceeds to treat a few of them as though they were all,
and regards them as definite. Lord Kelvin has furnished re-
peated illustrations of this.

    9 December. I am desirous in all cases to exclude super-
fluities from my environment. Multiplication of books and
magazines and papers which I do not need continually annoys
me. As you may perhaps remember, I shut out the presence
of books by curtains, that I may be free from the sense of
complexity which they yield. [This had reference to an
interleaved copy of the Biology Mr. Collins had sent].

     It had been suggested that Mr. Darwin's house at
Down should be acquired for a biological station, where
questions relating to heredity might be rigorously tested
by experiments carried out under the supervision, as it
would seem, of a committee of the Royal Society. The
first intimation Spencer had of this was from Professor
Adam Sedgwick in December, 1896, and soon after it was
again brought to his notice by Mr. Francis Galton.

                              To FKAXCIS GALTOX.
                                                                    16 January, 1897.

    The courses suggested seem to me impolitic. Everything is

on too large a scale.

    The purchase of Darwin's house seems appropriate as a
matter of sentiment, but as a matter of business very inappro-
1 8 9 5 - 1 900 J        Revision                                       397

priate. The whole undertaking would be handicapped at the
outset by heavy expenditure to little purpose. I should be
disinclined to co-operate were any such imprudent step
taken.

     The thing should be commenced on a small scale by the
few who have already interested themselves in it say three
or four acres with some cheap wooden buildings. . . .

     Co-operation with breeders would I believe be futile. You
could never get them to fulfil the requisite conditions, and
selection would be certain to come in and vitiate the results.

     Your last question, concerning my contribution and its
applicability to the committee of the Royal Society, I do not
understand. I do not know what you mean as to any action
of the Royal Society. If it refers to the purchase of the Darwin
house I should distinctly say No.

                       To G. H. DARWIN.
                                                             27 July, 1900.
                                                                                                    I
...Respecting the establishment for biological purposes
agree with you that there is little hope of anything being

done. . . .

    I have never, however, myself approved of the project in
the form originally suggested, commencing with purchase of
the Down estate. I do not believe in big things to commence

with, . . . But the management                                       in fact, the chief difficulty
a

          If

                         a
                                                                is,
how to elect fit governing body and how to ensure that they
shall carry on their inquiries and report the results in
thoroughly unbiassed way. Nearly all the men available in               a
respect of their biological knowledge are partisans, and
there were a balanced representation of the two sides,                       it
                                                                                 is if a
very probable that the administration would come to dead-
       otherwise, the verdict would be in large measure
lock.

foregone conclusion.

Direct references to the revision of the Biology are few.

He had correspondence with Professor Marcus Hartog, on

biological questions during 1897-98. Of                              a  note by the

latter, about to appear in Natural Science, Spencer says
(May, 1898) "At present, being unfamiliar with the set of
a

                                    :

                            I

                                     It I
facts to which you refer, had some difficulty in following

the statement.         may remark, however, that there may be

marked distinction between the process of multiplication

of successive generations of cells and the sudden breaking

up of cells in spores."                    was probably this that suggested

the sending        to  Natural Science     the relevant                 passages of                 a
new chapter        in  the Biology on "    Cell-Life and                Cell-Multipli-
398 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxv.

cation," containing certain new interpretations of recent

facts,  which   he thought it well to               publish                     beforehand.
Later   in the  year he sent to Nature              a letter                   on " Stereo-

Chemistry and Vitalism," and another on "Asymmetry and

Vitalism," with reference to Professor Japp's address to the

Chemical Section of the British Association. In the second

of these letters he says that neither the physico-chemical

theory nor the theory of a vital principle explains life, the

ultimate nature of which is incomprehensible.

The congratulations on the completion of the Synthetic

Philosophy stirred up criticism, sometimes in a fair,

enquiring spirit, sometimes in a spirit hostile and captious.

During December a correspondence was carried on in the

Times. 1 Mr. Bramwell Booth having accused him of incon-

sistency, Spencer pointed out that his ideas, in common

with other things, had undergone evolution. In a letter to

Mr. Collins, Mr. Booth maintained that Spencer's funda-
mental changes of view " have been so frequent, and so

radical, and if one may say so, so violent, that they totally

differ from such gradual and natural developments as are,

as you point out, common to all processes of thought."

                To F. HOWARD COLLINS.

                                                    25 January, 1897.

Tell Mr. Booth that his contention is utterly beside the
mark. My change from Theism to Agnosticism, to \vhich I
suppose he more especially refers, took place long before the
evolutionary philosophy was commenced, and long before I
                                                    and the change had nothing what-
ever thought of writing
ever to do with the doctrine of evolution. There has been noa

change whatever in that respect since 1860, when the writing1
                                           2,
of the philosophy was commenced. . . .          8,
My change of opinion on the Land question, which the
other change on which he insists,      it,          is
                                                                 is
                                                                        a

                                                                                            is
                                                    but remotely related to

the doctrine of evolution, and even then                      change not in

principle, but only in policy.

At meeting of the Brooklyn Ethical Association,

towards the end of 1896, he was said to have been largely

influenced by the teachings of the Vedanta, through the
                                                                                  "wild
writings of Sir William Jones. This he called                                  a

                Times,                            15, 17, 18, December, 1896.
1895-19]                     Revision                                      399

idea," seeing that he did not even know the name Vedanta,

and     had never    read any of Sir William             Jones's writings.
But     " there are  always some people who             find that a man's

ideas are not his own, but somebody else's."

     When translating the last part of the Principles of
Sociology, Dr. Gazelles had encountered an unforeseen diffi-

culty. In 849 M. Hanotaux, the                    French foreign  minister,
is represented as having made a                   statement " on  the need

there was for competing in political burglaries with other

nations." Unable to take the responsibility of spreading

this throughout France, Dr.       Gazelles, who,        during    the thirty
years he had been engaged          in translating         the "   Synthetic

Philosophy," had retained Spencer's highest esteem, felt

compelled to relinquish the work, to his own deep regret

no less than to Spencer's.

                       To E. GAZELLES.

                                                        6 December, 1896.

I greatly regret the decision expressed in your letter just
received regret it alike on personal grounds and on public
grounds. All things remembered, however, I do not greatly
wonder that your attitude is that which you describe.

But, in the first place, let me point out to you that, in a
preceding paragraph, England's dealings with native peoples
in all parts of the world are condemned quite as strongly
                                  In the second place, let me
and much more elaborately.
        out that, if  FI rarenmceem"bevryinrgig"htliyn  ("I phoalivtiecalnotburthgelaribeos ok"
point   I speak of
here),
with other civilized nations : the obvious implication being
that all are chargeable with the same offence. Then, in the
third place, let me point out that I have, if not in this last
volume, yet in
the expression  another      vobluumrgelar(yth"e   Study of Sociology)  used
                u political                       in reference to our   own
doings especially ; and I
                             may  aad"d    that, in     characterizing our
invasion of Afghanistan       as         political      burglary," I gave
grievous offence to Lord Lytton, who was then Viceroy and
to whom I was known personally. You will see, therefore,
that my implied condemnation does not refer to the French
more than to the other European peoples, and that I could
not very well have omitted to condemn the one without in-

justice to the other.
The truth is that, of all the feelings I entertain concerning

social affairs, my detestation of the barbarous conduct of strong

peoples to weak peoples is the most intense. . . . To my
thinking the nations which call themselves civilized are no
400 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxv.

better than white savages, who, with their cannon and rifles,
conquer tribes of dark savages, armed with javelins and arrows,
as easily as a giant thrashes a child, and who, having glorified
themselves in their victories, take possession of the conquered

lands and tyrannize over the subject peoples. . . .

     Elsewhere- I have spoken of the nations of Europe as a
hundred million pagans masquerading as Christians. Not
(infrequently in private intercourse I have found myself trying
to convert Christians to Christianity, but have invariably failed.
The truth is that priests and people alike, while taking their
nominal creed from the New Testament, take their real creed
from Homer. Not Christ, but Achilles is their ideal. One

day in the week they profess the creed of forgiveness, and

six days in the week they inculcate and practice the creed
of revenge. On Sunday they promise to love their neighbours
as themselves, and on Monday treat with utter scorn any
one who proposes to act out that promise in dealing with
inferior peoples. Nay, they have even intensified the spirit
of revenge inherited from barbarians. For, whereas the law
between hostile tribes of savages is life for life, the law of
the so-called civilized in dealing with savages is for one life
many lives. Not only do I feel perpetually angered by this
hypocrisy which daily says one thing and does the opposite
thing, but I also feel perpetually angered by it as being
diametrically opposed to human progress ; since all further
advance depends on the decline of militancy and rise of in-
dustrialism. . . . But what the great mass of the civilized
peoples in their dealings with the uncivilized regard as glory,
I regard as shame.

     I have not hesitated to offend my own countrymen by
frequent expressions of the feelings thus indicated, and I do
not at all hesitate to offend the French in the same way.
if If,
however,                              question of translation or no translation
                                   1

                       it
                           is
                                   a
no one will venture to offend French susceptibilities by
publishing in France the passage in question, then,
                                      a                              may

                                                                  I
remark, that the difficulty may be practically overcome by
omitting the sentence and putting number of asterisks in

in its place.

    To mark the completion of the Synthetic Philosophy

the editor of the Nineteenth Century was desirous to have
an article, and consulted Spencer as to the choice of

writer. Spencer at first thought of Professor Masson, about
whom he wrote as follows to Mr. Knowles
                                      :

                                                                      a

       M. H. de Varigny undertook the translation of this Part, as well as1
of Professional Institutions.
1 8 9 5 - 1 900]       Revision  401

The only difficulty which I see is that which arises from
our friendship, which has lasted nowr for live and forty years
and from which some bias may naturally result, or may
naturally be supposed to result. In fact, however, I think
that both he and I are quite prepared to say what we think
of one another's opinions and to accept expressions of dissent
without the least ruffling of feeling. Indeed I am quite
prepared for marked divergences from my views in some
directions. He may, for instance, fitly comment on my ex-
                  of all authority (a trait without \vhich, indeed,
treme disregard   have done what I have). Again he may say

I should never
with truth that I undervalue the products of ancient thought
and the products of ancient life in general. Then, too, there
is the fact that I ignore utterly the personal element in history,
and, indeed, show little respect for history altogether as it is

ordinarily conceived.

                             To DAVID MASSOX.

                                                                   17 January, 1897.
    The more I think of it the less I like it. It is clear to
me that you would be continually hampered by the thought
of saying too much or too little ; and it would be disagree-
able to me to have things said under either an actual or a
supposed bias. All things considered, I think it would be best
if you will regard the suggestion as not having been made.
     The name of Alfred W. Benn has occurred to me as that
of a fit man. He is entirely unknown to me, and, judging from
what I have seen of his writing in the Academy and Mind,
is quite competent.

     The editor acquiesced in the suggestion as to Mr. Benn
on condition that Spencer would look through the article
when it was finished, and if satisfied, would give it a
sort of formal approval, to be printed with it. This
Spencer refused to do. The editor then gave way. But,
when in the spring of 1899 the article was finished, he
raised objections on the ground that it did not fulfil the
condition of being " understanded of the people," and
notwithstanding repeated remonstrances from Spencer,
declined to publish it. Spencer was greatly annoyed : all
the more so seeing that the proposal for an article had
emanated from the editor and not from him. Had
he been told at the very outset that the article must be
written so that the man in the street could understand

and that must bear on its face some mark of his approval,

         26
it
                                                                                  it,
4O2 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxv.

Spencer would not have recommended Mr. Benn or any
other person. " But then," says Mr. Benn in a letter to the
present writer, " I should never have known Mr. Spencer's
good opinion of me nor have had the advantage of his
personal acquaintance." l

     When informing Spencer that the article was finished
Mr. Benn raised some questions that had occurred to him

in the course of his writing.

           To ALFRED W. BENN.

                                              27 March, 1899.
         The unanswerable questions you raise are, I think, further
illustrations of the muddle which results when we attempt any

solution of ultimate questions.

    The idea of Cause is itself an entirely relative idea, and

being so, is in the last resort inapplicable to the relation between
phenomena and that which transcends phenomena, however
needful it may seem to us to use the word in that relation.
Cause in our conception has for its ultimate symbol the relation

in consciousness between the sense of effort and any change
which we produce by effort ; and we use that subjective rela-
tion as a symbol for all objective relations of Cause, and when

attempting to pass the limit, thought rushes out to form a rela-
tion between phenomena and that which transcends them, and
inevitably carries with it this same conception of Cause. But
inevitably it is a symbolic conception, and much as it seems
needful for us to think of the Unknowable as Cause, yet clearly

our conception of Cause, being in its origin subjective and

symbolic, is essentially inapplicable.
     But there is even a still deeper reply, namely, that the very
idea of explanation is out of place. I have repeatedly, when
dwelling on the matter and feeling at once the need for explana-
tion and yet the conviction that no explanation is possible,
ended in the thought that the very idea" of explanation is

irrelevant. For what is explanation ? That, too, is a purely
relative conception, which, if we analyze
                                              implies in every
case the interpretation of more special truth in terms ofit,
           ;
                                                   if
                       a
it a a   more general truth and the making of explanation behind
explanation ends in reducing all special truths to cases of the
most general truth. But now, what happens1
                                                       we carry out
this definition of explanation into the relation between the
Knowable and the Unknowable The explanation of that
           ;

                     it
                                      ?
relation would be to include along with other relations in

         more general relation but where  is  there more general
                                              a

            Though Spencer wished to see the article published elsewhere,
         has, in point of fact, never appeared.
9]1895-1  Revision                                                                                               403

relation than that between the Knowable and the Unknowable ?
There is none. That is to say, the idea of explanation is

excluded.

     When the Trustees of the British Library of Political
Science, connected with the London School of Economics

and Political Science, requested him to present his works to
the Library he not only embraced the opportunity of
repeating his well-known views about Free Libraries, but

took occasion to call in question the soundness of the
policy pursued in the British Library of Political Science.

          To W. A. S. HEWINS.

                                              24 March, 1897.

From time to time I have had various applications akin to
the one you make and have in all cases declined compliance.
I disapprove of free libraries altogether, the British Museum

Library included, believing that in the long run they are mis-

chievous rather than beneficial ; as we see clearly in the case
of Municipal and local Free Libraries which, instead of being
places for study, have become places for reading trashy novels,
worthless papers, and learning the odds. I no more approve
of Free Libraries than I approve of Free Bakeries. Food for
the mind should no more be given gratis than food for the body
should be given gratis. The whole scheme of public instruc-
tion, be it in Free Libraries or by State Education, is socialistic,
and I am profoundly averse to socialism in every form.

Moreover, through the prospectus you send me there

obviously runs the idea that political science is to be based upon
an exhaustive accumulation of details of all orders, derived
from all sources parliamentary papers, reports of commissions,
and all the details of administration from various countries
and colonies. I hold, contrariwise, that political science is
smothered in such a mass of details, the data for true conclu-

sions being relatively broad and accessible.
The institution will be used by those who have in view the
extension of State agencies. Alike from what I know of its
inception and from what I now see of
                                              am convinced that
it

                    a
                                           a

                                                          iIt,

                                                                             I
                                                                          I

                                                                                                              a
will be an appliance not for the diffusion of political science
but for the diffusion of political quackery.

     When similar request was made in 1898 on behalf of
the Ruskin Hall, Oxford, he declined under misappre-
hension as to the aims of the Hall. " am profoundly

averse to the teachings of Ruskin alike in social affairs in

general and even to large extent in art.      must decline
404 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxv.

doing anything that may directly or indirectly conduce to
the spread of his influence."

     Misconceptions with respect to isolated opinions of such
a voluminous writer as Spencer were to be expected, but
the general drift of his doctrines ought to have been well
understood by this time.

                           To M. W. KEATIXGE.

                                                                        13 April, 1897.
     I fear I cannot give you any dictum to serve your purpose,
for my opinions are directly at variance with those you suppose.
     There is a mania everywhere for uniformity ; and centralized
teaching of teachers is manifestly in the direction of uniformity.
Throughout all organized existence variety tends to life, uni-
formity tends to death. Competition in methods of education
is all-essential and anything that tends to diminish competition
will be detrimental.
     Your notion of restrictions put upon the teaching profession
is absolutely at variance with the views I hold. It is trade-
unionism in teaching it is a reversion to the ancient condition
of guilds. It is a limitation of individual freedom. It is part
of a general regime which I utterly detest.

          as you apparently indicate, raising the status of teachers
and giving them better pay implies increase of taxation, general
or local, then you may judge how far approve of when tell
you that, from my very earliest days down to the present time,

   have been persistent opponent of all State-education.
I
       If,

                         a

                                                      I
                                                                                it
                                                                                     I

     That he no longer looked upon his London house as
his home may be gathered from the following.

                                             To Miss           .

                                                                              1  April, 1897.

For practical purposes, as at present carried on, the                          is
                 much more yours than mine. During my
establishment
I
long absences,   n-ow                        c-ovfearminigly,  half the year,      the house
                isoccupied by the                               yourselves and     relatives and
                                                                                   ;
                                            ,
                                                                                          is
                            I
when am at home the social intercourse and the administra-

tion give the impression that 64, Avenue Road the residence
                       where Mr. Spencer resides when he in
of the Misses                                                                      is

town. . . .
All things considered do not desire any longer to maintain
our relations. . . . On estimating the advantages derive from
                                                                                 I
                                                                                            I
the presence of yourself and your sisters in the house, find

them but small not by any means great enough to counter-

balance the disadvantages.

Please therefore accept this letter as an intimation that the
9]1895-1                       Revision               40 5

residence of yourself and your sisters with me will end on the
first of July next.

    A good deal of correspondence passed in May and June

between him and a lady at whose house he spent rather
less than a fornight as a " paying guest." Through the

medium of an advertisement what seemed like a rural

paradise had been discovered. Things went on fairly well

for  a week, save    for an    occasional   murmur    ; but within  a
few   days he left.      This   experience    as a "  paying guest  "

seems to have prompted the following letter.

                     To MRS. LYNX LIXTOX.     15 June, 1897.

     Let me suggest to you a work which might fitly be the
crowning work of your life a work on u Good and Bad
Women."

    You have rather obtained for yourself the reputation for
holding a brief for men versus women, whereas I rather think
the fact is that you simply aim to check that over-exaltation
of women which has long been dominant, and which is re-
ceiving an eclatante illustration in a recent essay by Mrs.
J. R. Green, which is commented upon in this week's Spectator.

     The flattering of women has been, one might almost say, a
chief business of poets, and women have most of them very
readily accepted the incense with little qualification ; and this
has been so perpetual and has been so habitually accepted by
men as to have caused a perverted opinion. . . .

     The natures of men and women are topics of continual dis-
cussion, but entirely of random discussion, with no analysis and
no collection of evidence and balancing of results.

    If you entertain my proposal I should like very well by

and by to make some suggestions as to modes of enquiry and
modes of comparison. 1

     In July he went to Boughton Monchelsea, near Maid-
stone, where he stayed till September. On returning to

town he took chambers in Park Place, St. James's, to be
near the Athenaeum, where he had not been since November
of the previous year, and " to acquire by a more enjoy-
able life, the requisite strength for driving backwards
and forwards from Avenue Road." After three days he

broke down, went home to Avenue Road, and did not

    1 The suggestion apparently led to nothing. See Life of Mrs. Lynn
Linton, p. 329.
406 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxv.

again leave the house until he started for Brighton in

October. Considering how little he had been in London,

and how little happiness he had enjoyed there during

recent years, one may wonder why he continued to keep
up a house in town. The explanation lies partly in that

hopefulness which always led him to anticipate a change

for the better, and partly in his reluctance to sever his

connexion with the scene of his literary struggles and

successes with the great city in which had been kept up

the closest friendships of his life. At length, however, the

final step was taken. "The prospect of passing my last

days monotonously in Avenue Road has become a dread

to me, and- I have decided that they may be passed much

better here in front of the sea and with plenty of sun."

He moved into 5, Percival Terrace, Brighton, soon after
the beginning of 1898, hoping, as he wrote to Mr. Lecky,

that his London friends would use his house as an hotel,

so that he might see them as often as possible. His first

concern was to get two ladies to complete his small

domestic circle, musical ability being an essential qualifi-
cation in one of them. His advertisement for either two

sisters, or a mother and daughter, resulted in adding one

more to the list of coincidences mentioned in the Auto-

biography (i., 334, 453 ; ii., 360). Two orphaned sisters of
the name of D          replied to his advertisement. Pre-

viously to this Mrs. Briton Riviere had recommended two

sisters, also named D  ; and he naturally concluded that

the ladies who had answered his advertisement were the
same as those recommended by Mrs. Riviere. " I should

fear that these young ladies being orphans may have tended

rather to the melancholy than to the joyous." Mrs. Riviere

then informed him that the ladies she had recommended

were not orphans, both their parents being alive.

                       To MRS. RIVIERE.

                                         29 January, 1898.

In reply to a recent advertisement there came a letter from
certain two Misses D   - proposing to accept the position

I offered. Remembering that you had recommended certain
two Misses D   , the conclusion was drawn without hesita-
tion that they were the same two. It turns out to be otherwise.
The two who replied to my advertisement are daughters of a
1895-19]                       Revision                             407

stockbroker and are orphans. The name is by no means
common. Who would have supposed that there should be
bearing that name two pairs of sisters both wishing to under-
take similar positions ? The thing would be considered in a
fiction as absolutely incredible.

    Throughout 1898, and well into the Spring of 1899, his

domestic circle underwent many changes, owing partly to

his wanting "a combination of qualities which is not very

common," as several of his friends told him. With the

help of Airs. Charlton Bastian he was fortunate in the

spring of 1899 in meeting with Miss Key, a skilled
musician, whom he engaged for the special duty of playing

the piano, which he liked to hear played several times a day ;

the piece he wished to be played being usually selected by
himself. A month or two later Miss Killick took over

the duties of housekeeper. These two ladies remained with

him till his death, contributing in no small degree by their

thoughtfulness and sympathy to the comfort and happi-

ness of his closing years.

to  During the   year 1898 he had on          more than one occasion
     clear up "  misrepresentations."         One of these was con-

tained in a paragraph in Literature for January, announcing

that   aouftor"thhcoowminMgr.  work by Mr. W.    H.   Mallock would
point                          Spencer embodies  and  gives fresh life

to the fundamental error of contemporary ' advanced '

thinkers in defining the social aggregate as a body ' com-

posed of approximately equal units.'" Spencer was at a
loss to know where Mr. Mallock had found "a passage

authorizing this representation."

                 To W. H. MALLOCK.

                                                 30 January, 1898.

    After much seeking I have discovered one of the passages
to which you refer, but it seems to me that its context affords
no justification for the way in which you interpret it. It is a

passage on p. 5 of the Principles of Sociology, in which, as a pre-
liminary, the social aggregate formed by social insects is dis-
tinguished from a human
family and because it is       "soncoitetya,  because it is in reality a large
                                              union among like individuals

substantially independent of one another in parentage, and

approximately equal in their capacities." If here there is an

implied conception of a human society, the interpretation of
408              Life of Herbert Spencer                                 [CHAP. xxv.

the words is to be taken in connexion with the contra-dis-

tinguished society : the words used should be understood in
the light of this distinction. A society of ants, for example,

consists of several classes perfect males and females, workers,
soldiers and these classes differ from one another very greatly

in their structures and concomitant capacities. Obviously the

intention is to distinguish the markedly unequal capacities pos-
sessed by units of a society like this and the approximately
equal capacities of the units forming a human society ; and
surely it is undeniable that, in contrast with these enormous

differences in capacity among the classes of ants, the differences

in capacity among human beings become relatively small ; as
compared with the extremely unlike capacities of queens, males,
                 fiwtloyrkbeerscaallmedong"
soldiers    and                               ants, the capacities       of         human
beings    may                                approximately equal."                  should
                                                                           I

tchhoaanvtterastththeouwgawhstortdhthea"texaipptrperwsosaxisoimn cale"teaarlyppt"hroaxitsimoianntlyeltyhwaheteqnuraeldla"rtaiowunsinedg,quathintieds

justifiable.
That your interpretation is unwarranted is clearly enough
indicated by passages in the Study of Sociology accompanying
those you refer to, and is quite definitely excluded by large
parts of the Principles of Sociology. In the Study of Sociology, in

"...the chapter entitled u The Nature of the Social Science
[the exposition] sufficiently implies recognition of the effects
of superiority and inferiority among the units, for how can there

be established the differences referred to unless because the

more powerful and more intelligent rise to the top ? So that

even here your interpretation is tacitly negatived ; and then
y"ouPowlitiilclalturInnsttoitutthioensP,r"incyiopuleswiollf
...if                                                        Sociology,  Part V.,   treating
                                                                         elaborate  exposi-
of                                                           find an

tion still more rigorously excluding it.
So too in the Principles of Ethics you will see, in the
division entitled "Justice," a variously-emphasized assertion that
superiority must be allowed to bring to its possessor all the

naturally-resulting benefits, and inferiority the naturally-result-
ing evils. Moreover, you will find condemnation of the
socialistic ideal, with which, apparently, your representation
indicated in Literature implies my sympathy.

     Apparently this did not convince Mr. Mallock, who
thought the great man theory "shows itself only acciden-
tally and incidentally, in the body of your work. I am

well aware that your sympathies are not with the Socialists;
but I confess, that I think your method of merging the
great man in the aggregate of conditions that have pro-
duced him, has furnished socialistic theorists with many of
9]1 8 9 5 " 1           Revision                                                           409

their weapons." He returned to the charge in the Nine-

teenth Century for August ; maintaining that in the non-

sreoccoiaglniftaicotn"  of "the inequality of       individuals as a   cardinal
                        " we have the secret       of Mr. Spencer's   defect as

a sociologist. This great fact of human inequality, instead

of being systematically studied by him, is systematically

and ostentatiously ignored by him." To these criticisms

Spencer replied in the same review the month following.

Another "misrepresentation" had reference to the doc-

trine of animism, Literature representing him as an adherent.

This  he  repudiated,   in the issue               of February 5, showing
how       the Data of   Sociology "                instead of accepting the
      in

doctrine of animism, I have not only avowedly rejected

but have, throughout the successive parts of                                            long
it,                                                                   a
argument, supplied what conceive to be direct and indirect               is
                   ?    I
disproofs of it." In the same periodical (19 February), he
                   itendeavoured to remove the perplexity in which Mr.'

Andrew Lang was involved in The Making                   of           Religion.

Under the name of Animism or Fetichism "there an

alleged primordial tendency in the human mind to con-

ceive inanimate things as animated as having animating

principles or spirits. The essential question            is           has the

                                                              :

primitive man an innate tendency thus to conceive things

around                  Professor Tylor says Yes   ;     say No.                        1  do

                                                      I

not think requires any revised terminology to make       '

this difference clear." The matter had to be taken up

again in July. The Spectator had classed him as one

of those who            believed that  superstitious ideas arose from
" the universal         conviction or  feeling that all things in Nature

are endowed with the sentient vitality and the unruly
affections of mankind." " entertain no such belief," he
wrote to the editor. " This ascription to me. . of a
                        I                                it
                                                I           is

                                                               is
                                                                                     .
belief which have emphatically rejected, one of many

examples showing me how impossible                       to exclude

misunderstanding."

     The war between the United States and Spain wasit

weighing heavily on the consciences of many thoughtful
Americans, among whom was Mr. Moncure.Conway, who
asked Spencer whether would not be possible to form

concert of eminent men, who, whenever peril of war
                                                         a
                                                                                      a
4io Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxv.

arose, should meet as a " supreme court of civilization "
and determine the right and wrong, before any declaration
of war took place.

             To MOXCURE D. CON'WAY.

                                       17 July, 1898.

...I sympathize in your feelings and your aims, but not in
your hopes.  In people's present mood nothing can be
done in that direction.
Now that the white savages of Europe are overrunning the
dark savages everywhere now that the European nations are
vying with one another in political burglaries now that we
have entered upon an era of social cannibalism in which the
strong nations are devouring the weaker now that national
interests, national prestige, pluck, and so forth are alone

thought of, and equity has     u"ttuenrclytuoudsr,o"ppietdis  out of    thought,
while rectitude is scorned as                                  useless  to resist

the wave of barbarism. There is a bad time coming, and
civilized mankind will (morally) be uncivilized before civiliza-

tion can again advance.
     Such a body as that which you propose, even could its

members agree, would be pooh-poohed as sentimental and
visionary. The universal aggressiveness and universal culture
of blood-thirst will bring back military despotism, out of which

after many generations partial freedom may again emerge.

     The reader will remember how, when the Anti-Aggression
excitement was on him in 1882, he had endeavoured to in-

duce Miss Bevington to put the indignation he felt into
verse. The idea occurred to him again this year.

             To WILFRID SCAWEN BLUNT.

                                     1 October, 1898.

     For some years I have been casting about for a poet who
might fitly undertake a subject I very much want to see
efficiently dealt with. At one time I thought of proposing
it to Mr. Robert Buchanan, who in respect of vigour of ex-

pression and strength of moral indignation seemed appropriate,
but I concluded that the general feeling with regard to him
would prevent a favourable reception would in fact tend very
much to cancel the effect to be produced. Afterwards the
name of Mr. William Watson occurred to me as one who had
shown feelings of the kind I wished to see expressed. But,

admirable as much of his poetry  the element of power
:

                                             is,
                                                                                      a is
not marked he does not display a due amount of burning
sarcasm. Your recent letter in the Times, and since then
review in the Academy in which there were quotations from
1895-19]                     Revision                                              411

your poem " The Wind and the Whirlwind," lead me to hope
that you may work out the idea I refer to.
    This idea is suggested by the first part of Goethe's                  " Faust"
The Prologue in Heaven, I think it is called. In this, if
I remember rightly           now some 50 years since read it),
                          (it
                              is

                                                          I
                                                                       I
Mephistopheles obtains permission to tempt Faust the drama

being thereupon initiated. Instead of this suggest an inter-
view and dialogue in which Satan seeks authority to find some
being more wicked than himself, with the understanding that,

he succeeds, this being shall take his place. The test of
if                        to be the degree of disloyalty the degree of
wickedness
        6

                      is
rebellion against divine government.

October. Thank you for your letter.             am heartily glad
                             I
to find you entertain my suggestion. . .I

                                              I
                                                                  .
                                                     aI
                                                                                a
My beliefs are pretty much as pessimistic as those you
express in respect at least of the approaching condition of
mankind but holding though do that we are commencing
aa long course of re-barbarization from which the reaction may
take very long in coming, nevertheless hold that reaction
     5Iwill come, and look forward with hope to remote future of
desirable kind, to be reached after numerous movements
of progress and retrogression. Did think that men wereis
               is ;likely to remain in the far future anything like what they now
are, should contemplate with equanimity the sweeping away
of the whole race.

November. How to put the greatest amount of feeling

and idea in the shortest space         the problem to be solved
                                  is
                                        is
                                             a
by every writer, more especially by the poet, for rightly con-
ceived (not as by Browning) poetry              vehicle in which the

friction             reduced to minimum, and of course everything
                          a

which superfluous adds to the friction.   I     have often thought

that nearly all our poets would have greatly benefited by
restriction to one-fourth the space. Works of art in general
would in nearly all cases profit by restraint. Much architecture

and much internal decoration  is  spoiled by excess, and nearly

every painter puts too much into his pictures. Composers, too,
even the highest of them, as Beethoven, often spoil their works
by needless expansion. To the artist each new idea seems so
good that he cannot make up his mind to leave out, and so
                                                it

more or less sacrifices the effect of the whole to the effect

of the part.

     Before the appearance    of Satan Absolved           the title
chosen for his poem by        Mr. Scawen Blunt             Spencer

wrote
:
412 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxv.

                        To WILFRID SCAWEN BLUNT.

                                                                       23 June, 1899.
     I rejoice to hear that the poem is finished, and that its
publication is not far off.
     Of course I feel honoured by your proposal to preface some
words of dedication to me, and accept with pleasure. Please
do not, however, in any introductory words, indicate the origin
of the idea which the poem elaborates. You will perhaps be
surprised by this request until you understand my reason.
     Already my general views, touching as they do in many
places upon religious opinions, have from time to time ex-
posed me to vilification both here and in America, and have,
in consequence, raised impediments to the wider diffusion of the
general philosophical views which I have set forth, and have
in various ways diminished both the circulation and the
influence of the books. Such being the case I do not want
to again rouse, even more strongly than hitherto, the oiiinin
theologicum and to give it a further handle for attacks, not only
upon my declared religious opinions, but also upon the system
of thought associated with them, but which is in reality inde-
pendent of them. It is this contemplation not of the personal,
but of the impersonal effects, which makes me wish not to
arouse still greater antagonism than I have already done. A
further obstacle to the spread of evolutionary views would, I
think, be a greater evil than any benefit to be gained.

On receiving a copy of the poem, he wrote in haste to

beg Mr. Blunt   to   omit a passage   on the first   page.   The
description of  the  ante-chamber    of heaven "    savours   too

much of the earth earthy, . . . and puts the poem in too

low a key."

                      To WILFRID SCAWEX BLUXT.

                                                                                    28 October, 1899.

     Let me first apologize for my brusquely-expressed letter
written immediately on receipt of Satan Absolved. . . ,

     I did not at first recognize the fact that, by calling the poem
a u Victorian Mystery," you intended to suggest some analogy
to the mysteries of Medieval days, and that you had adopted
a mode of treatment implied by this analogy. Hence that
assimilation of the divine and the human, which characterized

the mystery- plays, had not been understood by me as sequent
upon the adoption of the earlier mode of thought, and as a
result gave me a sense of incongruity. Though I now see that
the adoption of this ancient mode of thought gives consistency
to the work, yet it seems to me that we (or at least cultured
people) have so far travelled away from that mode of thought
9]1 8 9 5 - 1  Revision                                4 13

that the revival of it will be apt to excite in many readers an

internal protest.
     My chief difficulty, however, in forming a judgment arises,

as I now see, from the wide difference between the general
conception as embodied by you and the conception which I

had myself formed and suggested. . . .

     This much, however, I can say with all sincerity that I like

it much better on a second reading than on the first ; and this

I think is a marked evidence of its goodness. Unquestionably,
Satan's description of Man and his doings is given with great
power, and ought to bring to their senses millions of hypocrites
who profess the current religion. I wish you would emphasize
more strongly the gigantic lie daily enacted the contrast be-
tween the Christian professions and the pagan actions, and the
perpetual insult to one they call Omniscient in thinking that
they can compound for atrocious deeds by laudatory words.

     During the winter of 1898-99 he wrote two postscripts to

Part VII. of the Psychology : one on Idealism and Realism ;

the other in reply to a criticism of the late Professor Green,
whose article in the Contemporary Review for December,
1877, had recently been republished. 1 In addition to these
he wrote a chapter on "The Filiation of Ideas," which
he stereotyped and put away for future use. 2 A renewed

attempt to introduce the metric system suggested the
expediency of issuing a second edition of the brochure,
"Against the Metric System," and again distributing it

among members of Parliament. Under the name "A

Citizen " he wrote to the Times four letters, which were

included in the pamphlet.
     With all his disregard for public opinion as far as con-

cerned his philosophical doctrines notwithstanding the
indifference or even satisfaction with \vhich he contem-

plated the shocks he occasionally gave to current orthodoxy,
whether scientific or religious he was extremely sensitive
to criticism of his character, and had a rooted dislike to

his private life and conversation being treated as public
property. He assumed that those who enjoyed the privilege
of his intimacy would respect the unwritten law of private

intercourse by scrupulously refraining from making public

1 Principles of Psychology, ii., 505-20, Ed. of 1899.
2 Reprinted in this volume as Appendix B.
414 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxv.

the trivial no less than the important matters of his daily

life. Himself taking little interest in personalities and gossip,

he never dreamt that unpremeditated remarks made in the

hearing of those living under the same roof, might be pub-

lished abroad, or that the petty details of domestic life might

have their pettiness intensified by being taken out of their

appropriate setting and held up as a public spectacle. He

had a rude awakening in the spring of 1899. Soon after
the announcement of his forthcoming book on Spencer,

Mr. Hector Macpherson         roefce"ivReedmifnroismcenacelsadyofquHiteerbuernt-
known to him, an offer

Spencer." She and her father had lived at 38, Queen's
Gardens during part of the time Spencer was there, and had

been in the habit of taking notes of Spencer's sayings and

doings, and these notes she now offered for ten guineas,

adding that if they were not accepted she could readily find

a publisher later on. On hearing of this, and on the advice

of his solicitors that he had no power to stop the publica-

tion of statements concerning himself, he requested Mr.

Macpherson to offer ten guineas for the MS., provided the

lady would undertake not to publish any other version of

the reminiscences. A legal minute of agreement and sale

was drawn up and signed, and in due course Spencer

obtained possession of the manuscript.

                              To HECTOR MACPHERSON.

                                                     25 April, 1899.

You bargained better than you knew. There are many

absolutely false statements false to the extent of absurdity.
Here is a quotation: "Often         invited to dine at Marl-
                            is
                                         a;

                                                I

                                                                (!)
                                                                              's

                                                                                       I

                                                                                                       is

                                                                                                                                                              :
                                                                                                                                                                     !
boimigh House, but would never go." Imagine the Prince
of Wales often repeating his invitations after being declined
T" hGeladsstatotenme envtery  absolutely baseless. Another
                              often came to breakfast, but  statement
                                                            this was before
the Ht)me Rule affair also George Eliot, Darwin, Tyndall."
Again absolutely false. With no one of the four did ever
exchange breakfast civilities save Mr. Gladstone, and instead of
his often breakfasting with me some three or four times break-
fasted with him. . . . Some of Mr.      quotations from his

diary are, however, of libellous kind.

     Spencer's first idea had been that the lady should be
informed by the firm of lawyers who had the matter in hand
9]1895-1                      Revision  4 15

that the publication of these reminiscences would render
her liable to prosecution. But in the end he took a view
of the matter which it seems a pity he did not take at the

outset to treat the proposed publication with indifference,
seeing that it contained its own antidote.

     The health of Mr. Grant Allen was giving Spencer much
concern, his sympathies as usual leading him to try to trace
the evil to its source. A visit of some duration from his

friend afforded opportunities for earnest entreaties. These
were afterwards enforced by appeals to Mr. Grant Allen's

scientific knowledge.

          To GRANT ALLEX.

                              BRIGHTON, 2 June, 1899.

     I am glad to hear that your wife thinks that you have
profited by your stay here. I hope that the corner may be

by-and-by turned completely.
...That it may be turned completely it is clear that you must
improve your mastication.     If I had to teach children I

should give them among other things a lesson on the import-
ance of mastication, and should illustrate it by taking a small
iron nail and weighing against it some pinches of iron filings
till the two balanced ; then, putting them into two glasses,
pouring into each a quantity of dilute sulphuric acid, leaving
them to stir the two from time to time, and showing them that
whereas the iron filings quickly dissolve, the dissolving of the
nail would be a business of something like a week. This

would impress on them the importance of reducing food to
small fragments. That you, a scientific man, should not

recognize this is to me astonishing. 1

     When Mr. Grant Allen died in October following,
Spencer lost one of his ablest and most chivalrous allies.
Writing in June, 1900, to Mr. Edward Clodd on receiving

a copy of the Memoir, he said :

     I was often surprised by his versatility, but now that the
facts are brought together, it is clear to me that I was not
sufficiently surprised. One of the traits on which I should
myself have commented had 1 written about him was his
immense quickness of perception. He well deserved this
biography.

     1 Mastication formed the subject of a brief essay he began to dictate
a few weeks before his death, but did not finish.
4i 6 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxv.

     The correspondence that follows with Mr. (afterwards
Sir) Leslie Stephen regarding the formation of an Ethical
Lecturers Fund has an interest apart from its immediate
purpose. It throws light upon the question how, with his
professed dislike to reading, he was able to amass the
immense amount of information contained in his earlier
books. This profusion of exemplification and illustration
seems inconsistent with his own repeated statements that
he was constitutionally, and as a matter of fact, idle that
he was an impatient reader, and actually read little. In one
of the following letters to Mr. Leslie Stephen he says that
when preparing to write he read up in those directions
in which he expected to find materials for his own general-
izations, not caring for the generalizations of others. Under
the guidance of a generalization he picked out the relevant
material, ignoring the irrelevant ; as a lawyer restricts his
reading in preparing his brief. That he lost by this
restricted reading cannot be doubted. It gave colour to
the not ill-natured remark of one of his friends : "Scratch
Spencer, and you come upon ignorance." But, taking all
in all, it may be said that what he lost through lack of
diligence in acquisition he made up for, or more than made
up for, by the continuous exercise of his wonderful gift of
organization. If the word industrious can be so applied,
then, as a thinker Spencer was pre-eminently industrious,
his mind was incessantly occupied with the logical relations
of things. It was the firm grasp he had of these logical

relations that enabled him to retain complete mastery
over the details, marshalling them at his bidding ; giving,
perhaps, also the impression of having unfathomable sources

of information from which to draw. His literary industry
was untiring. Not only were his published writings volu-
minous, but his correspondence was very great. The limit

imposed on the writer of this volume has rendered it impos-
sible to reproduce more than a small fraction of his letters.

                            To LESLIE STEPHEN.

                                                                         28 June, 1899.
     When I received the circular asking for aid in raising the
Ethical Lecturers Fund I at once decided to contribute. On
re-reading the prospectus, however, I was brought to a pause
9]1895-!                           Revision                 417

by the paragraph requiring a University Honours degree as

the minimum intellectual equipment. If John Mill had been

alive and a young man, his candidature would have been
negatived by this requirement. And were I a young man and
proposed to adopt the career of ethical lecturer, my candidature
also would be negatived.

    30 June. The expression which you underline does not
seem to me to change the essential meaning of the passage I
referred to. It implies that there shall be a standard of educa-
tion substantially like that which a university gives.

     I do not know what might have been the case with Mill.
I can only say that were I young and a candidate, the regula-
tion would rigorously exclude me. Not only could I have

shown no education equivalent to a university honours degree,

but I could have showrn none equivalent to the lowest degree

a university gives. . . .

     Naturally, such being my position, I demur to the test
specified. Moreover, not on personal grounds only, but on
general grounds, I demur to the assumption that a university
career implies a lit preparation.

          FROM LESLIE STEPHEN.                              1 July, 1899.

    You  ansayedtuhcaattiown he"neqyuoiuvalwenetre   young   you could not have
shown                                               to the  lowest degree a uni-
versity gives." It is not for me to dispute that statement. I
am, however, sure that when you first published books upon

ethical questions, you had somehow or other attained an

amount   ofotfheknavoewrlaegdege"   upon such topics         very much superior
to that                            honour man," who         satisfies the examiners
in his department of study. . . . We never thought of suggest-

ing that candidates should have passed any particular course,
but that their general hold of intellectual culture should be

equal to that implied by capacity to fulfil the ordinary con-
ditions of university success.

                              To LESLIE STEPHEN.
                                                                           2 July, 1899.

    Your assumption is a very natural one, but it is utterly
mistaken. When Social Statics was written I had none of that
preparation which you suppose.

     When with my uncle, from thirteen to sixteen, my acquire-
ments were limited to Euclid, algebra, trigonometry, mechanics,
and the first part of Newton's Principia. To this equipment I
never added. During my eight years of engineering life I read
next to nothing even of professional literature. Then as
always, I was an impatient reader and read nothing continu-
ously except novels and travels, and of these but little. I am

          27
4i 8 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxV.

in fact constitutionally idle. I doubt whether during all these
years I ever read any serious book for an hour at a stretch.
You may judge of my condition with regard to knowledge
from the fact that during all my life up to the time Social
Statics was written, there had been a copy of Locke on my
father's shelves which I never read I am not certain that I
ever took it down. And the same holds of all other books
of philosophical kinds. I never read any of Bacon's writings,
save his essays.     I              looked into Hobbes until,   when
writing the essay       "nTehveer  Social Organism," I wanted  to see
                   on

the details of his grotesque conception. It was the same with
Politics and with Ethics. At the time Social Statics was written
I knew of Paley nothing more than that he enunciated the
doctrine of expediency ; and of Bentham I knew only that he
was the promulgator of the Greatest Happiness principle. The
doctrines of other ethical writers referred to were known by
me only through references to them here and there met with.
I never then looked into any of their books ; and, moreover,
I have never since looked into any of their books. When
about twenty-three I happened to get hold of Mill's Logic, then
recently published, and read with approval his criticism of the
Syllogism. When twenty-four I met with a translation of Kant
and read the first few pages. Forthwith, rejecting his doctrine
of Time and Space, I read no further. My ignorance of
ancient philosophical writers was absolute. After Social Statics
was published (in 1851) I made the acquaintance of Mr. Lewes,
and one result was that I read his Biographical History of
Philosophy. . , . And, shortly after that (in 1852), a present
of Mill's Logic having been made to me by George Eliot, I read
that through : one result being that I made an attack upon one

of his doctrines in the Westminster.
Since those days I have done nothing worth mentioning
to fill up the implied deficiencies. Twice or thrice I have
taken up Plato's Dialogues and have quickly put them down
with more or less irritation. And of Aristotle I know even less

than of Plato. 1

    If you ask- how there comes such an amount of incorporated
fact as is found in Social Statics, my reply is that when preparing
to write it I read up in those directions in which I expected to
find materials for generalization. I did not trouble myself with

the generalizations of others.
     And that indeed indicates my general attitude. All along
I have looked at things through my own eyes and not through
the eyes of others. I believe that it is in some measure because
I have gone direct to Nature, and have escaped the warping

     In a letter to Prof. Brough, of Aberystwith, in 1895, he said, "I

never at any time paid the least attention to formal logic, and hold that
c or all practical purposes it is useless."
9]i895- I  Revision                                     419

influences of traditional beliefs, that I have reached the views
I have reached. . . .

     My own course not intentionally pursued, but sponta-
neously pursued may be characterized as little reading and
much thinking, and thinking about facts learned at first hand.
Perhaps I should add, that my interest all along has been mainly
in the science of Life, physical, mental and social. I hold that
the study of the science of Life under all its aspects is the true
preparation for a teacher of Ethics. And it must be the science
of Life as it is conceived now, and not as it was conceived

in past times.

    If you ask me what test you are to establish, I cannot
answer. I simply raise the question Is it necessary to estab-

lish any test ? May not the choice be decided by the evidence
furnished in each case apart from any specified standard ?

While he was at Oakhurst, South Godstone, in July,

Mrs. Leonard Courtney sent him an account of visits she

had had from two of his admirers Mr. Hector Macpher-

son and the Chinese Ambassador, Sir Chih Chen Lo

Feng-Luh, whom he had          entertained at   lunch   in June.
" Of course," he replied, " I  am interested   in your   account

of Mr. Macpherson and the Chinese Ambassador. The

hitter's opinion that I am a resurrected Confucius is amus-

ing, as is also his opinion that I ought to be a Duke."

Writing late in the year to another friend Mr. Carnegie

acknowledging a present of grouse, he remarks :

Doubtless it is one of the advantages of being a highland
laird that you can thus give gratifications to your friends ; but
I can quite believe, as you hint in your last letter, that along
with advantages there are increasing responsibilities.  It is

not only true, as Bacon says, that when a man marries he

gives hostages to fortune, but it. is also true that he does this
when he increases his belongings of every kind.

     The letter that follows, written to a lady in Geneva,
contains nothing with which the reader is not familiar.

But, besides putting the evils of governmental interference
and control very clearly, it bears witness to Spencer's life-
long consistency with regard to fundamental opinions. It
was translated into French and German and read at a

Congress in Switzerland.
420 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxv.

   To MRS. JOSEPHINE BUTLER.

                                            3 September, 1899.

   I learn with pleasure that you and some others are opposing
the adoption of coercive methods for achieving moral ends.
   Briefly stated my own views on such matters are these :
   Nearly all thinking about political and social affairs is vitiated
by ignoring all effects save those immediately contemplated.
Men, anxious to stop an evil or obtain a good, do not consider
what will be the collateral results of the governmental agencies
they employ, or what will be the remote results. They do not
recognize the fact that every new instrumentality established
for controlling individual conduct becomes a precedent for

other such instrumentalities, and that year after year philan-
thropists with new aims urge on further coercive agencies, and
that so little by little they establish a type of social organization
   a type which no one of them contemplated when he was
urging on his particular plan.
   The highest aim ever to be kept in view by legislators and
those who seek for legislation is the formation of character.
Citizens of a high type are self-regulating, and citizens who
have to be regulated by external force are manifestly of a low
type. Men, like all other creatures, are ever being moulded
into harmony with their conditions.  is
                                       If,  generation after genera-
tion, their conduct in all its details prescribed for them, they
will more and more need official control in all things. . . .
   The final outcome of the policy in favour with philan-
                                   form of society like that which
thropists and legislators  is
existed in ancient Peru, where every tenth man was an official;a

controlling the other nine where the regulation went to

the extreme of inspecting every household to see that was
well administered, the furniture in good order, and the children of
properly managed and where the effect of this universal regu-         it
   ;

lation of conduct was the production of a character such that
the enfeebled society went down like house of cards before
                                     a

a  handful of Spaniards.

   On completing the revision of the Principles                  Biology

towards the end of 1899, he at once took in hand the

preparation of a final edition of First Principles. Owing

to the number and importance of the alterations, he was

desirous that the existing translations should be replaced

as soon as possible by translations of this final edition.

When the German version was completed, Professor
Victor Carus wrote " And now once more, allow me
                          :

                                          It

                                                              a
to repeat my most cordial thanks that you allowed me

to translate your work anew.         was very great treat to
1 8 9 5 - 1 900]             Revision  42 1

me." Below this Spencer has written : " This is the

highest compliment I ever received, considering Professor
Carus's age and position." It was with no ordinary satis-

faction that, towards the end of his eightieth year, he gave
the finishing touches to the system of philosophy, on

which he had been engaged for forty years. His gratifica-

tion was enhanced by the cordial greetings from all parts
of the world which poured in upon him on his birthday

   greetings which he acknowledged in a circular written

by his own hand and lithographed :

Letters and telegrams, conveying the congratulations and
good wishes of known and unknown friends, have reached

me yesterday and to-day in such numbers that, even were
I in good health it would scarcely be practicable to write
                             I must therefore ask you, in
separate acknowledgments.
common with others, kindly to accept this general letter which,
while expressing my thanks to those who have manifested
their sympathy, also expresses my great pleasure in receiving
so many marks of it from my own countrymen and from

men of other nationalities.

     No one will deny that Spencer was entitled to look
forward to the enjoyment of undisturbed serenity now
that the task, for wwhich he had sacrificed so much, was
completed. But, ere the work of revision had been fully
accomplished, events were taking place that were to cause

him anxiety and vexation during the remaining years
of his life. Some time before the outbreak of hostilities in

South Africa he had denounced the policy that was drifting
the country into war. Whatever one's opinion may be
as to the right or the wrong of the war, one must admit

that Spencer's attitude towards it was in complete harmony
with the principles he had throughout life professed. He
was invited to sign a protest.

                  To JAMES SULLY.
                                                        10 December, 1899.
Who are the " we " ?
                             I should not like to give my name
in such a case without being made aware with whose names
mine would be joined.
Further, I think that the protest is not sufficiently strong,
and not sufficiently concise. . . . Among the facts which
should be emphasized are (1) that the outlanders were a
swarm of unwelcome intruders and had no right to complain
of the social regime into which they intruded themselves,
4 22 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxv.

since nobody asked them to stay if they did not like it. (2)
They were proved traitors trying to overturn the government
which gave them hospitality, and, as Lord Loch's evidence
shows, were long contemplating a rising and a seizure of the
government of the country. Traitors cannot put in a claim
to political power. (3) The Boers have done no more than
would inevitably have been done by ourselves if similarly
placed, and in doing which we should have regarded ourselves
as patriotic and highly praiseworthy. (4) The advocacy of
annexation is nothing more than a continuance of our practice
of political burglary. (5) We are rightly vituperated by other
nations, as we should vituperate any one of them who did
similar things, and as we are now vituperating Russia for its
policy in Finland, carried out in a much milder manner. 1

                          To MARK JUDGE.  2 January, 1900.

During the last week I have been in communication with
the Secretary of the Anti- Vaccination League, and also with
the Chairman of the South African Conciliation Committee, and
this morning I have a request from the Editor of the Speaker
to express my sympathy with the course which they are pur-
suing. In all these cases I am making a favourable response.

     I am now nearly eighty, and it is more and more clear to me
that I must cut myself off from these various distractions as
much as possible for I have still something I want to do, and
thinking this, I decide it will be better for me to decline taking

...any part in this League for Licensing Reform, even in the posi-
tion of Vice- President.  I wish you success in your efforts.

     While approving of the attitude of the Speaker towards

the war, he declined to become a regular subscriber because
its political views were "distinctly socialistic or collectivist,
if you choose so to call them, and much as I abhor war
I abhor socialism in all its forms quite as much." On

5 February the Morning Leader had a letter from him
protesting against the spirit shown by those who shouted to
the departing troops : "Remember Majuba."

                            To SIR EDWARD FRY.

                                                                          6 February, 1900.

     Popular passion, excited by political and financial agencies,
has gagged all but one of those morning papers which ex-
pressed opposition to our war policy in South Africa. The

      1 Spencer was one of the signatories of the memorial to the Czar
on behalf of the people of Finland, which His Majesty declined to
9]1895-1       Revision             423

Morning Leader is the only one that remains to give voice to
those who reprobate the war and desire that the two republics
shall maintain their independence. You will see by a copy of
the paper, which you have by this time received, that, by the
expression of sympathetic opinions, efforts are being made to
support this organ of views properly to be called Christian, in
opposition to the views of those properly to be called Pagan.

     It is not to be expected that much can be done towards
checking the war fever, but it may be hoped that by spreading
so far as may be sympathy with equitable sentiments and repro-
bating those who sneer at u unctuous rectitude," something may
be done towards preparing the way for a settlement not so
utterly inequitable as is now threatened.

     Could you help by adding some expression of your opinion
to the expressions of opinions already published ?

    A similar letter was sent to Dr. Edward Caird, Master
of Balliol College, Oxford.

TO THE RlHT HON. LEONARD COURTNEY.

                                  24 February, 1900.

I daresay you will think me rather absurd in making a
suggestion respecting your attitude towards your constituents.
There has grown up the altogether unwarrantable assumption
that a man represents that particular part of the constituency
which has elected him, and when that part of the constituency
some Conservative or Liberal Association, or what not

through whose instrumentality he was elected disapproves of
his course, it seems to be thought by them, and by the public
at large, that he is thereupon called upon to resign. But where
is there any indication, either in the constitution or in the

theory of representation, that a member of parliament repre-
sents any particular section of his constituency, any party ? So
far as I know, the idea of party is not recognized in the
representative system at all. A member of parliament repre-
...sents the constituency and the whole constituency, and not
any particular section of it.     Hence it results that, if any
Liberal or Conservative Association, or any other kind of caucus,
calls upon him in a case like the present, to resign, his fit
reply may be that as a representative of the whole constituency
he cannot even entertain the proposition to resign, until it is
shown to him that a majority of the whole constituency wishes

him to do so.
I do not know that in your case the assumption of such an
attitude would be of any advantage, since, probably, the re-

mainder of the constituency is more against you than the part
which elected you. Still, I suggest this as a general course of
conduct applicable to all cases.
                                    424

                CHAPTER XXVI.

              INORGANIC EVOLUTION.

IN the preceding chapters little has been said as to the

application of evolution to inorganic Nature. This division

was passed over in Spencer's programme "partly because,

even without  the scheme                 too extensive and partly
              it,
                                          is

                                                                                                 ;

                                                               J.

                                                                                       is
...because the interpretation of organic Nature                                                     of

more immediate importance." While most will admit the

cogency of these two reasons, many, after reading the

earlier volumes of the series, will agree with Mr. S. Mill

in desiring to see the working out of the principles of

evolution in the omitted division of the programme. Some

may even think, with Dr. David Sharp, of Cambridge, that

the application of evolution to inorganic Nature was of

more importance than the attempt to upset Professor

Weismann's theory. Be this as may, would be very
                                    if

                                          a
                                               it

                                                   it
                                                           it

                                                                                    a
                                                                                          a
perverse judgment that would regard the absence of this

division as telling against Spencer's work as                                              whole.

Objection may be made                    writer fails to accomplish

what he undertook to do. But,            can hardly be urged

against the value of what he has accomplished that he
has not done something which, for sufficient reasons,

he announced at the outset he did not propose to under-

take. To discredit Spencer's teaching, as has been done,

now because he attempted too much, and now because

he did not attempt more, does not help those who honestly

wish to arrive at just estimate of it.
It

      is,
                              a

                                 a
however, mistake to assume that Spencer did

not apply the principles of evolution to inorganic Nature.

Not only was the subject frequently in his thoughts

throughout the thirty-six years when he was writing the

Synthetic Philosophy; but even before his programme
1838-58]          Inorganic Evolution                                                     425

was issued he had made two important excursions into

inorganic Nature excursions that had no small share in

suggesting and developing his system of thought. The

purpose of this chapter is to gather together the corre-

spondence bearing upon evolution in its application to

the inorganic world. In this way a better idea will be

gained of what Spencer accomplished in this domain,

than if the subject had been dealt with incidentally, and

in piece-meal fashion, in the course of the narrative.

     The scientific topics (other than professional ones) that
first and chiefly interested Spencer, during the earlier engi-

neering period, were Astronomy and Geology the two

departments of knowledge which, when he issued his

programme in 1860, he decided to pass over, or not to

treat in detail. Letters to his father during the years

1838 to 1841 contain frequent discussions of astronomical
questions. Geology was taken up seriously in 1840, and,

during the years he was engaged on railway surveys, he

had many opportunities of acquainting himself with it at

first hand. Speculation as to the change in the Earth's

atmosphere consequent on the abstraction from it of carbon

during the deposition of carboniferous strata, took shape in

1843-44 in a paper in the Philosophical Magazine. 1 In the

same periodical for 1847 he had a paper on "The Form of
the Earth no proof of original Fluidity." 2 A theory about

nebulous matter was being worked out by the middle of

1851. He had     written to  Sir John Herschel  and                            Professor
Airy, inquiring  " whether                      why                            nebulous
                             it had been shewn

matter must take up a rotatory motion in condensing."
Their replies, so he told his father, show " that my idea is

new, so I think I have made a discovery worth publishing.

I shall write a paper for the Philosophical Magazine." He

was in no hurry, however, to rush into print ; for, though

he told his parents in 1852 that he hoped to complete it
shortly, it was laid aside for several years, owing to the

writing of the Principles of Psychology, and subsequent
ill-health. But by the spring of 1858 it began to assume
a definite shape.

1 Autobiography,             Autobiography,
                  i.,                                                          313, 546.
                                                                          i.,
                  532.
426 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvi.

                                  To HIS FATHER.

                                                                                      May, 1858.

    The Nebular Hypothesis works out beautifully. The article
will contain a great deal that is new, and will, I think, render
the argument conclusive. I have had a long talk with Dr.
Tyndall on the sundry novelties, which were based upon
principles in physics. He endorses all my conclusions : though
not prepared wholly to commit himself to them, he thinks them
rigorously reasoned, and well worth promulgating.

     Some months after the publication of the article 1 he
mentions that it " had been very favourably received every-

where. It was ascribed to Baden Powell." The early part

of 1859 was  taken up with a paper for the Universal Review,
under the           "
purpose of   title     Illogical   Geology." 2    As   the primary
             " The     Nebular    Hypothesis "  was   to prove that

the inferences drawn from the revelations of Lord Rosse's
telescope were illegitimate, so that of " Illogical Geology "

was to direct attention to the inconsistency of the reasonings

of geologists. The writing of these two articles, which

touched upon the two divisions of Inorganic Evolution as

he conceived  played an important part in the evolution
              it,

                                 I.

                                                                         is
of the scheme of philosophy, which had gradually been

growing in extent and definiteness. In the outline sketched

during the early days of 1858, the first volume represented
                                  ajid II., dealing respectively
as including, after Parts
with "The Knowable" and "The Unknowable," Part III.,
Astronomic Evolution, and Part IV., Geologic Evolution.

     Another outline of this first volume, of what he calls the

Deductive Philosophy, presents the contents of Parts III. and

IV. with more detail.

Part III.    I.The Principles of Astrogeny.
                   A  Primitive Cosmogonies.
   Chap.
               II. Priori Probabilities of Evolution.
         ,,
              III. Where are the Nebulae
                                  ?
              IV. What are the Nebulae?

                V. The Comets.
              VI. Motions of the Sun and Planets.

             VII. Specific Gravities of the Sun and Planets.

x^Autobiography, ii., 21.         - Autobiography, ii., 43.
1858-73]     Inorganic Evolution                 427

Chap. VIII. Temperature of the Sun and Planets.
  ,, IX. Our Sidereal System.

             X. The Future.

Part IV. The Principles of Geogeny.

Chap.           I. Igneous Development.

    ,,        II. Aqueous Development.

             III. Geographic Development.

             IV. Meteorologic Development.

. V. Chemical Development.

The omission of Astronomic and Geologic Evolution

from the programme issued two years later did not mean

that the inorganic world was to be entirely passed over,

but only that it would not receive the detailed treatment

accorded to Life, Mind, Society and Morality. Readers of

First Principles are aware of the course followed in the
             " The Transformation or Equivalence of
exposition.
Forces," "The Direction of Motion," and "The Rhythm
of Motion" are each exemplified, firstly, in astronomical

and secondly, in geological transformations, before their

operation in organic and super-organic transformations is

discussed. The same course is followed in the exposition

of "The Law of Evolution," "The Instability of the Homo-
ganendeo" uEsq,"uil"ibTrhaetionM.u" ltiplWicahteinontreoaftinEgffeocfts","Di"sSseoglurteiognat"ionth"e

exposition naturally follows the reverse order. Putting all

these expositions together one may obtain a general idea

of what the Principles of Astrogenv and the Principles of
Geogeny would have been like had time, energy, and know-

ledge sufficient been vouchsafed to him.
What he described as "a further development of the
doctrines of molecular dynamics " appeared in the Reader
                                     " What                     "
(19 November 1864) under the title           is  Electricity
                                                              ?

Nine years later, when writing to Dr. Youmans (12 Novem-

ber, 1873) he said :

     Since I began this letter there has dawned upon me, after
this long delay, an extension of that theory of electricity set
forth in the Reader and published in the Essays. I am busy
writing a postscript which, when it is in print, I shall submit
to Tyndall and other authorities, and, if they do not disprove
will send you copy for addition to the American ^volume.
             a
                                                                                                it,
428 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvi.

                                FROM JOHX TYXDALL.

                                                     ATHENAEUM CLUB [1873].
     I have glanced over your paper, rather than read it
critically. It shows the usual penetration ; hut will you bear
with me if I advise you not to publish it as it now stands.
Its aim is ambitious, and I frankly think it fails in its aim.

If you publish it as a speculation, not as an u explanation,"
no harm can accrue. But I think harm would accrue if it were

published in its present garb.
     I often wished to say to you that your chapters on the

Persistence of Force, etc., were never satisfactory to me. You
have taken as your guide a vague and to me, I confess, al-
together unsatisfactory book. The greater part of your volume
I consider to be of such transcendent merits, putting one's best
thoughts into the clearest language, that I feel all the more
the transition to the chapters to which I have referred. I ex-
pressed, I think, the opinion to you some time ago that they
ought to be rewritten.

    If you have considered how the disturbance of molecules

can generate attraction and repulsion at a distance, you ought

to state the result of your thought. If you have not thought
of this question, then I think you have omitted the fundamental

phenomenon of electricity.
     I am hard pressed, and therefore write briefly. You will

excuse my frankness. I certainly should grieve to see any-
thing with your name attached to it that would give the enemy
occasion to triumph.

                                To JOHX TYXDALL.

                                                                                22 December, 1873.

     I quite agree with you as to the undesirableness of pub-
lishing this postscript as it stands : indeed, I sketched it out
with the expectation that criticism would probably oblige me
to remodel it. I quite intended (but I see that I must make
the intention more clear) to put forth the hypothesis simply as
a speculation : apparently having such an amount of congruity
with physical principles as made it worth considering es-
pecially in the absence of anything like a satisfactory ex-

planation.
     I have had another letter from Clerk Maxwell, which con-

siderably startles me by its views about molecular motion.
I should like to talk to you about them. They seem to me
to differ from those which I supposed you to hold, and which
I supposed were held generally.
     T"hPaenrksistyeonuce  for  your reminder
the                         of  Force." I hope  respecting  the chapter on
approval. I am now remodelling                  to make it  worthy of your

                                 it,            and the two preceding

chapters.
1873]          Inorganic Evolution                                  429

     When sending the paper to Professor Clerk Maxwell
reference seems to have been made to a remark made to
Professor Kingdon Clifford regarding Spencer's views about
nebular condensation.

                        FROM J. CLERK MAXWELL.

                                                                                  5 December, 1873.

     I do not remember the particulars of what I said to Pro-
fessor Clifford about nebular condensation. The occasion of
it was I think a passage in an old edition of your First
Principles, and having since then made a little more acquaint-
ance with your works, I regarded it merely as a temporary
phase of the process of evolution which you have been
carrying on within your own mind. Mathematicians by
guiding their thoughts always along the same tracks, have
converted the field of thought into a kind of railway system,
and are apt to neglect cross-country speculations.

    It is very seldom that any man who tries to form a system

can prevent his system from forming round him, and closing
him in before he is forty. Hence the wisdom of putting in some
ingredient to check crystallization and keep the system in a
colloidal condition. Candle- makers, I believe, use arsenic for
this purpose. . . . But you seem to be able to retard the
crystallization of parts of your system without stopping the
process of evolution of the whole, and I therefore attach
much more importance to the general scheme than to particular
statements.

After describing several experiments, which he would

not say were inconsistent with Spencer's theory, but which

were   cvoenrytiniumeps or: ta"ntAsanId    significant,  Professor  Clerk Max-
well                                     observe that     you are   always im-

proving your phraseology I shall lay before you my notions

on the nomenclature of molecular motions." One of the
terms defined was " the motion of agitation of a molecule,"
namely " that by which the actual velocity of an individual

molecule differs from the mean velocity of the group."

On receipt of some remarks by Spencer on the word

"agitation," Professor Clerk Maxwell wrote again (17
December, 1873) :

The reason for which I use the word " agitation " to dis-
               local
tinguish the   that I  motion of          a molecule     in relation to    its"
neighbours is          think with        you that the    word u agitation

conveys in a small degree, if at all, the notion of rhythm.
430 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvi.

   If motion is said to be rhythmic when the path                                     on the
                                                             it a
whole, as much in one direction as in the opposite, then all
                                                                        is,
motion rhythmic when                                      confined within small region
            if, is
of space.
                    I
                                         it

                                                      is
   But as understand the word rythmic, implies not
                                                                                      word
...o" nalgyitaatlitoenrna"tioenx,clubduetsregularity and     periodicity, then   the  wrhat
                                            the notion of    rhythm, which      was

   meant to do.                             great scientific desideratum              a set
I           it                                                                  is
                        is

                              is

                                  aA
of words of little meaning words which mean no more than
that a thing belongs to very large class. Such words are
much needed in the uudulatory theory of light, in order to
express fully what proved by experiment, without connoting
anything which a mere hypothesis.

                                     To CLERK MAXWELL.
   I
            it                                               30 December, 1873.

                              I J.
         must confess that was taken somewhat aback by the
statement that you deliberately chose the word agitation

because negatived the notion of rhythm. For had hardly
                                                             a
anticipated the tacit denial that the relative motions of mole-
cules as wholes have rhythm.                                           I
                                                          I                If,feel fully the force of the

reason for supposing that, when molecules are irregularly                                                               ?
                                     solid, the tensions due to their mutual
aggregated into
            ;

                    I

                                  a
actions will be so various as to produce great irregularity of

motion and have, indeed, in the first part of the speculation
concerning electricity, indicated this as possible cause for

the continuity of the spectrum in solids. But, admitting this,
there seem to me two qualifying considerations.
                                                                                as shown

in the lecture you were so kind as to send me, molecules of

different weights have different absolute velocities in the
                                                          not happen that when such
gaseous state then, must
            ;
                  ;

                       if
                                of
                                          it
differently-moving molecules are aggregated into solids, their
                                            mobility will still show themselves
constitutional differences
Such constitutional differences cannot well disappear without

any results and                           they do not disappear, must there not
result characteristic differences between their motions of

agitation in the two solids they form must not the two
agitations differ in the average periodicities of the local motions
constituting them The second qualifying consideration which
            is
                        ?
occurs to me this. Though molecules, irregularly aggregated

into solid, may be expected to have motions more or less
confused by the irregularities of the tensions may we nota
     a                                                       ;
         a
                                                                      a
say that, when they are regularly aggregated into solid (as
in crystal), they will be subject to regular tensions, conducing
                                          Do not the formation and structure of
to regular motions                   ?

   crystal imply that its units are all so homogeneously con-
ditioned that they must have homogeneous motions
                                                             ?
1873-74]                      Inorganic Evolution                        431

is  ETlehcetriocriitgyin"al?  draft of the postscript to the             article "What
                              was amended in the light of
                                                                         the criticisms,

oral and written, to which it had been subjected at the

hands of Professor Tyndall, Professor Clerk Maxwell, and

others. Admitting that the hypothesis had received no

endorsements, he held that it had not been proved unten-

able. He published                        therefore, as speculation only,
          a
                                it,

                                                                     1a
adding to the postscript another postscript containing

suggestions arising out of the criticisms.

    The constitution of the Sun, which had formed the

subject of paper in the Reader early in 1865, came up

again in 1874.

                              To E. L. YOUMAXS.

                                                             16 October, 1874.

    Proctor, in the last number of the Cornhill, has been drawing
...attention to the conclusions of your astronomer Young that the
sun hollow sphere.                              His reasonings are in great
    is
         a

                                                                I
m" Ceaosnusrteituttihoen  soafmetheasSutnho"se    set forth  in my       essay on the
                                                reasonings   which       have been for

the last year past intending to amend, in respect of the particular
process by which the precipitated matters form the molten
shell. There are mechanical difficulties, named to Clifford by
Clerk Maxwell, to the mode of formation as originally described.

But, on pursuing the results of the process of precipitation into
vapour and then into metallic rain, perpetually ascending and
perpetually thickening as concentration goes on, reached
conclusion respecting formation of the shell, to which no
objection has as yet been made by the authorities with whom

  have discussed it. Apart however from this particular portion
of the hypothesis which needs amendment, Professor Young's
conception of the Sun's constitution and the progress going on
in the Sun, are essentially those which set forth.
I

                                            1a

                                                        I
                                                           A
                                                                        aI

                                                                                                                          a
    He at once set about amending his reasonings " in

respect of the particular process by which the precipitated

matters form the molten shell."                              slip proof of the

amended hypothesis                  was    sent to Professor Clerk Maxwell,
                                      he    did not " quite understand the
who, admitting                that        the hypothesis, adduced reasons
principal features              "   of

to show that "a liquid shell supported by nucleus of

less density than itself, whether solid, liquid or gaseous,

                                    Essays^ ii., 176-187.
432 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. XXVL

is essentially unstable." On Professor Clerk Maxwell's

letter (December 17, 1874) Spencer has pencilled: "This

argument at first convinced me that my hypothesis was

untenable. But subsequently the corollaries from Andrews's
investigations concerning the critical point of gases, imply-
ing that a gas might become denser than a liquid and

yet remain a gas, led me to readopt the hypothesis." 1
     This point with others is touched upon in correspond-

ence with his French translator.

                              To E. GAZELLES.

                                                                                12 May, 1875.

     I inclose impressions of some passages which will be
substituted hereafter for certain parts of the essay on the
u Nebular Hypothesis." [One of the alterations] is made as
an abandonment of an hypothesis which Professor Clerk
Maxwell has clearly proved to me is not tenable.

     Respecting your question concerning the calculation of Tait,
or rather of Sir William Thomson, I will write to you shortly,
when I have refreshed my memory about it. Meanwhile I may
say that I believe it to be wholly untenable ; for the reason that
it sets out with assumptions that are not only gratuitous, but

extremely improbable.

    20 July. I sent you the other day Huxley's address in
which he controverted the conclusions of Sir William Thomson
respecting the age of the Earth and of the Solar System. I
meant before now to have written to you, giving my own further
reasons for rejecting the inference drawn from his assumptions

        rather for rejecting his assumptions.

8 March, 1876. I referred the other day to Sir William
Thomson's paper on the solar heat, published in Macinillans
Magazine for March, 1862. The aim is to show that the Sun
cannot have been radiating heat at its present rate for anything
like the time required by the inferences of geologists. The
fallacy in his argument, which I remember to have observed
when reading, I find to be this : the calculation which lands

him in his conclusion that radiation at this rate cannot have

gone on for the required period, tacitly assumes the bulk of the
sun to have been something like what it is now ; whereas, on
the hypothesis of nebular condensation, the implication
1                                                                   that

                    i.,
                                         a
                                                               is,
for vast periods before the Sun reached his present degree of
condensation, he was slowly contracting from larger size, and
was all the while radiating heat. Helmholtz has calculated that

Essays,  164.
1874-7^]  Inorganic Evolution  433

since the time when, according to the nebular hypothesis, the
matter composing the Solar System extended to the orbit of
Neptune, there has been evolved by the arrest of sensible
motion, an amount of heat 454 times as great as that which the
Sun still has to give out. Now since a considerable part of this
concentration and radiation must have taken place during the
period in which the Sun's mass was receding inwards from the
limits of the Earth's orbit ; and, as during all the latter stages
of this period (say from the time when the Sun filled the orbit
of Mercury) we may assume that the Earth has reached its
concentrated form ; it is clear that, during all the remaining
period of the Sun's contraction, the Earth must have been
receiving its radiations, though in these remote periods the
radiations must have been far less intense, yet since they
emanated from a relatively enormous surface subtending at the
earth a relatively immense angle, the total amount of radiation
received by the Earth may have been as great or greater.
Remembering that, were the Sun double its present diameter,
it would need to radiate at but one-fourth its present rate to
give us the same amount of heat, and that, did it subtend an
angle of 5^ degrees, one hundredth of its present radiation
for a given portion of surface would suffice ; we see it to be
not only possible, but on the nebular hypothesis quite certain
that the Earth has been receiving light and heat from the Sun,
adequate for purposes of life, for a period immensely greater
than is inferable when the calculation is made on the assumption
that the Sun's bulk has been during the time something like the

same.

     The dispute between the physicists and the geologists
as to the age of the Earth and the Solar System has changed
its aspect during recent years. Until a few years ago the
temperature of the Sun was supposed to be due solely to
concentration of gaseous matter and the fall of meteoric
stones. Sir William Thomson estimated that the Sun

has been giving out heat for a period of some twenty
or thirty millions of years, and that geologists must limit
their time demands accordingly. But recent discoveries in
regard to radio-activity point to the possession by the Sun
of other sources of heat. The duration of the solar heat

may therefore be indefinitely extended extended at any
rate as far as is necessary to satisfy the geologist, with his
indefinite, and, some think, not very modest, claim of from
one to five or six thousand millions of years, as the period
during which the Earth has been sufficiently cool to permit
of the appearance of living things on it.

          28
434 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvi.

     Across a correspondence with Dr. Charlton Bastian,
Spencer has written : " This refers to the fact that Lockyer's
speculations concerning the compound nature of the ele-
ments, as shown by the changes of the spectra, were pur-
suant on a remark I made to him expressing that belief."

                    To H. CHARLTON BASTIAN.

                       25 November, 1878.

     One Sunday afternoon some four or five years ago, you and
I called together upon Lockyer. . . . We chatted with him for

some time in his laboratory, and our conversation turned upon
Spectrum Analysis. . . . Have you any recollection of this con-
versation ? and can you recall any opinion which I expressed

respecting the implications of spectrum phenomena what
I thought was to be necessarily inferred from the more or less

numerous lines contained in the spectrum of each element, and
what I thought was to be inferred from that transformation
...in the spectrum of an element, which takes place under certain
physical conditions ?  As we walked away something passed
respecting the bearings of what I had been saying upon the
views contained in that work [Bastian's Beginnings of Life,
recently published], leading to the remark that had you enter-

tained the view, you might have begun your exposition some-
what further back.

                          FROM H. CHARLTOX BASTIAN.

                                                                       27 November, 1878.

     I recollect the walk quite well to which you refer, our call
upon Lockyer, and that there was a conversation in his labora-
tory in reference to the different spectra yielded by so-called
elements, under different conditions of temperature, etc. I
know that Lockyer told us about some of his recent results,
and that you expressed some opinions in interpretation of the
evidence, and concerning the transformations of the spectra
to which he referred but, unfortunately, beyond that I cannot
go. The details have slipped from my memory.

     I recollect the conversation afterwards to which you refer,
and know that the general conclusions from the conversation
with Lockyer favoured the view that the so-called elements
were themselves products of evolution.

     This view of the elements came up again some twelve

years after.

                              FROM H'ENRY CUNYNGHAME.
                                                                                30 May, 1891.

     A short time ago, being in the company of Mr. Crookes,

he was good enough to explain to me his theory as to the com-
position of the elements, which he thinks have been formed
1878-91]             Inorganic Evolution                                        435

by a process of evolutional segregation. He has devoted some
years to experiments upon this question, and the behaviour
of the rare earths, such as yttrium under the spectroscope,
strongly confirms these views. For by long continued fractiona-

tion, different sorts of yttrium seem to present themselves,
differing, as different breeds (say) of cows differ from one
another. Of course the persistence of type, when once deve
loped makes it practically impossible to transmute metals, just
as, to use his own simile, you cannot, without returning to some
primitive type, make a cow into a horse.

     I said that I thought these experiments would be highly
interesting to you as, in one of your works this view had been
clearly foreshadowed. Mr. Crookes said that was so, and he
had quoted your words in several of his lectures. 1

On looking through Mr. (now Sir William) Crookes's
                      Spencer wrote     of               them  to Mr.
"paymiepldhlientgs,  verifications of  the               view  I have   Cunynghame as
                                                                       long entertained,

and as tending to show how much more completely evo-

lutionary the genesis of compound matter has been than I

supposed. It is marvellous to trace in this field a parallel to

the genesis of varieties and species." And to Mr. Crookes
he wrote (8 June) : "Your views especially in respect of
the development of varieties and species carry out the

evolutionary idea in this field very much further than I have

ever dreamt it could be carried." It is doubtless true that

if First Principles were to be written in the light of recent

advances in physics and chemistry, it would in many

important respects differ from the book as we know it even

in its final         form. At     the  rate              of progress of recent  "yetahrast
a book on            physics, it  has  been               said, cannot appear

is not already out of date a week after the author returns

his proofs." Spencer was aware that his outline of Inor-

ganic Evolution, had reference to the knowledge of the

time and was subject to modification with every increase
                         Granted that "he did not
in our knowledge.                                                      fully nor
always rightly utilize  the chemistry and physics of                   his time "

(and who has ever done so he has the incontestible merit
1

                                                    ?),
of having foreshadowed some of the most striking chemical

and physical discoveries of recent years. The theory that

the so-called elements are products of evolution was both

       Also in his address as President of the Chemical Section of the
British Association of 1886.
436 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvi.

novel and startling in the seventies. Now-a-days it may
be said to be an accepted doctrine. Not only are the atoms

no longer considered indivisible, but estimates are made

of the number of corpuscles or electrons contained in a

so-called atom ; and descriptions are given of the struggle
for existence continually going on among the communities

of corpuscles, ending in the overthrow of the unstable and
the continuance of the stable. Like species in the organic
world, the atoms are evolutionary products, the result of

competition and survival of the fittest.

    Writing in July 1880, to Dr. Youmans, he mentions
having met Mr. Moulton.

     He told me that there had lately been made a discovery
which tended to verify my hypothesis with regard to the
interior constitution of celestial bodies : the discovery being
that made by a Professor Ramsay of Bristol, 1 who, it turns out,
is a very competent experimenter. He contributed a paper to
the Royal Society, giving results respecting the transition from
the gaseous to the liquid state, in which he made it manifest
that, at the stage of pressure in which the gas becomes equally
dense with the liquid, the line of demarcation of the two
gradually becomes hazy and vanishes into a fog, and that,
eventually, the liquid and the gas mingle so as to be no longer
distinguishable. And Moulton drew7 my attention to the fact
that this makes quite feasible, and in fact almost necessary,
my supposition with regard to the gaseous nuclei of the Sun
and planets. The result of this will be that I shall have to
alter afresh that passage in the essay on the nebular hypothesis
which I erased, and shall have to re-instate part of it and
modify the remainder so as to incorporate with its arguments*

this revelation.

     No article of Spencer's was subjected to so many
revisions as that on "The Nebular Hypothesis." During

January and the first half of February, 1883, he embraced
the opportunity of a new edition of the Essays being called

for to subject it to further revision.

                    To E. L. YOUMANS.

                                                   8 March, 1883.

     At  length  I  "sNenedbulyaoru  the portions  of the  revision of  the
article  on the                      Hypothesis."   They   have given   me

         1 Now Sir William Ramsay, of University College, London.
1880-90]            Inorganic Evohition                                               437

an immensity of trouble, and I am heartily glad they are out

of hand.
     The trouble has been in part caused by the fact that I have

subjected them to various criticisms, and on minor points have
taken advantage of these. As a result I feel quite safe as to
the legitimacy of the speculation. Of course it is a case of
Speculation versus Speculation ; and the physical arguments
being admitted to be tenable, the thing has as good a basis as
can well be given to it.

    Towards the end of 1889 he again revised and added
to the article, before incorporating it in the final edition

of the Essays, being assisted by Mr. W. T. Lynn, of the

Greenwich Observatory. Copies were sent for criticism to

Lord Rayleigh, Sir William Thomson, Dr. Isaac Roberts,

Lord Crawford, Mr. Huggins, and to Professors Dewar,

Darwin, Williamson, Frankland, and Tyndall. Writing in

reply on January    i, 1890,  Sir William Thomson said                                that
he felt quite lost            tried " to think of anything                            that
                    when he

can be imagined as a primitive condition of matter.

Of antecedent conditions we may freely reason, and with

fairly sure judgment. But of a condition which can come,

under known law, from no antecedent, or of a chaos which

existed through infinity of past time till a declension of

atoms initiated the evolution of kosmos, I can form no

imagination. Yet we seem to require a primitive condition
                                                                              he had " been
of matter." Whenever he had thought of                            3

led to think  omf uatntceor.m" bi"neBdutseapsasrautme inagtomthsis    is it,as   the  primitive
condition of                                                                 to   be  the case,

we see by perfectly definite calculations, that the heat of

...chemical combination from the condition of detached
atoms to the actual state of matter                                           very small in

comparison with that due to gravity."

                  To SIR WILLIAM THOMSON.

                                                                  Jan tuny, 1890.

I       am very much obliged by your letter of yesterday, giving
me your criticism in such clear detail. Let me, while thanking

you, express my regret that should have entailed upon you
                              I

so much trouble.  II  had not supposed that you would write

so fully, or my conscience would scarcely have let me write
to you at all, for should not have liked to intrude so much

upon the time of one to whom time      is  so precious, knowing
43^ Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvi.

as I do by experience how terribly correspondence displaces

matters of much importance.

     I quite follow and fully appreciate the drift of your remarks,
and more especially perceive that which I have not before

recognized the relatively small amount of heat evolved by
chemical combinations among the ultimate units of matter,

in comparison with the ' heat evolved by gravitation. It is

clear that the amount of molecular motion possessed by each
of such ultimate units must be transcendently great, before the
quantity of motion lost by unions among them can be com-
parable in amount to the quantity of motion lost in the course

of the journey to their common centre of gravity. Still, I sup-
pose, one may infer that, if preceding unions of such kind had
generated a high temperature in the nebulous mass, at a time
when it filled the orbit of Neptune, a considerable increase
in the time required for concentration into the present solar
mass would be implied.

     I am much obliged by the copy of the paper which at
your request was sent to me by your secretary. I perceive
that it contains much matter of interest to me. A good part
of it will I fear lie out of the sphere of my comprehension ;
my mathematics, never very extensive, having become rusty.

     Some years before he had urged  Professor  Tyndall, by
way of change of work and scene, to  " take up  the general

question of the condition of the Earth's interior. Recently,

the numerous earthquakes and eruptions in various and

remote parts of the Earth, sundry of them nearly or quite

simultaneous, seem to me to be quite irreconcilable with

the Thomsonian view that the Earth's interior is as rigid

as steel. Further contraction of this rigid mass, the only

possible cause assignable by Thomson, appears to me to be

one quite incapable of explaining the facts."

                    To J. W. JUDD.             23 June, 1890.

I recently read with much interest the report given in
N" aCthueremicoafl                to the Chemical Society on the
                    your lecture  Rocks under Mechanical Stresses."
                     Changes in
tsEhwsepeel"lcviuaoplllcyaannwidcasginlatIussmsetkrsnucocekw,"nbyaasndtuhieathreapktaar"nagitthreae"ph"bwrowiwlhln,icwhghlaessntsatehesejeactttehedad,t
from Krakatau, during the great eruption of 1883, if heated,
increases to many times its original bulk, and passes into a
substance which, macroscopically and microscopically, is indis-
tinguishable from the pumice thrown out in such vast quantities

during that great eruption."
1890]                           Inorganic Evolution                                              439

     I am reminded, by this, paragraph, of certain conclusions
concerning volcanic eruptions which I reached after an excur-

sion up Vesuvius during the eruption of 1868. Inclosed is
a passage written some years ago, briefly setting forth these
conclusions. Though not named in this interpretation (which
is simply a note appended to the account of the excursion) 1
the character of pumice-stone had occurred to me as one of

the evidences, since the liberation of water and its assumption
of the gaseous state under diminishing pressure would, besides
producing the effects above described, produce in many cases
masses of vesicular substance. It matters not to the hypo-
thesis whether the contained water is mechanically distributed
only, or whether it is water of crystallization, or water chemi-
cally combined. In any of these cases, if it assumes the
gaseous state the effects will be of the general nature described.
     But my more immediate purpose in writing to you is to
ascertain what is now regarded as the most feasible interpreta-
tion of such vast catastrophes as that of which Krakatau was
the scene. On glancing at the summary of conclusions con-
tained in the report of the committee appointed to investigate
        find to my surprise that the eruption or explosion \vas
a it,

   I

                             a
ascribed to the intrusion of the sea the implication being
                                             :

                                                    a

                                                                                              ?
that action of large body of water on large body of lava
would generate an adequate force. Is this probable Such
co-operation would be limited to the surface of contact of the
water and the lava. How could the evolved steam, quickly
checked in its genesis by the chilling and solidification of the
adjacent molten matter, move so vast a mass. In the first

place how the entrance of sufficient water to be accounted
?

              is
for Its entrance could be effected only by pressure greater
                                                     a

than the pressure of the body of the lava, part of which

extended above sea level. Considering the relative specific
gravities of the two, such an intrusion would be unaccount-
able, even in the absence of greater hydrostatic pressure
on the side of the lava. In the second place, apart from
mechanical obstacles, cannot see how intrusion and spread
a If,of the water, taking an appreciable interval of time, could have
the consequence supposed. The probability appears rather
                                      1to be that, by the steam first generated, local fissures would
be formed, allowing of escape and preventing the requisite
                             is

                         I
accumulation of steam, even could sufficient quantity be
                                             a
evolved.                                        a

       on the other hand, we suppose               state of things like

that implied by the above hypothesis and implied, too, by

certain results of the researches you have summarized, we
have force that both adequate and of the kind required

                                Autobiography, ii., 181, nole.p.
44O Life of Herbert Spencer [ CHAP - xxvi.

to account tor the various effects. On this hypothesis, the

molten matter within the volcano, forming in the midst of its

cone a column of, say, several thousand feet high, contains
water which can assume the gaseous state only towards the

upper part of the molten column, where the pressure is
relatively moderate. Suppose that, at some place towards the
lower part of the cone, some considerable area of its side has
been thinned away by contact with the contained lava ; and
that, instead of emitting through a fissure a small stream of lava,

as commonly happens, it suddenly gives way and collapses
over, say, many acres, what must happen ? Everywhere
throughout the lava which rushes forth, the water and carbonic
acid, relieved from pressure, become gaseous. The column of

lava, extending high up the cone, suddenly falls perhaps a
thousand or two feet, and relieves, from the greater part of the
immense pressure it was subject to, the entire body of lava
which filled the lower part of the volcano. The water and
carbonic acid, imprisoned in every part of
                                                 are liberated
a
                                                                         it,

                                                                                                                                                                        ;
and mass of matter, of perhaps half-a-mile cube, suddenly

explodes.
All the effects produced appear to be natural consequences.

Once being ruptured, the sides of the cone, subject to the
tremendous force of the escaping gases, would be likely to
collapse and be in large measure blown away. Those parts
of the molten matter which, not being very far below the
crater, had parted with considerable portions of their water
and carbonic acid in the shape of ascending and exploding
bubbles, would, when wholly freed from pressure, expand in
but moderate degrees, and so would form vesicular masses

of pumice-stone, which, ejected in large quantities, would cover
neighbouring regions, as the sea was covered round Krakatau.
Further, the lower portions of the lava, which, subject to high
pressure, had, until the moment of the explosion, retained all
their water and carbonic acid would, when these were suddenly
changed into gases, explode in such manner as to dissipate
their solid substances in small fragments, down to minuteI

                                is
                                              a
particles. Whence would result enormous volumes of dust,
such as were produced by the Krakatau eruption and so widely

pervaded the atmosphere.

Probably had not other occupations prevented me from
being au conrant with geological speculation
                                                 might have
                                                 I

                                                             ;
learnt that kindred interpretations had been given but not
having met with such, am prompted by the bearings of your

late lecture to inquire what  the present state of opinion

on the matter.

     In answer to the enquiry as to the present state of:
opinion, Professor Judd wrote (25 June, 1890)
1890-95]  Inorganic Evolution  441

     While a few geologists still maintain that Volcanic Eruptions
are produced by the penetration of masses of water to highly
heated rocks many, and I think the majority following the
late Mr. Poulett Scrope, hold that the gradual disengagement
of water-gas and other gases in the midst of a molten mass (as

the pressure is continuously relieved by each ejection) are the
really efficient cause in a volcanic outburst.

     In 1894 he thought of again calling in question the
calculations as to the age of the Earth, made by Sir William
Thomson (afterwards Lord Kelvin).

                              To T. H. HUXLEY.

                                                                                       1 October, 1894.

     Has anything of late been said apropos of the controversy
between yourself and Lord Kelvin concerning the age of the
Earth ? I am about to send for his volume of republished
essays, but my impression, though a vague one, is that some
of his data are inadmissible. I fancy that he is rather famous
for reasoning mathematically from assumptions which are of
a questionable kind, and then affirming positively the truth
of his conclusion ; and the world at large have that super-
stition in regard to mathematicians that they accept as a matter
of course a conclusion mathematically reached, forgetting that
its validity depends upon the truth of the data.

                              FROM T. H. HUXLEY.

                                                                                       3 October, 1894.

      Kelvin and I have made no progress that I see. It is as
much as I can do to get him to understand that the fact of
evolution being proved by fossil remains, the time it may
have taken is a question of quite secondary importance.

     This information was asked for in view of a letter for
Nature on "The Cooling of the Earth," which he wrote
in the beginning of 1895, Mr. (now Sir) George H. Darwin
being consulted. The letter, which was immediately with-
drawn lest it should provoke a controversy, was as follows :

     One who is quite incompetent to criticize a chain of high
mathematical reasoning may be not incompetent to form an
opinion concerning the validity of the premises from which
the reasoning sets out. Such premises may be entirely non-
mathematical, and, if so, the mathematician cannot claim special
authority for them : his assumptions remain open to criticism
44 2 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvi.

by others than mathematicians.    Thus looking at the matter,
I venture to make a suggestion
Lord Kelvin and the question      respecting the calculation of
Professor Perry.                  at issue between him and

The reasoning of the one and the criticism of the other are
concerned exclusively with processes which have gone on within
the body of the Earth. In the one case, a certain interior con-
stitution is assumed, and from the rate of increasing tempera-
tures at increasing depths below the surface, an inference is
drawn respecting the time which has been occupied in cooling.
In the other case, a question is raised as to the validity of the
assumptions in regard to the Earth's interior constitution, and
a consequent scepticism about the inferences drawn is ex-

pressed. But, in both cases, it appears to be assumed that
the condition of things outside the Earth's body has all along
been the same as no\v. It is assumed that whatever may have
been the past temperature of the Earth's mass and of its solid
or liquid surface, there have been the same facilities for the
escape of its heat into space as there are at present. Must this
assumption be accepted as beyond doubt ? Are we not
warranted in demurring to it ? May we not even conclude
that it is far from being true ?

Since the existing heat of the Earth, and that much greater
heat which the argument supposes it once to have had, are

not otherwise accounted for, it might be contended that the

nebular hypothesis (or the hypothesis of dispersed matter in
some form), which alone yields an explanation, is tacitly as-
sumed ; and it might be fairly held that, if we are to go back

upon the nebular hypothesis (or the hypothesis of dispersed
fragments) at all, we must go back upon it altogether. Passing

over, as not immediately relevant, the early gaseous state (either
primordial or produced by collision), and coming at once to the
condition in which the elements now mainly composing the
Earth's crust were unoxidized, the inference might be that

the uncombined oxygen and other gases must at that time

have constituted a very voluminous atmosphere, and that the
escape of heat through such an atmosphere, especially if it
contained any compounds having the form of condensed
vapours, must have been extremely slow. But without going
back thus far, sufficient reason may be found for a demurrer

to the current conclusion.

Let us grant the assumption made that the Earth's body
has all along consisted of solid matter, if not such as we now
know, yet akin to it in respect of density and conducting power.
Evidently the inference drawn from the observed gradient of
increasing temperature as we descend, itself implies the belief

that the matter of the surface was once, if not at as high a

temperature as the interior, still at a high temperature.
1895]  Inorganic Evolution                                                                                                        443

Suppose \ve go back to a time when its temperature was
152C. At that temperature water boils under a pressure of
live atmospheres (four plus the normal). The implication is
that maintenance of the Earth's water, or rather part of

in liquid form on the Earth's surface, necessitated the
it,
        a

            a

                                                                                                         :

                                                                           is
existence of a quantity of aeriform water equivalent to more
than hundred feet of liquid water that to say, assuming
the mean pressure of 2\ atmospheres, the stratum of steam
must have been over 70,000 feet deep, or more than 13 miles
   an estimated depth which, taking into account the great
expansion and indeiinite limit of the outer part, would be much

less than the actual depth. Even supposing this vast mass of

water to have existed as transparent gas, the escape of heat into

space must have been immensely impeded the absorption of
a
                      a
                       a

                                               It

                                                                 it
                                                                                                                               :
radiant heat by the vapour of water being so great. But the _
water could not have wholly existed could not have mainly

existed as transparent gas.  must in large measure have
existed as dense cloud of vast depth. The implication seems
to be that, next to the heated surface of the Earth, there was

transparent stratum, but that above came an opaque stratum
of far greater thickness, at the outer limit of which went on
condensation into rain. Under such circumstances the escape

of heat must have been effected by convection-currents, ascend-
ing, expanding, falling in temperature, precipitating at the peri-
phery, and there parting with heat into space. Must we not
conclude that during this period the cooling of the Earth went
on at rate relatively small
a

                                                               ?
                                                                                           ;
During stages thus exemplified the changes in the Earth's
crust, at first of igneous origin only, would begin to be com-

plicated by others of aqueous origin and the geological pro-
cesses which have brought about its present state would be

initiated. But, manifestly, throughout the enormous period
required for the tolerably complete deposition of the water,
and the clearing of the air from its vast stratum of cloud, the
rate of escape of heat would be still relatively small, and
would go on only slowly increasing, until there there was                                                                         a
reached some such escape as that which now takes place
through an air often cloudless, and at most times only moder-                                                                            It it
ately charged with water. During this era, the geologic changes
would be actively proceeding, and there would be time for the
                                                                                              time to which the
deposit of vast series of azoic strata
is

    A

                     a
                                          a
                                                                        it,

                                                                                a
present gradient of internal temperature gives no clue.
       long and complicated series of biologic changes would

become possible after the temperature had fallen to 100 C.

true that though some forms of Protozoa can exist at that
                      little above                                                            we may not infer that
temperature, or even

therefore life might then have commenced, for the agency of
light may have been lacking. Though, with seas at tern-
it,444 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvi.a                     is it is
                                             a
          a itperature of 212 F., the stratum of cloud may not have been
                      ifso dense as to prevent the passage of some light though
the darkness may not have been as great as that which exists at
the bottom of the ocean, where nevertheless there is a large
amount of life, not only of Protozoa, but of Mctasoa considerably
elevated in type yet it may be contended that, as the life at
the bottor of the ocean is dependent on nutritive matter
present in sea-water, which has somewhere and at some time
resulted from the decomposition of carbonic acid by chlorophyll
with the aid of light, we cannot assume that light was not
essential. Still the inference may fairly be that when the
process of cooling from 212 u own wards had gone so far that
the universal cloud allowed a certain amount of light to pass,
life became possible, and that biologic changes might have
commenced at a time when the cooling process was not going
on at anything like its present rate, and might have gone
through many of their earlier stages before anything like the
present rate was reached.

    If it should be said, as seems possible, that the inference

from the gradient of internal temperature stands by itself, and
may be held valid without regard to changes in the Earth's
atmosphere, this reply may be made : Let us assume that the
mass of the Earth once had an absolutely non-conducting
envelope. Its temperature would then be the same at the
centre and the surface, and there would be no thermal data
from which its age could be inferred : nothing would negative
the inference that it had so existed for an infinite time. Now,
suppose the absolutely non-conducting envelope taken away
and the Earth left bare. The cooling then commenced would,
in course of time, produce a gradient of temperatures analogous
to that which is found existing. But the data furnished by this
gradient would give no clue whatever to the duration of the
pre-existing period, throughout which the escape of heat was
prevented. Any inference drawn as to age would be delusive.
And if this must be admitted in the case of a sudden change
from absolute prevention of radiation to absolute permission
of then must be admitted that gradual change from great
prevention to small prevention will also vitiate the inference.
The observed gradient when the obstacle to radiation small
will be delusive, supposed applicable to time when the
obstacle to radiation was great.

     To state the case briefly in figurative language the Earth
had once very thick blanket its blanket has in the course of
immense epochs gradually thinned away and hence would
seem that an estimation of its age from thermal data, which
assumes its present thin blanket to have always existed, open

to grave doubt to say the least.
                          ;
                                                         ;
                 Inorganic Evolution         445

His last contribution to the Nebular Hypothesis was

made in 1900, when preparing the final edition of First

Principles. When writing section 182^ [p. 484] he was in
correspondence with Dr. Isaac Roberts, whose Photographs
of Stars, Star-clusters, and Nebula; he found very instructive.
A month or two after the issue of this edition of First

Principles he returned to the subject in a short paper on
" The Genesis of Gaseous Nebulae," which he intended to

be added as Appendix D. 1
                          to the Editor of
     In a short  letter                      the Fortnightly Review
(April, 1900)            Professor ^'Ward's   Rejoinder," Spencer
                 on "

thus refers to the criticism arising out of the omission of

Inorganic Evolution from detailed treatment in the Synthetic

Philosophy :

     He continues to harp upon the fact that the two volumes
treating of Inorganic Evolution were omitted by me ; insisting
that the fabric of conclusions drawn is vitiated by the omission.
Observe the alternatives implied by him. Execution of the
works dealing with Organic and Super-organic Evolution was
thought by most to be impossible, and if preceded by works
dealing with Inorganic Evolution would have been quite
impossible. But in the absence of the part dealing with
Inorganic Evolution the rest, according to Professor Ward,
lacks "adequate foundations" and is valueless. Thus, it was
useless to try the one course ; it was useless to pursue the
other ; therefore, nothing should have been attempted. It was
not allowable to leave the earliest stages hypothetical ; and,
beginning with the chemical elements as we know them,
to trace out later stages of evolution as conforming to one law.
And then, when it was pointed out that the gap was not
wholly vacant, but that (in addition to the sketch of Inorganic
Evolution in First Principles) five sets of evidences I had given

implied that the chemical elements have been evolved [Essays,
     155-9], these are cavalierly passed over as having been set

forth in three pages of u fugitive essay."
i.,

     2'

                                  it
                                           a

                                                                  a

                                                                                                                        :2
                                                                                                                                                                              :
      See edition of 1904, p. 473.
       Fugitive, in the sense of being review-article, but not otherwise
not fugitive, since contained disproofs of the belief then current among
astronomers, but now abandoned, that the nebulae are remote galaxies
(see Proctor's Old and New Astronomy, p. 726) not fugitive, since the
conclusion drawn respecting the Sun's photosphere (at variance with
conclusions then held) was, two years after, verified in chief measure by
the discoveries of Kirchoff and Bunsen.
                             446

                   CHAPTER XXVII.

                       HIS LAST BOOK.

                   (July, 1900 April, 1902.)

AT the age of eighty, and with the purpose of his life

achieved, Spencer had established an indisputable claim to

complete mental repose during the few remaining years.

But, as had been his wont, ere the work was completed

on which he was engaged, he was planning another book.

In September, 1899, he wrote to Mr. Appleton, of New

York, that he wished to have the revision of First Principles
out of hand " because I want to devote myself to some

further work. I have still a little energy left, and still some

things to write, which will, I think, make a volume not

unlikely to be popular." As he wrote to a correspondent

in the  following  "  year,  mental     occupation had     become a
second  nature.              difficult  after fifty years  of writing
                      It is

to emancipate oneself from the habit. Life would be too

dreary were the setting-down of ideas brought to a sudden

rest."

Had he reflected he would have seen that there was

little ground to fear that time would hang heavy on his

hands. The widespread, varied, and prolonged influence

he had exerted afforded a guarantee that the remaining

years of his life would be well filled with the interests his

writings and his personality had created or fostered. His

characteristic impatience with intellectual error, moral

delinquency, or remediable physical evil, would, despite

good resolutions to keep out of the fray, continue to plunge

him unwittingly into the thick of the fight. Correspond-

ence, never ligfyt, had also to be reckoned with. Many of

his correspondents were personally unknown ; and not a

few of them, though ostensibly anxious enquirers for
I9OO-O2J  His Last Book                                447

information, were in reality only common-place autograph
hunters. Besides begging letters and applications for inter-

views, there was a continuous stream of requests for photo-
graphs, autographs, mottoes, sentiments ; for advice in the
bringing-up of children, on the organization of schools, on
the management of debating societies ; for expressions of
his matured opinions on all manner of topics, ranging from
the industrial situation in New Zealand to divorce in Italy.

The octogenarian was expected not only to favour authors
with an authoritative judgment on their books, but to justify
this doctrine and to explain that doctrine contained, or sup-
posed to be contained, in one or other of his own writings,
extending over half a century. Mr. Andrew Lang says that

bores fall into well-defined categories, and that a general
lithographed reply should be framed for each category.
Spencer had for years adopted some such measure of

relief : his lithographed or printed forms having in some

cases a space at the end for a sentence dealing with any
special feature of the communication replied to. But Mr.

Lang admits that it is not so easy as it seems to devise
proper replies to some correspondents without employing
profane language. From help of this kind Spencer was
constitutionally and on principle debarred. 1 To certain

requests the only suitable course was to make no reply.
What could he say, for example, to the members of a
literary institution in India, who asked for a present of all
his books ? How was it possible to write a satisfactory
answer to a Hindu, absolutely unknown to him, and with-
out credentials, whose business had been ruined by the
famine, and who asked for a loan of ^200 ? How could
he, with his dread of visitors, give a favourable reply to
a young Syrian who wished to spend the summer with
him : " To accompany you in your daily walks, to hear
what you speak, to observe how you act in all the common
affairs of life " ? While ignoring without compunction the

general autograph hunter, he was always willing to send
his autograph or photograph to friends. The claims of
kinship, even though distant, were responded to, as in the
case of a great-granddaughter of his uncle John, to whom,
though he had never before heard of her, he sent three

          1 See however, Autobiography,  i.,  p. 486.
448 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvu.

autographs for her three children. Even bearers of the
same name, without any bond of kinship, were occasionally

favoured by these small attentions.

In addition to the customary requests from editors for

articles, or paragraphs, he had in these later years to meet
scfiporseuttocnisapeslalernrliefdaoqmrue"ethnssettosmFsoueefgdgeFebresardtiteeeindfragtembCdyeoslssoApanugeiseectisraall"oiaef vaet;cntotthsone.gwroarptFiteuoenlarintoigeonxnao"mf Tapthnhleede,
Guiding Principle of Mankind in the Twentieth Century;"
" to rewrite
from your      for the common  ;  p"eotpole                  these  two    quotations
              admirable works                               answer    the   question :

" What is the chief  d?a"ngteor,sesnodcia"l             or   political, that confronts
the coming century                                      a   brief New Century mes-
sage to English-speaking women                           "  ; to name his favourite

author, which of this author's books he liked best, and his

reason for the choice ; to join in a symposium dealing with
stFhiooeunrtuohltfimoyfaotJueurlysoenptuitnlmeiombneernrte" gsianormdiSenotghuitnhPgeaAincfertihcaeamw;oantygosotfwamrinteenex"fpor;rest-oa
contribute towards a review of the year 1901, an article on
" The Parliament of Man, the Federation of the World
to what extent do the Events of the year 1901 foreshadow
tthoeexRpereasliszahtiiosnopoinf iotnhisonId"eaLlordin  the Twentieth Century";
                                                        Rosebery's letter announc-

ing his ' Definite Separation ' from the Liberal Leader."
Not only did the infirmities of age negative compliance with
such requests, but the very idea of writing on a text pre-
scribed by others was one which he never could entertain.

The place selected for the summer was the Rectory at

Bepton, just under the Downs, to the south of Miclhurst in

Sussex. " It was," writes Mr. Troughton, "a most charming

spot, just the sort of place, in fact, to appeal to a man so
passionately fond of the country as Mr. Spencer was.

             It was here, amid this delightful Sussex scenery
that he pondered over ' Ultimate Questions ' and put into
words the reflection which had more than once occurred
                     crept on apace ' Shall I
to him as old age    by the song of the thrush.'                    ever   again  be
awakened at dawn                                                    "l

              1 Facts and Comments, p. 202.
1900-02]  His Last Book  449

     Letter writing was easier for him than personal discus-
sion : for this, if for no other, reason that he could choose
his time better. Animated conversation, as years went on,
more and more upset him. Insomnia became more per-
sistent ; yet, so sound was his constitution, that his medical

attendant remarked that "old age had scarcely touched

him." The restrictions on personal intercourse made him
all the more keenly alive to written expressions of sym-
pathy. Thus he acknowledges congratulations .from the
South Place Ethical Society in July, 1900.

     Declining years have their pleasures as well as their pains,
and among the pleasures may be named expressions of sym-
pathy, such as those contained in the address you send me on
behalf of the South Place Ethical Society. Many, who have
spent their lives in the development of their ideas, have not
had the satisfaction of meeting with recognition. Only after
their deaths have their ideas been appreciated. I have been
more fortunate, and, having lived long enough to complete my
work, have also lived long enough to see that it has not been
without its effect. Thank you for your kind words, and for
the expression of your good wishes.

     The book he was writing clearly shows how deeply his
soul had been stirred by the war in South Africa and the

policy that led to it. Probably no political event in the
whole course of his life moved him so profoundly. " I

am ashamed of my country," was his frequent remark.
Liberals equally with Tories were, in his opinion, respon-
sible for the deplorable condition into which the country
had drifted. For this, as well as for other reasons, he

declined to join the League of Liberals against Aggression.

                                 To A. M. SCOTT.
                                                                   26 July, 1900.

     I do not desire to be classed among those who are in these
days called Liberals. In the days when the name came into
use, the Liberals were those who aimed to extend the freedom
of the individual versus the power of the State, whereas now
(prompted though they are by desire for popular welfare),
Liberals as a body are continually extending the power of the
State and restricting the freedom of the individual. Every-
where and always I have protested against this policy, and
cannot now let it be inferred that I have receded from my
opinion.

        29
45O Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvu.

     Nor did he desire to be classed with the party that had

seceded from the Liberals. In June, 1901, he instructed his
secretary to write to the editor of one of the London papers :

     When the Liberal Unionists seceded they were never weary
of declaring that in all questions save one the Home Rule
question they remained Liberals ; and so long as this question
was prominent they were entitled to stick to the name. But
things have changed since then, and their raison d'etre as
' Unionists ' has long since disappeared. . . . They have now
nothing in common with the Liberals and everything in
common with the Tories. Then why not . . . invariably call
them Conservatives or Tories ?

            TO MONCURE D. CONWAY.

                               15 August, 1900.

Waves of human opinion and passion are not to be arrested
until they have spent themselves. You appear to think, as I
used to think in earlier days, that mankind are rational beings
and that when a thing has been demonstrated they will be
            Everything proves the contrary. 1 A man is a
convinced.

bundle of passions which severally use his reason to get grati-
fication, and the result in all times and places depends on what
passions are dominant. At present there is an unusual re-
surgence of the passions of the brute. Still more now than

a generation ago, men pride themselves, not on those faculties
and feelings which distinguish them as human beings, but on
those which they have in common with inferior beings pride

themselves in approaching as nearly as they can to the character
of the bull-dog.

                         To WILFRID SCAWEN BLUXT.

                                                                                   5 September 1901.

    When is this dreadful state of things to end ? I hope that
there may come a severe financial crisis, for nothing but the
endangering of their personal interests will' open the eyes of
the war party.

     7 October. You are doubtless rejoicing, as I am, that the
aspect of affairs is black for the Government and for the
country. A little pressure on the market, a bank failure or two

and a consequent panic, may open people's eyes and make
them repent. However heavy the penalty they may have to
bear, it cannot be too heavy to please me.

    1 To Spencer might have    b: e"enHisaphpalisedbeetnhethwatorudnstimoef lythefateTimtehes

regarding a Russian statesman

unhappiest that can befall a reformer to sit helplessly by while reaction

triumphs."
1900-02]              His Last Book                                                       451

     About this time he wrote (by way of suggestion, not for
publication) to the editor of one of the London papers.

A strong point might be made against our proceedings
in South Africa by quoting a passage from the charge of the
Grand Jury, delivered by Lord Chief Justice Cockburn in the
case of Governor Eyre and the Jamaica business. In that
charge he emphatically asserted that the English constitution
knows no such thing as martial law ; saying that martial law
has no independent basis whatever, but is an agency which
comes into action only when the ordinary agency for main-
taining law has broken down                           in fact, nothing else than an
                      is                                                          called in when
                                        is,

                                            I

                                                                is
armed servant of the ordinary law, which

the ordinary servant  not strong enough to carry out its
injunctions. This passage should,
                                                                               think, be continually

emphasized.

             To THE RIGHT HON. JOHN MORLEY.

                                                                               10 November, 1901.

        enclose you copy of letter written                                                little time ago,
which had not the intended effect.
II                                                                             if,
                                                                                      Ia
            it

                          ;

                    it
                          it a

                              I

                                                   a
enclose because see that in your speech the other day

you quoted another distinguished lawyer on the question of
martial law and
                      occurs to me that                                        as see stated, you

propose to bring up the question before Parliament this next
             will be desirable to add Cockburn's opinion to
session,
Campbell's. . . . Martial law as properly understood ought to
be nothing more than the calling in of the soldiery, with its
accompanying discipline, when the police fails the whole thing
                                                                               :

being done under command of the civil power, and ceasing
when the civil power withdraws its command.

An interchange of letters took place with Dr. E. B.

Tylor touching the controversy of 1877. Spencer had
          2)
                             a

                                                    a
                                                                      it l
drawn attention to    passage in First                                         "Prbiencipilnesth(echparpim, iitii.v, e
14, para. in which    occur the words

Ghost-theory, which assumes                           human personality behind
each unusual phenomenon " words showing conclusively

that his own ideas had been formed before the promulga-

tion of Dr. Tylor's opinions. Soon after, however, his

secretary discovered that the passage cited was not in the

earlier editions of First Principles, having been first intro-

duced as late as 1890. Dr. Tylor was at once informed
of this, and long letter was afterwards written giving an
             a

                                                                           p.
                      Supra, chap, xiv., 190.
452 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvu.

account of the genesis of his beliefs, going back to 1853
and concluding thus :

  . I feel bound to recall these evidences, as already said,
because I cannot leave you under the impression that I accept
your version of the matter, but I do not suppose your opinion
will be altered. An idea fixed for thirty years is not easily
changed, and it is impossible to change my own conviction,
conscious as I am of what the facts were ; so the matter must
now drop.

Professor Knight's article in the Bookman for January,

1901, was a welcome introduction to the new year. Its

very sympathetic and appreciative utterances he prized all

the more as coming from one who was in antagonism on

more than one point. "In England (though not else-

where) manifestations of approval have usually been so

tepid that  yours, being so  boetxhce"pstiuornparli,sedgiavned  mgreatifmieudch"
pleasure."  In May he was

by an application from Mr. Brant-Sero (an Iroquois) for
permission to translate Educaiion into the Mohawk language.

As if in answer to his complaint that manifestations of

approval in England had. been tepid, there appeared an
article " On the Last of the Great Victorians," in Black

and    White (18 May, 1901) on article  pervaded                by a  tone
of "  deep and heartfelt sympathy."

     Incidents like these belong to the bright side of 1901.
On the dark side were not only the war and the alleged

national degeneration ; there was also the continued shrink-

ing of the already narrow circle of his friends : death

having recently removed Dr. W. J. Youmans, Mr. John

Fiske, Dr. Lewis G. Janes, and Mr. Robert Buchanan.

      Occasionally one comes across a letter which shows

how he was progressing with his last book.

                           To SIR ROBERT GIFFIX.

                                                                                17 May, 1901.
     Is it possible to state in a rough way of course in a very
rough way what is the amount per head entailed on pro-
ducers by 100,000,000 of national expenditure in terms of

working days ? . . . I have in view the extra work entailed
on those who are either manually occupied or are necessary
regulators of those manually occupied, and on whom extra
1900-02]                       His Last Book                              453

taxation entails so much the more labour. I want to state
how many extra days work in the year 100,000,000 of ex-

penditure entails on these.

     20 May. I am immensely obliged to you for your note and
memorandum. It tells me all I wanted. Nothing more than
a rough estimate is possible or is requisite for my argument
an argument directed towards showing people that, as in all
cases throughout history, those who enslave other peoples
enslave themselves. 1

          To RIGHT HON. ARTHUR JAMES BALFOUR.

                                                PETWORTH, 19 June, 1901.

    I believe it has been announced that you propose to drop
the Copyright Bill. It is now 24 years since I gave evidence
before a Royal Commission which sat in 1877, and among the
recommendations agreed upon was one that the duration of
copyright should be for life and 30 years after death, instead
of being as now ; and I believe the report of the Commission

recently sitting endorsed that recommendation, omitted in the
Bill now before Parliament. . . .

    Would it not be possible to introduce a short bill doing
nothing more than change the duration of copyright, leaving
all detailed matters to be hereafter dealt with ?
The matter is very important to needy authors who have
families, since it is very much a question of leaving a good
provision for children or leaving very little.
    To me it is a matter of no personal interest, but only of

public interest. I have bequeathed my property for the
purpose of carrying on the Descriptive Sociology after my death.
The returns from my books will form part of the revenues
which will be available for the undertaking.       Under the
existing law a large part of these revenues will lapse seven

years after my death. 2

     I have, however, a further reason for being anxious that

1 Facts and Comments, p. 1 20.

- In his Will Spencer provided that the residuum of his estate should
be devoted, under the direction of Trustees, to carrying on the publica-
tion of the series of volumes of the Descriptive Sociology, commenced in
o1f86t7heandAthsetonpapeeudm,  in 1881. Mr. H.  R. Tedder, Secretary and Librarian
                                 was appointed  general editor of the series. The
following volumes are now in preparation : Chinese, compiled and
abstracted by Mr. E. T. C. Werner, H.M.'s Consul, Kiu Kiang, China ;
Hellenic Greeks, by Dr. J. P.                    and Prof. W. A. Goligher ;
                                   Mahaffy      by Mr. E. H. Alton, F.T.C.D.,
Hellenistic Greeks, by the same;  Romans,

and Prof. Goligher. Arrangements are also being made for a volume on
the Ancient Egyptians.
454 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvu.

the present law respecting duration should be changed, namely
that as the law now stands it will be possible seven years
after my death for anybody to publish the imperfect versions
of my books of which the copyright has expired, though the
perfect versions are still copyright. . . . This I should regard
as a disaster.

                           To SIR JOSHUA FITCH.

                                                      PETWORTH, 1 July, 1901.
     In something I am writing I want briefly to enumerate
the various ways in which the militant spirit is infusing itself
into our teaching institutions of all grades military discipline,
military teaching. . . .

   I want to indicate also the way in which the tendency to
unification in teaching has been growing. Tt was shown in

the medical profession some years ago by an agitation for
some uniform system of examination, but I do not know how
that ended. Then there is the present Government's Educa-
tion Bill, dropped for the time being, which takes away such
small variety as arose from school-board management. And
there is the endeavour to unify by introducing the ecclesiastical
element more widely or, indeed, universally. Private schools
are being put more and more to disadvantage, so that they are
in course of being crushed out, and there results an increase
of uniformity. Moreover, I remember a while ago there was
a meeting of Head-masters of public schools, at which some-
thing like an appeal was made to the Government to bring
them all under some kind of State control again to unify the
system. I wish to illustrate the universal tendency towards
regimentation. 1

     He returned to Brighton early in 'September, feeling
so much stronger that he contemplated taking a fortnight
in London an idea which, however, he had not strength
to carry out.

    A letter from Mr. Leslie Stephen (September 1901),
introducing Dr. Stanton Coit, the editor of Ethics, induced
Spencer to subscribe towards the Ethical Lectures Fund,

while adhering to the view expressed in 1899 as to the
qualifications of the lecturers. 2 He even assented to allow

     1 Facts and Comments,   p. 134. In April  following he wrote to several
London papers, recalling    a saying of Lord   "SaTlhisabturyw'shichthawt a"sthteheirn
must be to capture the      Board Schools."                                             aim
                                                                                         set

forth as an aim is being now carried out."

2 Supra, chap, xxv., p. 416.
1900-02]    His Last Book               455

his name to be given to one of the lectureships. His mis-

givings about the scheme presently re-appeared in another
form, as one learns from a letter to Dr. Coit in November.

    The drift of the articles in your periodical, Ethics . . .
opens my eyes to the certainty that there will be no sufficient

...agreement in the ethical views to be propagated by ethical
societies.  So clearly do I see that some of the views
enunciated will be views from which I profoundly dissent,
that I must ask you for an abandonment of the proposal to give

my name to a lectureship.

"I  In another letter to Dr. Coit (i    March, 1902) he says:
    cannot without self-stultification  continue to co-operate

in any way, and I must therefore request that my name
may be erased from the list of subscribers to the fund."

But he was careful to add that his "dissent from the social

ideals, which the Ethical movement, as now directed, will

diffuse, must not be taken as evidence of contentment with

present social arrangements."

    His impatience as a reader, to which he so frequently

alludes, was sometimes traceable to intellectual dissent, as

in the case of Kant's Critique, sometimes to emotional or

moral aversion, as in the case of Carlyle. In whichever of

those two ways his further acquaintance with a book was

put a stop to, the result, as far as concerned his estimate

of the author's works, was the same. Instead of keeping
his judgment in suspense, he was apt to form a very decided

opinion, which in after life he seldom reconsidered. This
trait was exemplified when Mr. Collins asked what he

thought of Robert Louis Stevenson.

            To F. HOWARD COLLINS.

                                                                                    18 October, 1901.

    Your question about Stevenson I answer just after having
listened to a review of his life in the Times. I have read very
little of him. I began to read many years ago Travels with a
Donkey in the Cevennes, but was so disgusted with his treatment
of the donkey that I gave it up quickly and never looked into
another of his books for many years.

     His opinions as to the value of learned Academies had
long been well-known. Is was, therefore, from a feeling
of the courtesy due to an author of distinction, rather than
456 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvu.

from any expectation of receiving a favourable response,

that he was invited to join the movement for the institution
of a British Academy of Letters.

                 To SIR E. MAUNDE THOMPSON.

                                                  20 November, 1901.

I am obliged by the invitation made by the sub- committee

you name to be one of those to receive the charter of the pro-
...posed British Academy of Letters. I must be excused, however,
if I do not accept the invitation.                I have, in contesting the
views of Mr. Matthew Arnold, who wished for an English
Academy, given expression to sundry objections, and I still hold
those objections to be valid.

    Sir Joseph Dal ton Hooker, Lord Avebury, and Spencer
were the sole survivors of the X Club ; but they rarely met
in these years. Occasionally letters passed between them.

               To SIR JOSEPH DALTOX HOOKER.
                                                  16 November, 1901.

It is a long, long time since any news passed between us
a year and a- half, I think. Superfluous letter writing is at
your time of life, and even at mine, a thing to be avoided ; but
...still, I should like to have a few lines telling me how you fare
in your contest with the inevitable.              I am taking my daily

drives and doing a fair amount of work.

    A sentence   in Sir Joseph Hooker's                      rleifpely"  "You have
                 hold, a big grip on my
held, and still                                                          shows how

strong the bond of their friendship was.

                                   FROM LORD AVEBURY.

                                                                   25 January, 1902.
     You may have seen that the Committee of the Society of
Authors, over which I have the honour of presiding, have
suggested your name as the one we should put forward from
England for the Nobel prize.
     The suggestion I may add has been cordially received.
     As one of your oldest friends it has been a great pleasure to
me to take a part in endeavouring to secure for you this well
merited recognition.

Spencer's name was forwarded to the Swedish Academy,

but the prize was not awarded to him.                        " What

     He  was   ttoryiBneglietovearsns?w"elr  the  question,              should  the
Sceptic   say

                 Facts and Comments, p. 200.
1900-02]                               His Last Book                      457

                   To MRS. SIDNEY WEBB.

                                                      14 February, 1902.

     My special motive for writing is to ask whether you did

not once tell me that your girlhood was often made miserable
by your religious convictions by the thoughts of hell which
had been instilled into you. And my reason for asking this

is that I am just now about to say a little upon the difficulty
of the agnostic in dealing with others when to leave them
alone and when to attempt to change their convictions. There
are various cases, and I want to say a little about each kind.
There
                believe, good deal of religious despondency, and
     a
            is,

             I

                                    a
not little religious insanity, and all this evil has to be set off
against what may be said on the other side.

     Facts and Comments was published in London and New
York on April 25, 1902.

                   To ALEXANDER BAIN.

                                                      25 April, 1902.

        bait my hook with book in the hope of catching letter.
You either have received or will shortly receive copy of Facts
II                                     is             a
                                          a                        a

                                                  a                      I
and Comments, which my last book, written during these two

years at the rate of ten lines day.
         have heard nothing of you for a long time save the

accounts which Duncan has given me on the occasions of his
visits down here. You, too, as gather, are much invalided,
but are still able to take drive daily. This unfortunately
                                       a

                                               I

cannot do. . .  .

I        not unfrequently think of the disgust you must feel at

the fate which has overtaken Mind. That you, after establish-
ing the thing and maintaining for so many years at your own
                                       it
                                                 it
cost, should now find                        turned into an organ for German
idealism must be extremely exasperating. . . Oxford and
Cambridge have been captured by this old-world nonsense.        .
What about Scotland                                                    rife there
                                       ?     suppose Hegelianism   is

                                          I

also.

     As friend after friend was removed by death, Dr. Bain,

like Spencer, cherished all the more warmly tokens of
fellowship from those that survived. " never saw such
a
                                                                           I

                                                                                                  it
beaming smile on Dr. Bain's face as when he showed

"[thHee  above  letter] to             me," said his wife to the present writer.
           was  evidently              extremely pleased to hear from Mr.

Spencer, and Mr. Spencer's sympathy in connection with

Mind was most highly valued."

     Next day Spencer wrote to Professor Masson in similar
                                                                       a

strain.
458 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP, xxvn

     I suppose Hegelianism is rife in Edinburgh as it is in Oxford
and Cambridge. This is one of those inevitable rhythms which

pervade opinion, philosophical and other, in common with
things at large. But our Hegelianism, or German Idealism in
England, is really the last refuge of the so-called orthodox. As
I have somewhere said, what could be a better defence for
incredible dogmas than behind unthinkable propositions ?

     In December previous he had written to the Editor of
Mind, with reference to the promise made to Professor
Sidgwick at the time Mind changed hands, guaranteeing
his financial support.

     Since that time Mind has been becoming more and more
conspicuously an organ of the Hegelians, or of German Idealism.
The result was that, just before my first annual subscription
became due, I wrote to my bankers to erase my name as a
subscriber. Of course I should regard it as quite appropriate
that each school of philosophic thought should have its say, but
of late one school has been having very much more say than the
rest. It cannot be expected that I should aid the survival of a
periodical so largely devoted to the expression of views diametri-
cally opposed to my own.

     The appearance of his last book just two days before his
eighty-second birthday lent additional meaning and fervour
to the annual greetings. 1 Thus Lord Hobhouse wrote :

     Though, alas ! the generation is fro ward ; and some of your
good seed has been devoured by fowls of the air ; and some
fallen on barren rock ; and some choked by thorns ; a great
deal has fallen on good ground, and has brought forth fruit
manifold, and will assuredly bring forth more in more favourable
seasons.

                              To LORD HOBHOUSE.

                                                                                   4 May, 1902.
     Among the many congratulations received on the occasion

of my eighty-second birthday I can say very sincerely that none

have been so appropriate, and therefore so pleasurable to me, as

that for which I have to thank you.

     1 Among the greetings from abroad was the usual letter and birthday
gift from M. Geza Schulek, of Buda Pesth. Three years before this date
he and his wife had come to England expressly to see Spencer for a few
minutes.
1900-02]                       His Last Book                                                     459

   It as you say, doubtful whether the event itself one to
        is,                                                                         aI
                  it
                        is                                                                   is
                            a
be rejoiced over, but you express my own feeling fully, when
                               matter of rejoicing to me that have lived
you say that
long enough to complete the work, which half century ago

   conceived and soon after definitely undertook. Some small
I
     I
aims of no great moment remain unfulfilled but, passing these
by, have the satisfaction, which suppose      ;
                               ;                                                    rare, of having
                                                 is
                                       it I
done what proposed to do and adds to this satisfaction to
            I

receive this expression of your sympathy.
    You too have been working towards ends which the course
of things thwarting, and we must both be content with con-
            is   remoter time when good efforts made now will
templating    a

have some effects, though they may be infinitesimal.

   An envelope, containing lock of his hair, encloses also
                               a
                                     is
                                           a

                                                                                 :
a  note, of which the following              facsimile

                                                                                    ^-7^
                         460

                 CHAPTER XXVIII.

                   THE CLOSE OF LIFE.

                 (April, 1902 Decent her, 1903.)

Facts and Comments had been definitely announced as

his last book. This circumstance, together with the varied

nature and contentious character of the work, tended to

excite more than the usual interest. Professor Masson

thought it "eminently readable and interesting none the

less that much of it is provocative of dissent, and is sure

to be protested against in various quarters. I refer espe-

cially to the questions concerning the war and other
present-day questions. If I say that here and there I am
among the dissenters in this department, that will not,

I am sure, distress you much." Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker

was a dissenter, or at least a partial dissenter, about the
war. Professor Bain thought the " showing up of Matthew

Arnold's absurd claim for the State-Church as the exclusive

nursery of men of genius was a very deserved and impor-

tant correction. But perhaps the part of the book that

aroused my   deepest interest was your concluding                  remarks
on Ultimate   Questions." While recognizing it                     as " the

conclusion of strenuous, honourable, consistent work," the
                 these " slight, sketchy,                   imperfect "
Times  noted in  of persistent egotism,"               and  great to be  utter-
ances  " a tone                                        too               quite

"ewxhhcaiucsshatbhlMee.r.chTSahprmeenecseosrfaycisoonpuio"nuSssoumrpaeansdsLeigdf.he"lticioton"uWUs seei-lIlnsuhhsoterurailttdaionnchea,v"ien

liked the latest words of one who has deeply influenced

his generation to be measured, calm, equitable, peaceful.

....In some of these essays are present these qualities

But in too many of the Facts and Comments is a tone of

acerbity."   The New     Y"oerkxcSuarstuiorndayintoof  May 17 was  gracious
enough to   excuse this                                the domain  of fads,"
1902-03]     The Close of Life  461

on the ground that " a man of eighty-two is too old to work
and may play if he likes. If in setting his desk in order he

comes across scraps of disconnected literary output, which

did not fit anywhere in his earlier books, and he chooses

to gather them into a haphazard collection . . . why

should he not do so ?" Readers in the United States were

naturally interested in "A Few Americanisms," and were

not unwilling to avail themselves of the invitation, conveyed

in the last paragraph of the article, to expose deteriorations

in the English language as spoken in Great Britain. Among

the causes that contributed to create more than the usual

demand for the book on the Continent, not the least were

its denunciations of the South African War : these denuncia-

tions seeming to afford a justification for the general dislike

to Great Britain during those years. So popular was it in

France that three translations were offered. In Germany

more than one version was proposed ; but, instead of trans-

lating the whole book, selections were made from it and

from Various Fragments. At one time it looked as if there

would be no Italian translation, Spencer having intimated

that rather than tolerate the persistent repudiation of an

"Itauthor's rights he would prefer to let the book remain un-
translated.  is not that I care about the actual amount

receivable. In proof of this he handed over to the trans-

lator his own share of the amount paid by the publisher.

Russia, so long in the front rank, had years ago fallen

behind. Spencer's books continued to be objects of suspi-

cion to the Russian authorities, whose blundering ignorance
is shown in the Times of July 28, 1903. A student, on being
examined for admission to the University, was charged with

being a socialist, on the ground that he had been seen in

the street at the age of 15 with Spencer's Sociology under
his arm ! Nevertheless, Facts and Comments appeared in a

Russian dress before it was published in French or German. 1

In May, 1902, he went on what was to be his last visit

     1 Since the year 1865, when proposals to translate his books were
first thought of, most of Spencer's principal works had been rendered
into Russian, French, German and Italian. Portions of them had also
been translated into almost all the other languages of Europe, as well
as into the chief languages of India and into Japanese and Chinese.
During his last years translations of Education into Arabic and Mohawk
were mentioned.
462 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvm.

to the country, Leith Vale, Ockley, in Surrey, being the
place selected. How he enjoyed himself was thus described
at the time by Mr. Troughton : " Above all he is delighted
with the multitude of song-birds hereabouts. Listening to
the birds the other day, while sitting outside under the
verandah during a short spell of sunshine, Mr. Spencer said,
' This is what I have been looking forward to for the last
six months.'" His absence from Brighton deprived him

of the pleasure of meeting one with whom he had corre-
sponded a great deal, but whom he had never seen
the Dowager Countess of Portsmouth, who first became
interested in him through her brother, the Hon. Auberon

Herbert.

            To THE DOWAGER COUNTESS OF PORTSMOUTH.

                                                                                 6 June, 1902.

     I am very unfortunate. Some years ago you honoured me
with a call at Avenue Road, and I was out. And now that you
are about to visit Brighton I am away from there. . . .

     The contretemps is very provoking, since I should have
been greatly pleased to see one from whom I have received
so many kindnesses. I fear I thus lose my last chance, for
being now eighty-two, the probability that you will again visit
Brighton during my life is but small.

To Mrs. BRAY.

               6 June, 1902.

     Allow me at eighty-two to shake hands with you at eighty-
eight ! I say shake hands rather than offer congratulations,
since you know as well as I do, or better, that the infirmities

and weariness of advanced years are such as render continuance
of them not a cause for congratulation. . . .

     I managed three weeks ago to get to this place, which is in
all respects charming, and I am on the average profiting by the

change.

     The requests for contributions from his pen were varied
and numerous. He was invited by the Danish Minister
of the Interior, through Mr. Goschen, the British Minister,
to write a short article for a journal which was to be issued

weekly during the Exposition Historique de la Presse

Danoise, the subject prescribed being an inquiry as to
the direction in which social development was tending
\vhether towards socialism or individualism. This invita-
1902-03]     The Close of Life                        463

tion was declined "because the amount of thought required

would be too great a tax." The approaching Coronation
brought many such appeals. A few lines "on the subject

of the Trust in Atlantic Steamships" were solicited by one

of the London daily papers. The Neuc Freie Presse was eager
                                               number "Anti-
to get a  "  contribution 'for  its Christmas
semitism       being suggested    as a topic.   Mr. Spielmann

begged for a few words on the condition of the Jews in
Roumania. The Giornale d' Italia sought his opinion

about the suppression of the Religious Orders in France.
" A few words of sympathy and support " were sought by

a small number of people in Melbourne, who were forming

a society bearing his name.

Peace had been proclaimed and there had now to be

faced the consequences of the war. The condition of the

sufferers, whether Boers or Britons, aroused the active

sympathy of all parties. Among those who had suffered

most \vas Ex-President Steyn, whose fortune and health

were completely shattered by his heroic efforts to save the

independence of his State. While Mr. Steyn was on his

way to Europe, to obtain the best available medical assist-

ance, Spencer was asked to give his name to a movement

to send some token of the sympathy and admiration of

well-wishers. He readily assented on condition that the

matter would be kept entirely private, and that the secre-

tarial work would be done by the friend who had made the

suggestion.

The gift was transmitted with the following letter :

                           To EX-PRESIDENT STEYN.

                                                                            10 August, 1902.

     A few friends in England have paid me the compliment
of making me the medium for transmitting to you the ac-
companying testimonial of their sympathy and high admiration.
They believe, as I do, that nowhere among historic characters
is there to be found one whose persistence in upholding a cause
he belieX'ed to be right has been more conspicuous. Even

enemies must admit that sacrifices of position, property, and
health, which have ended in a prostration so extreme as that
which you now suffer, imply a heroism rarely to be found

among men. To emphasize their belief and accompanying
admiration, they beg your acceptance of this proof of their
great regard, joining to it the hope that with care, and the

attention of sympathetic friends, you may yet recover.
464 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP,9xxvin.

     Needless to say, this spontaneous recognition of his

honesty of purpose and of the self-sacrificing devotion
with which he had pursued the course he believed to be
right, was gratefully appreciated by Mr. Steyn. The value

of the gift was enhanced by the medium through whom

it was transmitted, Spencer's having been an honoured
name in South Africa, long before the outbreak of the war.

     Spencer was eagerly waiting for public intimation of
some centre of co-operation for the collection of subscrip-
tions to the Boer Fund, and represented to General Botha
and his colleagues, who were then in London, the impolicy

of delay.

                To GEXERAL Louis BOTHA.

                                                      24 October, 1902.

I have been both astonished and greatly annoyed by the
way in which the         pBauormseuraexdRimes,leiee"fmSstFruitkonedhwahvheiales betbheeenen"iroWmnaaniitsagtheilodl t
England. We have                                                                                                         in
                                                                                                                        "
whereas    the  "course
iron is  cold        !                                                                                                        ;

                                                                                                                       the

immediately after your interview with Mr. Chamberlain,
If,

                     a
                                                               is

                                                                          a

                                                                                                                                  .

                                                                                                                a
there had been an advertisement, naming committee of some
three or five, with an indication of the bank to which sub-

scriptions might be paid, there would at once have been
response from great many who now have become almost in-
different from mere lapse of time. Two months have passed,

and the feelings of the sympathetic have been allowed to die
away before anything practical has been done. . . The whole
thing, in my opinion, has been dreadfully bungled. Pray have
the thing put in such business form as always taken by any
body which proposes to raise subscriptions.

     General Botha shared Spencer's regret that so much
precious time had been lost. But being without experience
in circumstances entirely new, he and his brother delegates
had to be guided by the advice of their friends.

          request made by the Rationalist Press Association
for permission to publish cheap reprint of the first part
of First Principles was declined for reasons stated in the

following letter.
A

                                                   :
                                                a

                                       J.
                To GEORGE                             HOLYOAKE.

                                                                            26 August, 1902.

    Two mischiefs are apt to arise from reading separately the
first part of First Principles (1) Those who are opposed to its
views conclude that the second part, being as they think based
1902-03]            The Close of Life                             465

upon the first, must be equally opposed to their views, and
even when they have the whole volume before them they read
no further. I have direct evidence that this happens. (2)
Those who read sympathetically are liable to draw the utterly
erroneous conclusion that in Part I. is contained the substance

of the Synthetic Philosophy, and that having . read it they need
read no further.

"    There is a  "  mischief of   another kind   from presenting  the
   Unknowable         apart from   the general  system of things  set
forth under the title of u The Knowable." Those who are led

to abandon the current creed, and whose lives have given them
no knowledge of the natural order of things to fill the gap left,
remain in a state of unstable equilibrium, and are apt to lapse
back into one or other kind of superstition Roman Catholicism
usually. I personally know two instances of this.

   A month or two later he assented willingly to the issue

of a sixpenny edition of Education. The Northumberland

Society for the Liberation of Education from    State  Control,
was also permitted to reprint the chapter              National
Education " in Social Statics.                  on "

   The quantity of miscellaneous correspondence got

through during the three months spent in the country

is astonishing, when one remembers his increasing in-

firmities aggravated by the "unsummerly summer," as
he calls it : " winter " is the term by which he describes
it to Mr. Carnegie. " During this sojourn at Leith Vale,"
writes Mr. Troughton, " it became more manifest than

it had been before that he was breaking up, physically,

certainly, and also mentally; but the decay of mental faculty

was less marked than the bodily decrepitude, which seemed

now to be advancing with rapid strides."

   Points of resemblance between Spencer's views and

those of Rousseau had been touched upon in the past

more frequently than Spencer liked, owing to the sugges-

tion conveyed that he had borrowed some of his charac-

teristic doctrines about man, society, and education from

the French writer. With regard to education he had been

at pains to point out to M. Gabriel Cotnpayre in October,

1901, that he had never read Emile, and owed none of his

ideas on education to it. And, now, when Mr. Hudson

sought permission to dedicate a forthcoming book on

Rousseau to him, he felt constrained to refuse.

   50
466 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP, xxviil.

                            To W. H. HUDSON.

                                                                            7 January^ 1903.

    I regret to say " No " to any proposal you make, but I

cannot consent to the dedication of your book on Rousseau
to me. There are several kindred reasons for this.

    You probably remember the controversy with Huxley in the

Times ten years ago or more. . . . One of his letters contained

the assertion that I had adopted my political views from
Rousseau. Such a dedication as you name would tend to verify
this wholly baseless assertion. . . . His cardinal political princi-
ple, so far as I know it at second hand, I reject.

     He is said to have taught the primitive equality of men.
This I hold to be absurd, and my own doctrine implies no such
belief, which is quite inconsistent with the evolutionary doctrine

   the struggle for existence and survival of the httest.
     Not the equality of men, but the equality of their claims to

make the best of themselves within the limits mutually pro-
duced, has all along been my principle. . . .

     The equality alleged in Social Statics'] is not among men
themselves, but among their claims to equally-limited spheres
for the exercise of their faculties : an utterly different proposi-
tion. Huxley confused the two and spread the confusion, and
I am anxious that it should not be further spread. Pray, if you
have occasion to refer to my views, take care to emphasize
this distinction.

     His interest in affairs of public moment withstood to the

last the advance of the infirmities of age.

                 To FREDERIC HARRISON.

                                                    5 March, 1903.

     Doubtless" you remember the meeting held many years ago
a propos of the disestablishment and disendowment of the
Church, 1 and doubtless you remember that you were commis-
sioned to draw up the heads of a bill setting forth the aims

of those represented by the meeting, among whom, by the
        was Mr.  Chamberlain (!).
way,    presume  you have a copy   of  this  draft  bill  in  printed form.

     I

The question is again coming to the front, and this meeting
of Free Churches at Brighton may be the occasion for bringing
it to the front. Would it not be well for you to put before
the leaders this same document as indicating what were,
and are still, I believe, the aims of those who moved in the

matter. . . .

     My distinct impression is that all property accruing to the

                 1 Autobiography, ii., 258-260.
1902-03]  The dose of Life  467

Church after the Reformation \vas to remain with the Church ;
but that all property, existing as its property before the Refor-
mation, was to revert to the State ancj to be used for such
secular or other purposes as might be generally or locally
decided.

     The occasion is a good one for dissipating the injurious
error, which is widespread, that those who seek to disestablish
desire possession of the whole of the Church property, old
and new.

     The final occasion on which he was offered an academic
title was in the spring of 1903, when the University of
London sought to confer on him the honorary Degree of
Doctor of Literature. It was intimated to him that the
degree was to be conferred on the Prince and Princess of
Wales, himself, and on not more than two others.

To SIR A. W. RUCKEK, PRINCIPAL OF THE UNIVERSITY OF

                                               LONDON.
                                                                          March, 1903.

     I greatly regret that acceptance of the honour, which so
distinguished a body as the Senate of the University of London
proposes to confer upon me, should for any reasons be

excluded.

     In the first place, my state of health has prevented me
from leaving the house since last August. . . .

     Even should the Senate, prompted by kind consideration
on my behalf, dispense with my presence, there would still
remain an insurmountable difficulty. For a third of a century,
during which honorary titles, home and foreign, have from
time to time been offered to me, I have, in pursuance of the
belief that, though apparently beneficial to literature and science,
they are ;in the end injurious, declined the offers. Were I now
to accept the distinction which the Senate of the University
of London is so good as to hold out to me, these bodies,
including sundry British and foreign universities and various
continental academies, which have proposed to accord me
doctorships and memberships, would be thereby slighted ; and
an act, which would manifestly inflict upon them something
approaching to an insult, is one which I naturally cannot bring
myself to do.

     Of course, my regret that I am thus prevented from accept-
ing the honour offered by the eminent men constituting the
Senate is increased by the consciousness that the occasion
is quite a special one.

    Though unwilling to accept honours for himself, he was
always ready to join in proposals to do honour to those
468 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP, xxvin.

who deserved it. When it was proposed to give a reception
to Mr. Holyoake on his eighty-sixth birthday, he wrote :

                            To C. FLETCHER SMITH.
                                                                     28 March, 1903.

     I have not been out of doors since last August, and as Mr.
Holyoake knows, it is impossible for me to join in the reception
to be given to him on his 86th birthday. I can do nothing more
than express my warm feeling of concurrence.

     Not dwelling upon his intellectual capacity, which is high,
I would emphasize my appreciation of his courage, sincerity,
truthfulness, philanthrophy, and unwearying perseverance.
Such a combination of these qualities it will, I think, be
difficult to find.

     Though unable to write anything which the Industrial
Freedom League might distribute as a leaflet, with a view
to combat the growing tendency of municipalities to embark
on business undertakings, he wrote to Lord Avebury : " I
need hardly say how fully I sympathize with the aims of
the Council and how energetically I should have co-
operated had it been possible. I shall willingly contribute
to the funds, if some fit form is sent to me." The state
of his health probably prevented him complying with the
request to send to Le Matin a message of good will to the
French on the eve of the King's visit to Paris ; but a similar
request, made before M. Loubet's visit to London in July,
was responded to :

     All advocates of peace (he wrote) all who believe that
 future civilization is bound up with the friendship of nations

    will rejoice in the visit to England of a Frenchman who
 represents France ; and I, in common with them, hope that
 his reception will prove that the general feeling in England

 expresses something more than the official ceremonies of the
 occasion.

      With an effort he roused himself to send a message
 of encouragement to the Young Scots Society, "which
 seeks to revive Liberal ideals at a time when Liberal ideals
 have been forgotten."

       Most of his acknowledgments of birthday congratula-
 tions this year included the refrain : " I feel now that the
 prolongation of a feeble old age is not a matter for con-
MR, SPENCER'S SITTING-ROOM
AND BEDROOM at 5 Percival

Terrace, Brighton.
1902-03]  The Close of Life  469

gratulation rather for condolence." All through the
winter he had hardly ever stirred from his room ; and
although the return of spring brought back thoughts of the
country, once and only once did he express the hope of

getting there.

     He had a strong prejudice against professional nurses
(writes Mr. Troughton), and it was not until it became abso-
lutely necessary that he consented to have one to look after
him. Feeble and emaciated as his frame now was, he had lost
little of that strength of will which had always been a marked
trait with him, and both nurses and doctors found him a by
no means easy patient to deal with owing to this. No less
emphatic was the assertion of scepticism in j-egard to the
treatment ordered by the doctor. He could not put himself
entirely in the hands of another ; he wanted to know the
reason for this, that, or the other, mode of treatment recom-

mended ; the contents and ^obable effects of the prescribed
medicines would be discussed at length, and if the use of them
did not conform- to his ideas he ignored them.

     Marked symptoms of aphasia manifested themselves
during the second week of May, along with hallucinations.
While he was in this condition Dr. Charlton Bastian, in
response to a telegram from Mr. Troughton, came to see

him ; but, under the impression that the visit was for the

purpose of discussing some biological question, he became

excited and begged to be left alone. A day or two after,
when he began to get better, he had only a vague recol-

lection of the brusque reception he had given to his
friend. When his secretary quietly hinted at the purpose

of the visit, he was filled with remorse ; and dictated an
apology " for the rude way in which I met your request

for a little conversation." A day or two after he wrote
again : " It was a great relief to me to receive your kind
note, for I had been dwelling in the fear that you would
be offended, and justifiably offended." In a similar vein he

apologized on one occasion to his medical attendant :
" Please erase from your memory sundry manifestations
of my explosiveness and lack of judgment which you saw

last night."

     His recuperative power was wonderful. Before many

days he was again able to undertake correspondence with
470 Life of- Herbert Spencer [CHAP, xxvm.

his more intimate friends. Miss Flora Smith had sent him
flowers grown at Ardtornish, with the message : " I thought
it might be a pleasure to you to have them from the place
where we have with you spent so many happy days." This
touched a responsive note. " The scent of flowers coming
from Ardtornish hills had a double pleasantness the
general pleasantness of flowers from the hills, and the
special pleasantness of flowers from the Ardtornish hills.
To me, as to you, they are reminders of long past pleasures,
and I am glad to hear that you and your sisters value them
in that way, and pleased to think that my presence in those
past times was not a disagreeable accompaniment in the
thought of these pleasures."

                          To SIR JOSEPH DALTOX HOOKER.

                                                                                  6 June, 1903.

     It was extremely gratifying to receive through Mr. Scott
your kind inquiry. As one's links with life become fewer and
fewer each becomes relatively more valuable, and the indication
that it still exists excites relatively increasing pleasure.

     I am very glad therefore once again to feel the pulse of my
still-surviving small circle of friends, and glad especially to feel
the pulse of one who had been so good a friend so many years.

     I should like to have a few lines giving me indications of
your own state, and will excuse you, as you will excuse me,
from writing at length.

     Sir Joseph Hooker was also extremely gratified to receive
this "evidence of abiding fellow-feeling. . . . The dear old

X Club is rapidly, with us, I fear, approaching the vanish-

ing point. How curious it seems, that we who were, I
think, considerably the oldest members, should be amongst
the three survivors."

                            To MRS. SIDNEY WEBB.

                                                                                29 June, 1903.
      Friends when talking to me about myself have often re-

marked, a propos of my state of health, that I have the conso-
lation of remembering all that I have done, and that this must
be a great set-off against all that I have to bear. This is a
natural mistake, but a profound mistake. Occasionally, past
achievements may be said to fill my mind perhaps once a
week, and then perhaps for ten minutes or a quarter of an
1902-03]  The Close of Life                471

hour ; but they do not form components of consciousness to a

greater extent than this. Practically, the bygones are bygones,
and the bygones of a large kind do not play much greater
parts in memory than those of a smaller kind.

     Your wish has recalled a conversation we had some years
ago I think when you had come down to see me in Arundel
Terrace. Something led us to talk about meaningless coinci-
dences, which might be thought full of meaning ; and I was
prompted to give you examples, two of them being known to
you personally. Further, by way of making the results very
striking, to each successive case as I narrated it you put down
what you considered a rational estimate of the probabilities for
and against such a thing occurring to the same person within

say twenty years ; and on compounding the numbers the
chances against seemed astounding.

     Thoughts of this kind are much more apt to intrude them-
selves than are thoughts of the kind you refer to ; and the
average colour of the whole consciousness produced is grey.

     How pleasant it would be if you were living so close at
hand that you could come in frequently for a few minutes !
But that is one of the things not to be hoped for.

          FROM ALEXANDER BAIN.

                                           8 June, 1903.

I have heard with deep regret, of your continued feeble
health and confinement to bed. You have never been so
dependent upon exercise as I am, still you must feel very weak
...and depressed. I earnestly hope you have no actual pain, and
can take some interest in passing events.  I send my long-

delayed volume of reprints. . . . Accept my deep sympathy.

                           To ALEXANDER BAIX.

                                                                         13 June, 1903.

     Very many thanks for your most kind and sympathetic
letter, and thanks also for your wishes for my freedom from
pain. Until recently I could have said yes, but of late spasms
have from time to time made my life difficult to bear.

     Knowing that your expressions of fellow-feeling are genuine
I shall excuse myself from running further risks by writing at
greater length.

     This was the last exchange of letters between them. Pro-
fessor Bain died on i8th September. In intimating this to
Spencer, at Mrs. Bain's request, Professor W. L. Davidson
added : " I should like to say from myself that you were
472 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvm.

much in his thoughts of late, and that he frequently
expressed his sympathy with you in your illness. His
kindness of heart showed itself to the very last in his
thoughtful ness for others."

                          To WILLIAM L. DAVIDSON.

                                                                               22 September, 1903.

      On the loss of a companion one may, of course, fitly condole
with Mrs. Bain, but otherwise I do not see that the event is
much cause for regret. He had done his work and lived his life,
and such portion of it as remained could be little more than
continued tolerance. My feeling may be judged when I say
that I envy him.

     I have on sundry occasions recognized the sympathetic
nature on which you remark, and, I think, manifestations
of it had become more pronounced in the latter parts of his
life.

     " You come to me every day in thought," wrote Mr.
Carnegie (14 September), "and the everlasting 'Why?'
intrudes. . . . Mr. Morley comes in a day or two and you

will, as usual, I am sure, be the centre of many talks."

             To ANDREW CARNEGIE.

                                          18 September, 1903.

The Why ? and the Why ? and the Why ? are questions
which press ever more and more as the years go by. . . .

    If means of locomotion sufficed to carry me to Skibo without

jolts if Mr. Spencer's air-ship had been sufficiently perfected,
which one may dream of, but nothing more I should have
liked to join John Morley iri seeing your feudal strong-
hold
      (!)..

           .

            I
                             I:
                                       I
You have forbidden thanks for grouse but some words
expressing thanks for those which arrived the other day mustI:
be added to the above to which must be joined thanks for
the beautiful sea-trout, which think are more highly coloured
in their flesh than any can remember more highly coloured
than those have myself habitually caught at Ardtornish.

          To THE RIGHT HON. JOHN MORLEY.

                                          16 September, 1903.

When tell you that a few days ago             consulted with
      I
          I
one of my executors respecting details of my funeral, you

will see that contemplate the end of this descent as being
1902-03]              The Close of Life                                                    473

not far off an end to which I look forward with satisfac-

tion. The contemplation of this end prompts me to ask a
favour of you.
     I have directed that my remains shall be cremated, and

I have as you will naturally suppose interdicted any such
ceremony as is performed over the bodies or ashes of those
who adhere to the current creed.
    At the same time, I do not like the thought of entire silence,
and should be glad were there given a brief address by a friend.
On looking round among my friends you stand out above others
as one from whom words would come most fitly ; partly, because
of our long friendship, partly, because of the kinship of senti-
ment existing between us, and partly, because of the general
likeness of ideas which distinguishes us from the world at

large. . . .                    this service for me ? Should
                                that words of farewell would
    Will you kindly undertake

you assent, the consciousness
come from one so wholly appropriate would be a satisfaction
to me during the short interval between now and my death.

    25 September. Since writing there has occurred to me an
obstacle to your assent which may possibly prove fatal. Your
next election may be endangered, and      you think so, pray
do not run the risk.I

          is

             II
                         I it

                                                        I
                                                           I .if

                                                                         it
                                                                                   if iIf
            FROM THE RIGHT Hox. JOHN MORLEY.

                                      26 September, 1903.

      need not tell you with what feeling received your letter.
The occasion for
                      and the purpose of  both alike moved

me deeply. That should comply with your wish,                                            survive

you,  indeed most certain, and     am grateful to you for
mentioning our long friendship and our general community
of ideas. shall always cherish the recollection of your friend-
ship, and shall never depart" from the spirit of your ideas.
    Your letter found me at Carnegie's. He desired me, possi-
ble, to ascertain from you one or two objects which you might
choose by way of memorial, and he would authorize me when
the time comes, to call upon him for the financial means of

carrying out whatever among those objects should seem to be
most desirable.

I       thank you, my dear Spencer, for this high mark of your
confidence.

    26 September.  It       most considerate of you to think of

                        is

this obstacle. But do not suppose that my good friends,
                      I

though staunch presbyterians, could have any notion of cur-
tailing my freedom, and they had, should resist without
                            if  I              it

much fear.
474 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvm.

                  To THE RIGHT HON. JOHN MORLEY.

                                                                               27 September, 1903.

     I thank you most heartily for your assent, and the more
so because it is expressed in such a way as to leave me in
no doubt respecting the willingness with which it is given. . . .
Nothing suggests last words at present. But should there
presently come a time when life is obviously ebbing, your face
is one of those I should be most anxious to see.

    P.S. If my second letter, which an oversight in the first

made needful, should give you the least reason for changing your
reply, pray do it. That some speeches of yours in Parliament
should be possibly lost is an evil which I recognize as im-
measurably greater than the alternative.

     P.S. 2. Mr. Carnegie's request I hope to fulfil in a way
that will be satisfactory to him.

     The hope expressed, that he might be able to fulfil
Mr. Carnegie's request to name one or two objects that he

might choose by way of memorial, appears not to have

been realized, owing, probably, to his rapidly diminishing
strength. He was feeling too heavily the burden of years
to take up any important matter. He could do little

more than wish success to School a magazine which it was

proposed to start in January, 1904.

                               To LAURIE MAGNUS.

                                                  12 October, 1903.

      A periodical which is to adopt the conception of education
I have so long entertained, and which is everywhere implied in

my writings at large, cannot fail to have my hearty good wishes.
The only passage in your programme which calls for comment
      "bsuesglhigeoefusltdthsatabeftuhneudnad"metrertanaitknaeilnngdobouyfbtctihtieiszetnShstaattaewn. dhictNhhoewcp,oremapsmariftarstoiommn e
and                                                                                                                                               to
                                                                                                                                                for
the
life                                                                                                                                            the
beginning I have, and do still, maintain that the State has no
such functions, and have further maintained that it is not for

a government "to mould children into good citizens, using its
own discretion in settling what a good citizen    and how the
                  is
                                  a

                                       is

                                                           it
                                                              I

                                                                                            is,

                                                                                    if
child may be moulded into one," appears to me that my
                                  practically cancelled. Only the word
au pSptaroteva"l  just given   from the passage in question, so reducing
                      omitted

the proposition to self-evident one, can endorse it.

     The death of Mr. Lecky severed one more of the few
remaining links between him and his old life.
1902-03]        The Close of Life                          475

                               To MRS. LECKY.

                                                                                   25 October, 1903.

     The praise of those \vho are gone very generally contains
insincerities, but among the many things which, were I
physically able, I might dictate from my sick bed, I can think
of none that are not laudatory.

     Intellectually clear and judicial, Mr. Lecky was morally
sincere in an extreme degree, and his devotion to the setting
forth of historic truth has been conspicuous to me as to every
one.

     The pains incident upon the breaking of a long companion-
ship must necessarily be great. Pray accept my sympathy,
now as heretofore.

    For some time his more intimate friends had ceased

arranging beforehand to come and see him, as the mere

anticipation of a visit perturbed him, and he was sure to
wish to postpone it. Symptoms similar to those shown

in May again made their appearance. By November he

was seldom well enough to answer letters, and took little

interest in what was going on. In replying to Mr. Shaw

Lefevre   (now Lord Eversley),  who had congratulated him
" on the   honour conferred on  you by the Nobel Trustees,"

he made no reference to the Nobel Prize. Nor does he

appear to have taken any notice of the paragraph in Dcr

Tag, of Berlin (November 12), describing him as a candi-
date for the Nobel Prize for Literature for 1903. Dcr Tag,
                instead of his                             of Earl
unfortunately,  the subscription  por"trEaiitn  gave that  fur den
Spencer, with
                                                Anwarter

literarischen Nobelpreis vom Jahre, 1903 : Lord Herbert
Spencer." This was not the first instance of the confusing

of Spencer with Earl Spencer by continental writers. In

Jfo1ar8fom8m5tehseM'E.aParltHatleocnegSt.up"ioeentn, c"aeoIdrf dcrMaaenp.snosloeHotdgoigc"zlueaEdeiamtr,"lftooHhreehrhabwaveevrrointtageSn,pyeo"npwtcehoenorrkeu,sdg2h7wa, oISnratoaihtnmeyt

proud to bear the same name as one so distinguished in

letters as yourself."

on  In response to a   repeated request he      dictated a note
    November 20 to     M. Coutant of Paris      : " I assent to

the addition of my name to the list of those who approve
476 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP, xxvin.

of the aims of the Bibliotheque Pacificiste Internationale."

After this only one more letter was signed by him, namely,

one on the 26th to Mrs. Courtney, who had forwarded

a letter addressed to him by Mrs. Steyn, giving an account

of   the improvement      in   MSor.uthSteAyfnri'cs a.hea"ltEhveanndwhtehneirthheorep,e"
of  being able to return   to

Mrs. Steyn wrote, "we will not forget to think with love

and reverence of you as the great Englishman who, in the

hour of our deepest suffering, shed so bright a ray on our

path and made us again take hope for the future." Surely

there was a singular fitness in this that the two last letters

he signed should have been connected with one of the

main purposes of his life the promotion of peace on earth

and goodwill among men.

    During the last week of November he took a decided

turn for the worse. He had expressed a wish that Mrs.

Sidney Webb should be present when he passed away.

She came to see him on the 4th December, but by that time
he seemed to have ceased to care to see anybody, only

desiring to be left alone. Now and again his indomitable

will asserted itself, as when a day or two before he died,

after several ineffectual attempts to convey a pill to his
mouth, he declined the assistance Miss Killick offered,
saying, " I hate to be beaten." On another occasion, when

signing a legal document, he remarked to Mr. Troughton,

who had moved     the paper so  as to get the signature at
the proper place  : " What are  you doing ? Do you think

I am a dying man?" When bidding him good night on

the Sunday before he died, Mr. Charles Holme said :
p"rIiseshdalbl yseteheyopuromtop-mt oqruroewstiomn o:rn"inWgh,"y
                                                                  and    was   rather sur-
                                                                    not     "

                                                                          ?

    "All through Monday," Mr. Troughton writes, "he

was either unconscious or semi-conscious ; and it was

during a semi-conscious interval that he motioned me to

his bedside, and, holding out his almost fleshless hand,

uttered the last words he ever spoke characteristic in

syntactical "expression, but apparently meaningless, though

it is possible that some definite purpose prompted them.
The words were : ' Now I take this step for the benefit of

those who are to be my executors ; my intention being

that after death this my body shall be conveyed by sea
1902-03]  The Close of Life  477

to Portsmouth.' " In the evening he became unconscious,
remaining so till 4.40 on the morning of Tuesday, 8th
December, 1903, when he passed peacefully away. His
end was such as his friends desired and he himself

wished.
     His executors, Mr. Charles Holme and Mr. Frank Lott,

found the instructions for the disposal of his body most
explicit and detailed. He had forbidden " the now usual
display of wreaths and the use of a hearse with open sides
for the purpose of display." It was also his wish that
those present should not wear mourning. In the event of

Mr. Morley not being able to be present, he had left
directions that Mr. Leonard Courtney should be invited

to take his place. Being at sea on his way to Sicily,
Mr. Morley was unable to fulfil his promise to say a few
words at the funeral of his friend. Mr. Courtney, who was

in Edinburgh engaged in a political campaign, promised to
come, if no one else could be found. Lord Avebury found

it impossible to come, and Mr. Balfour greatly regretted
that official engagements of pressing importance compelled
him to decline. Putting aside his own convenience,
therefore, Mr. Courtney hastened south.

     On the morning of Monday, December i4th, the remains

were removed from Percival Terrace, the Mayor of Brighton
in his official capacity, and the President of the Brighton
and Hove Natural History Society, following the hearse to
the railway station. At Victoria station a few friends had
assembled. A plain close hearse followed by three carriages
constituted the funeral procession through London. As it

passed along the streets, few were aware that this was the

last journey of one of the greatest thinkers of this or any
age. The assemblage at the crematorium at Golder's Green
included, in addition to relatives, the members of his house-

hold, the executors and two of the trustees, many intimate

private friends, distinguished representatives of literature
and science, with most of whom Spencer had long been
associated as a fellow-worker, and several foreign friends
and disciples. A few of his dearest friends were, to their

deep regret, unable, owing to the infirmities of age, to pay
 their last tribute of respect.

      The following impressive address WHS delivered to the
47 8 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvm.

assembly of mourners by Mr. Leonard Courtney (now Lord
Courtney of Pen with) :

     I am not worthy to be called to the most honourable duty
which has this day fallen upon me. So much I am bound to
confess in all simplicity and sincerity at the outset of the few
Words I may utter. I cannot claim to have been in any fit
sense a student of Herbert Spencer's works. I cannot plead
for recognition as one of the great company of his disciples.
You know, indeed, that Herbert Spencer's first desire was that
another man, known and honoured of us all, should speak on
this occasion. His consent had been sought and obtained, and
his words would have been fitting memorial of the work and
worth of the dead. But four years of unremitting and, towards
the end, of exhausting toil, have induced John Morley to seek
recovery of health and strength by the Mediterranean Sea, and
the news of Herbert Spencer's death overtook him as he
reached the Sicilian shores of imperishable memories and ever-
renewed beauties. His weariness has passed away, his normal
vigour is re-established, but it would have been impossible for
him to return here to-day had it been right to make the attempt,
and it was represented to me that Herbert Spencer had ex-
pressed the wish that I should take the place of John Morley
if he could not be present himself.

  ' This message was sent to me four days since, .when I Avas
in the Northern capital. I was immersed in another sphere
of action and occupied with far other thoughts, but to such
a call I could not be disobedient, and I am here to-day, craving
all forbearance if I fail to satisfy the unspoken desires which
attend this office. I am indeed borne down when I think how
Vast a concourse of learners and workers in all lands are, in
spirit, if not in body, attending here to-day to testify with
gladness and gratitude the -depth of iheir debt to the departed.
.Yet I must not shrink from adding a few more words of a

personal and private character.

     It is many years since I first became acquainted with
Herbert Spencer, and more than a score since our acquaintance
became more intimate and my opportunities of intercourse
more frequent and more fruitful by my entering into a family
of which he had been an habitual guest and honoured friend.
Women of that family are here to-day in whose earliest recol-
lection Mr. Spencer's personality dwells, who passed from
childhood to girlhood, from girlhood to womanhood, under
his eye, and to whom his death is the passing away of the
last survivor of the grown-up people into whose society they
were born. Their memories have in some measure become
my own, and upon the advantage thus secured friendship grew
and sympathy increased, a sympathy in respect to public affairs
1902-03]  The Close of Life  479

never so great, so animated, and so helpful as in the years
which have quite recently passed.

     The first thought of every one musing over the life of
Spencer must be that of admiration for the vastness of the
work he planned for himself and of gratitude and even joy
that he lived to see his self-ordained task completed. Rarely
or never in the history of thought have we seen so vast a
conception carried forward by a single man into execution.
The syllabus which he issued in the year 1860, inviting support

to his undertaking, must have appeared to many readers a dream

that could never be translated into reality. A thousand chances,
apart from a failure in the pertinacity or resolution of the
planner, might be counted against the fulfilment of his plans.
We know, indeed, that such evil chances soon asserted them-
selves. A delicacy of constitution of which, having regard to
his long years, Spencer himself was, perhaps, too sensible,
threatened to interfere with, if not to arrest altogether, the
progress of his work.

     The support he received was inadequate to meet the charges
of his undertaking, and his means were being consumed at a
rate which would soon exhaust them. This second hindrance
was more easily set aside than the first. A circular, intimating
that the work must be suspended, quickly brought a sufficiency
of help. Spencer had already obtained more readers and more
disciples than he knew, and friends across the Atlantic united
in offering aid substantial enough to remove anxieties. As the
result proved, a continually growing sale of his books quickly
afforded all needful support, and the special response to his
appeal was scarcely necessary.

     Indifferent health proved a more lasting difficulty. He was
reduced to working very few hours a day, and sometimes to
abstaining altogether from work for considerable intervals. The
wonder is that with the moderate allotment .that was possible
so much work was done. Thirty-six years did indeed pass
from the first announcement of the undertaking before the
final volume was issued. But what a range of inquiry, what an
accumulation of illustrations, what a width of generalization do

the volumes of the series not cover.

     All history, all science, all the varying forms of thought and
belief, all the institutions of all the stages of man's progress
were brought together, and out of this innumerable multitude

of data emerged one coherent, luminous, and vitalizing concep-
tion of the evolution of the world. It is this harmony issuing
out of many apparent discords, this oneness of movement
flowing through and absorbing endless eddies and counter-
streams and back currents, that constitutes Spencer's greatest
glory and caused the multiplying army of readers of Spencer's
successive volumes to feel the joy of discovering a great and
ennobling vision of progress hitherto unrealized.
480 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP, xxvin.

          in later years, some sense of the limitation of the inquiry
If,
                 if
has supervened, some feeling has arisen of the insufficiency
of the explanations offered, of some steps in the proof, some
apprehension of gaps uncovered in the synthesis, there still
remains throughout all the varied populations of the civilized
world the abiding, undiminished conviction of great gain
                                                                    a
realized, of new plane of thought surmounted and mastered,a
                                                                                it
new footholds of speculation secured which will never be lost

in the education of man and the development of society.
Admiration of the range of his inquiry, of the vigour of his

analysis, of the scope and comprehension of his great theory,
must be our first impression in reviewing Spencer's work, yet

must      never be forgotten that his one overmastering and
      it
                         it
                             It
dominant purpose was practical, social, human. Let                                  be

noted that when seemed too probable that his life would
not endure to complete his design in all its parts, he broke off
the sociological analysis to reach forward to the right deter-
mination of the bases of individual and political ethics. To lay
the foundation of these on bed-rocks of truth had always been

his ultimate purpose.            was indicated in the first sketch of his

proposed labours, and when preparatory clearances threatened
to overwhelm him, he left these works to achieve the essential

purpose of his plan. The leading principle of his previous

inquiries gave him the clue to the solution of this final problem.
The self-adjustment of forces, which he had found explaining

all cosmic -movements, had parallel in the self-adjustment of
                                 a

                                                         it
the forces through the working of which has been developed
the society of man. In Spencer's vision
                                                             seemed inevitable

that this should lead him to the highest exaltation of the worth
of individual freedom, and to contest with all his energy the
interference of the rules of the many with the growth of the
one. We may be permitted to cling to the faith that this

conception presents a true aspect of ultimate evolution and
yet must be admitted that not many of us could accompany            ;;
aSpencer in all the thoroughness of the immediate application
                                            we know but imperfectly         is
      itof his principles to society as is.If
                                 I
what we are, and know not yet what we shall be, we may stillit
believe in the ultimate realization of a perfect order without

coercion, and of the service that shall be perfect freedom and

we may be bold to insist that meanwhile the presumption
against interference, the justification of which
                                                             is     burden to be

                                                                 a

discharged.

Spencer, indeed, in his late years sadly took note of move-
ments apparently in contradiction to the leading principles
                                                        conversation within
of his doctrines, and here may recall       a
                                               a
week of his death between him and friend who had once

abceteionn.who" lWly e  with    him, but had latterly   leant to    Collectivist
                          have   been separated," said   Spencer,   " but we
                                                                    if

have been moving along different lines, know we have both
                                            I
1902-03]            The Close of Life                                             481

been moving to the same end." u Yes," she replied it was
a woman who showed that divergence
detach her from offices of tenderness and               of  loopvienion"   could   not
                                                        of                and it  may

be that in time some other method of attacking the great
problem will be                     which   will
nor wholly ours."   ad"opYteesd,,  it may          be   neither wholly yours
                                           be,"   said  Spencer, thus reveal-

ing in the last week of his life a mind open to receive new

suggestions and to accept new proposals of change.

to  Standing here   by these poor remains so soon to be reduced
    " two handfuls  of white dust," we are irresistibly drawn on

to accompanying Spencer in his last brave effort to scrutinize
the implacable facts of life. The last chapter of his last book
grapples with
ment on the    ultimate  questions and propounds his final judg-
               " Riddle   of the Universe." No record can be

more candid, no confession more striking than that in which

he is even appalled by the thought of space with its infinite

extension and everlasting laws enduring before evolution and
creation, declared things as they are. What is the place of man
in this great vision ? The brain so full and so powerful has
ceased to act. There is no longer any manifestation of con-
sciousness. Can consciousness survive after the organ on which
it depended has ceased to be ? Is the personality that dwelt
in this poor frame to be admitted as in itself indestructible ?

Or must we acquiese in its reabsorption in the infinite, the
ever-abiding, the ineffable energy of which it was a passing

spark ? If indestructible in the future, must it not have
been as incapable of coming into existence as it is incap-
able of ceasing to be ? Our master knew not. He could not

tell.

       The last enigma defies our question. The dimensions of the
unknown may be reduced through successive ages, but com-
pared with our slender discoveries, estimated at the best, a

vastness that remains must ever overawe us. Some fringes of

the unknowable may yet prove to be capable of being known,

but the great central secret lies beyond our apprehension. Yet
two thoughts remain. If the night cometh in which no man
can work, we may work while it is day. If we can work, it is
somehow within our power to work for what is noble, for what
is inspiring, for what is broadening, deepening, and strengthen-
ing the life of man. We may devote our lives to the service

of supreme goodness. Looking back on the years of Spencer
we may say that he thus worked, he thus dedicated himself

as truly and as bravely as any man enjoying the solace of a
more definite creed. To this spirit, then, whose work
survives, whose words yet speak, the wave of whose influence
can yet pass from generation to generation, we may say
in all the fulness of interpretation which the phrase can
bear u Farewell."
4$ 2 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP, xxvul.

     In the afternoon of the same day the ashes were con-
veyed to Highgate Cemetery and deposited in the sarco-
phagus which he had kept in readiness for some years.
The stone, in accordance with his directions, bears only
his name, the dates of his birth and death, and his age.

     The sense of loss was widespread and profound, as was
evident from the letters that came from all parts of the
world. Societies at home and abroad vied with one
another in their eagerness to pay a tribute to his memory.
From Italy condolences were sent by both the Government
and the Chamber of Deputies. The Italian Ambassador
telegraphed :

     I have been instructed by the Minister of Public Instruction
to express the profound regret of the Italian nation for the
death of Mr. Herbert Spencer, whose noble life, entirely
devoted to the highest aims of philosophy and science, has
been an object of deep admiration for all Italian students.

     The resolution of the Italian Chamber of Deputies,
which was communicated to the Marquess of Lansdowne,
Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, by His Majesty's
Ambassador at Rome, and by the Italian Ambassador
in London, expressed the condolence of the Chamber with
1902-03]            The Close of Life                      483

the British Government and the great and friendly nation

on the death of Herbert Spencer.               made at the
     In accordance with an announcement

cremation a sum of _i,ooo was presented to the University

of Oxford, by Mr. Shyamaji Krishnavarma to found a
Herbert Spencer Lectureship. Three annual lectures have

already been delivered by Mr. Frederic Harrison in 1905,

by the late Hon. Auberon Herbert in 1906, and by Mr.

Francis Galton in 1907. A movement was also made for
the purpose of raising some fitting memorial, national or

international, to be placed, if permission were granted, in

Westminster Abbey. The following is the correspondence

that took place on the proposal.

                              I.

To THE VERY REV. THE DEAN OF WESTMINSTER.

DEAR SIR,                                30 May, 1904.

We beg to place in your hands herewith a memorial

letter addressed to yourself and bearing the signature of those
whose names are given in the accompanying list. The original
signatures to the form of memorial circulated for this purpose
are also enclosed.
In asking you to give consideration to the matter referred

to in the memorial, we desire to point out that those who have
attached their names have done so in their individual capacities,
and not as representatives of any .public body or office.

                    We are, dear Sir,
                    Yours obediently,
                                  R. MELDOLA,
                    (Signed)

                                  GEOFFREY S. WILLIAMS.

                                        II.

        To THE VERY REV. THE DEAX OF WESTMINSTER.

      DEAR SIR,

             A number of the friends, admirers and disciples of the
late Mr. Herbert Spencer, being of opinion that some fitting
memorial should be raised in this country in recognition of his
lifelong devotion to philosophical studies and of his influence
upon contemporary thought throughout the world, have come
to the conclusion that Westminster Abbey would be an appro-
priate place for the reception of such a memorial.

     In view of the important and stimulating effect of Mr.
Spencer's writings in the domains of Philosophy, Science, and
484 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxvm.

Education, we whose signatures are appended feel justified in
approaching you with the request that, in the event of an inter-
national fund being raised for this purpose, you would grant the
necessary space in the Abbey.

                                         We are, Sir,
                                                      Yours obediently,

List of Signatures lo the Letter to the Dean of Westminster.

His Grace The Duke of DEVONSHIRE, K.G., Chancellor of the

       University of Cambridge.                         etc.,
The Rt. Hon. Lord AVEBURY, P.C., D.C.L., LL.D.. F.R.S.
The Rt. Hon. Lord HOBHOUSE, P.C., K.C.S.I., C.I.E.

The Rt. Hon. Lord REAY, G.C.S.I., G.C.I. E., LL.D.,
President of the British Academy ; President University
College, London.
S. ALEXANDER, M.A., Professor of Philosophy, Victoria Univer-

       sity, Manchester.

T. CLIFFORD ALLBUTT, M.D., F.R.S., Regius Professor of
       Physic, University of Cambridge.
The Rev. T. G. BONNEY, D.Sc., LL.D., F.R.S., Honorary Canon
of Manchester, Emeritus Professor of Geology, University
College, London.

THOMAS BOWMAN, M.A., Warden of Merton College, Oxford.
E. CAIRD, LL.D., D.C.L., etc., Master of Balliol College,
Oxford.

EDWARD CLODD, Esq.
F. HOWARD COLLINS, Esq.
The Rt. Hon. LEONARD H. COURTNEY, P.C.
A. W. W. DALE, M.A., Vice-Chancellor of the University of

       Liverpool.
The Rev. C. H. O. DANIEL, M.A., Provost of Worcester College,
Oxford.

FRANCIS DARWIN, Esq., M.A., M.B., Foreign Secretary of the
       Royal Society.
G. H. 'DARWIN, LL.D., D.Sc., F.R.S., Plumian Professor of

       Astronomy, University of Cambridge.
The Rt. Hon. Sir MOUNTSTUART E. GRANT DUFF, G.C.S.I., P.C.,
F.R.S.
The Rev. A. M. FAIRBAIRN, M.A., D.D., LL.D., Litt.D., etc.,
       Principal of Mansfield College, Oxford.
Sir MICHAEL FOSTER, K.C.B., M.P., V.P.R.S., late Professor of

       Physiology, University of Cambridge.
The Rev. THOMAS FOWLER, D.D., LL.D.. President Corpus
       Christi College, Oxford ; formerly Professor of Logic in
       the University.
The Rev. J. FRANCK BRIGHT, D.D., Master of University College,
       Oxford.

FRANCIS GALTON, D.C.L.. F.R.S., etc.
1902-03]    The Close of Life  485

The Rev. T. H. GROSE, M.A., Registrar, University of Oxford.
The Rt. Hon. R. B. HALDAXE, K.C., M.P., LL.D.
The Rev. D. HAMILTON, D.D., President of Queen's College,

        Belfast.

C. B. HEBERDEX, M.A., Principal of Brasenose College, Oxford.
ALEX HILL, M.A., M.D., J.P., Master of Downing College,

       Cambridge.

Sir JOSEPH DALTOX HOOKER, G.C.S.I., C.B., D.C.L., LL.D., etc.,
       Past President of the Royal Society.

A. HOPKIXSOX, K.C., LL.D., Vice-Chancellor of the Victoria

University, Manchester.
Sir WILLIAM HUGGIXS, K.C.B., O.M., F.R.S., etc., President of

       the Royal Society.
H. JACKSOX, Litt.D., LL.D., Fellow and Praslector in Ancient

      Philosophy, Trinity College, Cambridge.
The Rev. B. W. JACKSOX, D.D., Rector of Exeter College,
Oxford.

The Very Rev. J. H. LAXG, D.D., Vice-Chancellor and Principal
       of the University, Aberdeen.
G. D. LIVEIXG, M.A., D.Sc., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry,

University of Cambridge.
Sir J. NORMAX LOCKYER, K.C.B., F.R.S., etc., President of the
       British Association.

The Rev. J. R. MAGRATH, D.D., Provost of Queen's College,
       Oxford.
A. MARSHALL, M.A., LL.D., Professor of Political Economy,

       University of Cambridge.
The Rev. W. W. MERRY, D.D., Rector of Lincoln College,
Oxford.

HEXRY A. MIERS. D.Sc., F.R.S., Waynflete Professor of Minera-
       logy, University of Oxford.
The Rt. Rev. J. MITCHIXSOX, D.D., D.C.L., Master of Pembroke

       College, Oxford ; Canon of Gloucester, formerly Bishop of

Barbadoes.
D. B. MOXRO, LL.D., etc., Vice-Chancellor, University of
       Oxford ; Provost of Oriel College.
C. LLOYD MORGAX, LL.D., F.R.S., Principal of University
       College, Bristol.
JOHX H. MUIRHEAD, M.A.. LL.D., Professor of Philosophy, the

       University, Birmingham.
                               Christ's College, Cambridge.
J. PEILE, Litt.D., Master of  F.S.A., LL.D., Camden Professor  of
HEXRY F. PELHAM, M.A.,
      Ancient History and President of Trinity College, Oxford.
EDWARD B.'Poui/rox, D.Sc., F.R.S., Hope Professor of Zoology,
       Oxford ; President of the Entomological Society, London.
H. R. REICHEL, M.A., LL.D.. Principal of University College,

        Bangor.

J. S. REID, M.A., LL.M., Litt.D., Professor of Ancient History,

        University^ of Cambridge.
   486 Lije of Herbert Spencer [CHAP, xxvni.

   JOHN RHYS, M.A., Litt.D., Principal of Jesus College, Oxford.
   F. F. ROBERTS, M.A., Principal of University College, Aberyst-

          with.
   W. R. SORLEY, M.A., LL.D., Knightsbridge Professor of Moral

          Philosophy, University of Cambridge.
   The Rev. W. A. SPOONER, M.A., Warden of New College,

          Oxford.
   The Rev. J. E. SYMES, M.A., Principal of University College,

          Nottingham.
   Sir WILLIAM TURNER, K.C.B., D.C.L., Vice-Chancellor and

          Principal of the University, Edinburgh.
   JAMES WARD, M.A., D.Sc., LL.D., Professor of Mental Philo-

          sophy, University of Cambridge.
   W. ALDIS WRIGHT, M.A., LL.D., D.C.L., Vice-Master, Trinity

           College, Cambridge.
   The Rev. P. A. WRIGHT-HENDERSON, M.A., Warden of Wadham

          College, Oxford.

                                 III.

              To PROFESSOR MELDOLA.

                                 DEANERY, WESTMINSTER.

                                       17 June, 1904.

   DEAR SIR,
   When you first approached me privately with reference
   to a proposal to commemorate the late Mr. Herbert Spencer
   in Westminster Abbey, I replied in accordance with precedent
   that, if a formal request reached me stating the grounds on
   which the application rested and signed by a few weighty
   names, it would be my duty to give it grave consideration. I
   added for your guidance that it would be necessary that I
   should satisfy myself upon the two following questions :
        (1) Whether Mr. Herbert Spencer's contribution to English
   thought is of such importance as to merit the assignment to
   him of one of the very few vacant spaces which are now avail-
   able in the Abbey for the commemoration of the most dis-

   tinguished of our countrymen ; and
        (2) Whether Mr. Herbert Spencer's attitude towards Chris-

   tianity, as expressed in his writings, may be rightly described
   as one of suspense rather than hostility, and one which does
   not make it inappropriate that his memorial should be placed
   in a Christian church. I said further, that on coming to a
   decision on these two points I should not be guided entirely
   by my own judgment, but should seek the aid of persons who
   would be recognized as experts.
       The letter which has now reached me refers to Mr. Herbert
   Spencer's "lifelong devotion to philosophical studies and his
                                   thought throughout  the whole
'  influence upon contemporary   the request upon the  stimulating
   world," and proceeds to base
1902-03]  The Close of Life                                487

effect of Mr. Spencer's \viitings in the domains of Philosophy,
Science and Education. With these expressions of apprecia-
tion of Mr. Spencer's work I think that there would be a very
general agreement, especially in view of the service which he
rendered in familiarizing the public mind with the general con-
ception of Evolution, and in applying that conception with

great courage to various departments of human thought and

activity. But I observe that the memorialists do not claim that
Mr. Spencer has or will have a high place as a philosophical
thinker. When I ask with what important achievement in
philosophy or in natural science, or with what permanent
contribution to thought his name is destined to be connected,
I meet with no satisfactory reply. His philosophical system
has called forth the severest criticism, and his views in various

branches of knowledge, physical as well as metaphysical, are
severely challenged by experts. Eminent he was in his own
generation, and stimulating in a high degree. But these charac-
teristics, apart from the enduring quality of work, do not con-
stitute the highest claim to a national homage which is now
necessarily restricted to a very few ; and I have failed to find
evidence that the results which Mr. Spencer has achieved are

such as are certain to command recognition in the future.
After what has been said it is unnecessary to enter into the
question whether Westminster Abbey as a place of Christian
worship could appropriately receive the monument of a thinker
who expressly excluded Christianity from his system of thought.
It may be right that I should say that this question is answered
in the negative by some thoughtful men who differ very widely
in religious opinion. At the same time I should wish to recog-
nise the notable softening of his earlier asperity towards reli-
gious systems which marks the closing pages of Mr. Spencer's

Autobiography.

     For the reason which I have given above I am compelled
to decline the proposal, notwithstanding the distinguished
signatures by which it is commended. In doing this I would
plead for forbearance on the part of those who will think my
decision to be wrong, on the ground that if I have erred it is

on the side of caution in the discharge of a great responsibility,
and that a mistake of refusal in matters of this kind can be

honourably repaired by a future generation.
     I beg that you will be good enough to convey this reply to

the signatories of the letter.

          I remain, your obedient servant.

          (Signed)              J. ARMITAGE ROBIXSON,
                                         Dean of Westminster.

     Bearing in mind Spencer's sensitive and high-minded
nature and his well-known views on the subject of honours,
488 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP, xxvin.

the present writer would have preferred to pass over in

silence the refusal of Dean Robinson to admit any memorial

of Spencer into Westminster Abbey a refusal, be it said,
couched in perfectly courteous and dignified terms. But

silence might be interpreted as acquiescence in the Dean's

judgment upon Spencer's position in the world of thought.

On the question whether Spencer had "a high place as a

philosophical thinker," it seems enough to say that it may

reasonably be assumed that the many very distinguished

men of science, philosophy, and letters mentioned above

were fully aware of the exceptional nature of their request,

and that they deliberately, honestly, and    without any  mental
reservation, subscribed their names to       the opinion   " that

Westminster Abbey would be an appropriate place for the
reception" of the memorial. If it was difficult to understand

the Dean's decision at the time, it has been rendered much

more difficult  since. In May,    1"90th4e,  the Dean refused   to
a philosopher                                 highest claim to   a
                  recognition of

national homage which is now necessarily restricted to a

very few"; in October, 1905, he conceded that recognition

to an actor. This incident alone would justify Hegel's

famous taunt about the value set upon philosophy in

England.

     Whether memorials in Westminster         Abbey should be con-
fined to " those who profess and call        themselves Christians"

is a question which it would be out of place to discuss here ;
but the readers of this volume will recall some of the many
occasions on which Spencer felt called upon to suspend his

work in order to try to convert Christians to Christianity.
                                       4S9

                   CHAPTER XXIX.

             CHARACTERISTICS AND PERSONAL
                            REMINISCENCES.

     OXE of the most striking features of Spencer's character

was the small weight he attached to authority or, to be more
exact, his utter disregard of it. The same trait was possessed

by his father, but in a less marked degree ; and though his
mother displayed the opposite temperament, he himself was
inclined to think that a strain of nonconformity had been
inherited by him from her recusant ancestry. As he grew

up to manhood, the constitutional proneness to set authority

at defiance became less an instinctive impulse and more a
matter of principle. The tendency for those in power to
abuse their position became a settled conviction. Authority
had therefore to be jealously watched. When it attempted
to restrict his individual liberty, it was firmly resisted, and
when it encroached on the liberty of others, their efforts to
withstand it claimed his sympathy. Without waiting to
acquaint himself with the rights and wrongs of a dispute

between those in authority and those subject to his first

impulse was to take the part of the latter.

     In his thinking as well as in his acting, he set authority
at naught. Unlike Mr. Gladstone, of whom Mr. Morley
           a
NOTE i. This chapter                                 is

                                                                             is
                                                                                               a

                                                                                           it,

                                                                                                                     in

                                                                                                                                                                      :
                                       largely based upon contributions from

many of Spencer's personal friends not always distinguishable in typo-
graphical arrangement from the biographer's own narrative. This will
explain certain amount of unavoidable repetition.

NOTE 2. For published reminiscences of Spencer written by three
men who knew him intimately, the reader referred to the following
"Personal Reminiscences" by Grant Allen, written in 1894 and
              in the Forum for  April     June,
publis"hAed  Character Study"     by   William   1904.   Hudson,  Fortnightly

                                                  Henry

Review for January, 1904.              Collier, forming  chapter  Josiah
      "Reminiscences" by James
Royce's Herbert Spencer. Fox, Duffield and Co., New York, 1904.
49 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxix.

says (i., 202) that "in every field of thought and life he

started from the principle of authority," Spencer never

began by attempting to learn what had already been said.
His aversion from reading, which he himself attributed to

constitutional idleness, was probably due largely to indif-
ference to other men's opinions. " All my life long I have

been a thinker, and not a reader, being able to say with
Hobbes that ' if I had read as much as other men I should

have known as little'."

His disregard of authority, human or divine, was dis-

regard of personal authority only, and was accompanied by

whole-hearted fealty to principles. His profound respect

for the impersonal authority of principles in human affairs

had its complement in a reverence for Divine impersonal

authority. State ceremonial and ecclesiastical ceremonial

were alike distasteful. To pay homage to royal persons while

showing little respect for the principles that underlie human
society, drew from him the reproof : " It is so disloyal." To

bend the knee and utter praise to a Divine person, while

ignoring the principles of  r"elIitgioisn    and morality,   met with
a similar condemnation :                   so irreligious."    One of

his most cherished sentiments found expression in what he

wrote for the album of autographs and sentiments to be

published in Italy at the fourth centenary of the discovery
of America : " Be their rank or position what it may, from

Emperors and Kings downwards, those who have done

nothing for their fellow-men I decline to honour. I honour

those only who have benefited mankind, and as one of

them I honour Columbus."

Though the moral imperative had not to array itself with

the adventitious insignia of personal authority, before it was

obeyed, he recognized that personal authority was necessary

at a certain stage in the development of the individual
and the race. He himself outgrew this stage between his

eighteenth and twenty-first year. Referring to the change

that took place in his own character during these three

years, he says in a memorandum :

    This transformation was, I doubt not, due to the falling
into conditions more appropriate to my nature. There are
those to whom life under authority, with more or less of
CHAP, xxix.] Characteristics and Reminiscences 491

coercion, is both needful and wholesome, and in whom there
is produced by it no distortion of moral attitude. There are
others better fitted for self-regulation, less needing control,
and to whom control is proportionately repugnant, and in
whom by consequence, control is the cause of perpetual
charing and restiveness and a more or less abnormal state. All
through my boyhood and up to the time I left home this was
the case with me ; and as soon as the restraints and the irrita-
tion consequent upon them were removed, a more healthful
tone of feeling arose, and a beneficial change began, which
had, it seems, at the date I name, become very marked. This
trait of nature is evidently the same trait which I have just
indicated in the description of my religious, or rather irreligious,
condition of mind, as also in the tendencies above described
to criticize the doings of those in authority, and to originate
new plans or invent new appliances. Emotional nature is
an all-important factor in the direction taken by intellectual
activity. To discover, or to invent, implies a relatively large
amount of self-confidence, and therefore a relatively smaller
respect for authority ; and this relatively small amount of
reverence, which runs throughout the conduct towards human
beings, is shown also in aversion to that current theory of the
universe which makes it the product of a being who demands
incessant homage.

     The habit of seeking for a cause for every phenomenon
was being formed by the time he was thirteen. And as
the idea of the universality of natural causation became
confirmed, the idea of the supernatural, as ordinarily con-
ceived, became impossible to be entertained. The current
theological creed insensibly grew to be alien to his con-
victions. As his father wrote in 1860 : " It appears to
me that the laws of nature are to him what revealed religion
is to us, and that any wilful infraction of those laws is to
him as much a sin, as to us is disbelief in what is revealed."
At what time the change took place Spencer could not say, as
it had no marked stages. It was unobtrusively going on
during the Worcester life. Though in Facts and Comments
there are indications of a fuller recognition of the reason-
ableness of religion as a factor in human life, there are
no indications of any return to his boyhood's acceptance of
a personal Providence intervening in the affairs of the
world. His position was frankly agnostic, negation being
as unwarranted as affirmation. The mysteries of existence
remained mysteries to the last. Though he did not accept
49 2 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxix.

the dogmas of any creed, he was, in the truest sense,
religious. " In private life," says Mr. Trough ton, " he re-
frained from obtruding his heterodox views upon others,
nor have I ever known him give utterance to any language
which could possibly be construed as ' scoffing.' . . . The
name of the Founder of Christianity always elicited his
profound respect." Mr. Troughton recalls more than one
occasion on which Spencer strongly condemned language
which appeared irreverent.

     He had an abundant share of self-confidence. The
possible failure of any of his many inventions was seldom
taken into account. His doctrines were from the outset

deemed secure against attack, notwithstanding repeated
experiences of having to modify, or enlarge, or restrict, his
previous expositions. More reading and less thinking
more observation and experiment, and less speculation
would have shaken his confidence in some of his conclu-
sions ; but would also have caused him to tread with a
less firm step the long road he marked out for himself. Self-
confidence, however, is natural to all, diffidence comes only
with experience of obstacles. Most of us are so familiarized
with objections, prohibitions, and troublesome facts, that
the idea of another side to what we think, no less than to

what we do, is never altogether absent. On Spencer,
accustomed to think and act for himself, " the other side "

did not obtrude. Hence occasional dogmatism ; hence also
proneness to treat critics and criticisms in a somewhat
cavalier fashion.

     He was slow to form a friendship ; but, once formed, it
\vas not likely to be broken through disregard on his part of
even the least of its claims. Several of his closest friend-
ships were with those who had little or no sympathy witli
his doctrines : as for example, with Mr. Richard Potter, on
whose constant affection he had entire dependence. With
reference to this Lady Courtney of Penwith writes :

     My mother argued with him a good deal, my father never.
It is rather curious that, considering the affection between the
two men, and Mr. Spencer's generous appreciation of my
father's practical sense and genial and expansive nature, the
latter never read Mr. Spencer's books. My father loved an
emotion or a sentiment, and understood the concrete ; but he
CHAP, xxix.] Characteristics and Reminiscences                         493

had a rooted distrust of abstract ideas, and not much confi-

dence in deductions which depended upon sustained argument ;
and I can still hear him cheerily ending one of these arguments
with : " Won't work, Spencer ; won't work, my dear fellow."
After I was grown up, I remember vividly an incident illustrat-
ing Mr. Spencer's good-humoured acceptance of this attitude
of his friend. My mother and I were sitting in the garden at
Standish, when Mr. Spencer came up to us with an expression

half-annoyed, half-amused, on his face, and said to my mother :
u  I could almost be angry with         husband, Mrs.                  did
    not know him so well." u      your  has he done ?   P" otstaeird,  my
I                                What

mother. Then Mr. Spencer told us how they had been standing
together near a large pond we had, of which my father was
rather proud, when the latter said : '' I wish, Spencer, you
would explain the main points of your philosophy to me, just
shortly." To which Mr. Spencer replied : '' I have been send-
ing you my books these twenty years back ; I know you have
not read them, and it is a little hard to put them all into ten
minutes ; however, I will try,"
u Your husband," continued Mr.   and so    he"   began  to  expound.
                                 Spencer,       seemed  to  be listen-
ing intently, as he gazed into the water, and I thought I had at
least got my friend to give his mind to my ideas. Suddenly
he exclaimed, ' I say, Spencer, are those gudgeon, and rushed
round the pond.' ' ;
   To go back to my childish memory of Mr. Spencer. He
comes back to me as a tall slight man, with a certain air of
personal distinction which made even an old coat look well on

him. There was a dignity perhaps also some .precision in his
manner which discouraged familiarity, and, except when we

were very naughty and in open revolt against our elders, we
treated him with great respect. Not that we did not laugh a
little over his ways, and even argue with him on subjects
of daily life, when we thought we could safely meet him ; and
we got scolded for it too. I remember when quite a small
child, Mr. Spencer coming  dwlooitnwhgnermtoethbalraensatkufnasuisgtahl,tona"en;dmansoadrnyiinnthggat:wmi"thyI
his rather long upper lip
slept badly, Katie argued
remorse was not unmixed with pride that I should so affect

a grown up man.

     He never liked to feel far removed from opportunities of

meeting his friends, though wrhen he knew r they were near
he could do with little of their company. Few things gave
him more satisfaction than to know that the feelings he

cherished towards his friends were reciprocated. Lady

Courtney gives an instance of this in connexion with one
of her last visits to him.
494 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxix.

I had come armed with all the news I could collect of

people he had known, whom I had seen at all recently, and,
among others, mentioned the friend whose parents he had so

frequently visited in Scotland, and to whose mother he had
               attached. After                                   from this
been   much    : " She spoke of  giving him a        greeting     f"oDr idyosuh.e"
lady,                             her mother's        affection
       I said                                                    accurately
                                                      eagerly :
He started up      i"n  bed, coloured up, and  said  words as
really say that ?       ; and when I repeated  the
as I could remember them, he lay back looking very pleased
and said : u I am very glad to kno\v that. I had a great affec-
tion for Mrs.           [Mrs. Smith], but I never thought she liked

me. I fancied she only asked me because her husband did,

and because she thought it was a duty to add to the pleasures

and health of a man who was doing good work ; but I am
glad, very glad, she liked me for myself." In spite of his great
intellect Mr. Spencer always seemed to me to have a strong
element of the feminine in his character : an element which

manifested itself in the weaknesses, as well as in the attractive

qualities, of his personality.

     The Athenaeum was greatly prized, among other reasons,
because there he could frequently for many years almost
daily see his friends. The present writer remembers
Spencer's unusual elation the morning he received intima-
tion of his election. Readers of the Autobiography might be
inclined to doubt whether a man of his habits could readily

adapt himself to a kind of life so foreign to his experience
as that of a London Club, but for thirty-seven years he was
an acceptable member of one of those institutions in which
absolutely democratic principles have to be reconciled with
a nice regard for the feelings and comfort of others. The
Club became more of a home to him than his own resi-

dence. He tells us that in the beginning of 1868 there
occurred " an incident of moment to me, affecting greatly
my daily life throughout the future." This was his admis-

sion as a member of the Athenaeum, under the provisions

of a rule whereby the Committee each year elect not more
than nine persons of " distinguished eminence in science,

literature or the arts, or for public services," and the elec-
tion must be unanimous. The names of the other eight
members elected in the same year were : Mr. W. R. Greg
and Professor David Masson, being representative of litera-
ture ; Mr. (afterwards Sir) Charles Halle, of music ; Mr.
W. Holman Hunt, of Art ; Mr. (now Sir) C. R. Markham,
CHAP. xxix. j Characteristics and Reminiscences 495

          Sir William Palliser, and Colonel Sir Arthur Phayre,
for public services; and Colonel W. J. Smyth, F.R.S., of
science. Two of the number, Mr. W. Holman Hunt and
Sir C. R. Markham, still survive. Spencer valued the dis-
tinction of election to the Athenaeum Club by the Com-
mittee very highly, and it was the sole recognition of merit
which he accepted.

     When in London he used to go to the Athenaeum
almost daily, and occupied himself in looking at the weekly
papers, glancing at the magazines, and skimming the new
books, to see what was going on. Occasionally he read
novels, but only by instalments. Biographies and histories
he passed over, but travels had an attraction for him as
containing materials for his work. Books dealing with

sociology, philosophy, and theology were scanned, both
for observing the current of opinion, and also to notice
adverse criticism of his views. He was sensitive to anything
in the way of misrepresentation and always took action

at once, saying he kept in mind the proverb: "Give a
start to a lie and you can never overtake it." He used the
library for purposes of reference, and never spared time
or trouble in verifying facts and statements. An hour or
two every afternoon was passed at the billiard table, for
which he offered no excuse. He simply liked the game.
He was not displeased to have his own dexterity acknow-

ledged, and once modestly boasted that his best break
had been one of 47.

     In May, 1874, he was chosen a member of the Com-
mittee, "and for a long subsequent time continued to take
an active part in the administration of the Club." He
scarcely missed a meeting, and gave much thought and
attention to the smallest details of domestic management,
as well as to the more dignified elective duties under the
rule above mentioned. He had an extraordinary acquaint-

ance with facts of practical value, and loved to discuss

the art of tea-making and kitchen administration on
philosophical principles. This does not suggest a very
pliable committee-man, but Spencer had more good sense
and forbearance in social intercourse than he gave himself
credit for. With his usual habit of severe self-judgment
he accuses himself of want of tact as a committee-man,
                   Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxix.

and mentions how on one occasion Sir Frederick Elliott,
an influential member and ex- Indian official, by means
of suavity and cautiousness of expression, carried a motion
which Spencer had not been able to accomplish. " Let me
add that, though I sometimes failed in my aims from want
of tact, I frequently succeeded by persistence." That his
services were valued may be seen in the fact that although
the usual term of service was three years, and a year must
have elapsed before one who had served could become
once more eligible, yet he was one of a special committee
appointed at the Annual Meeting, and was then elected
for a second term. He was thus connected with club
business for seven consecutive years. He had long been

a member of the London Library Committee. "At this

my attendances were far less regular. I suppose in part
because the administrative business, neither so extensive

nor so complex, attracted me less."
     In many respects Spencer was a model club-man. In

his relations with his fellow members he invariably showed
delicacy and good feeling. It is not enough to say that
he was strictly courteous, but he realized that the true spirit
of club etiquette is for a man to behave with the studied
decorum of one who is living not in his own house, but
rather in the house of a friend. In his manners and bear-
ing he showed plenty of that tactful good nature in which
he thought himself deficient. He never offended anyone
by loud speech, injudicious remarks, or incautious behaviour
and was ever most punctilious in adhering to the small
unwritten laws upon which so much of the comfort of

club life depends.
     His craving for companionship and . his hospitable

impulses were always struggling against the limits which
health and work imposed on social intercourse. As he
writes in 1870 : " I find more and more that I can manage
pretty well when I am master of my circumstances ; but
when the circumstances master me, I am pretty sure to go
to the wall." His morbid fear of the results of excitement

greatly restricted his personal intercourse with guests, some
of whom have been known during a visit of several days
duration not to have seen him once. Yet no host could
have been more solicitous tor the comfort of his guests
CHAP, xxix.] Characteristics and Reminiscences 497

than he was. When in ordinary health he entered with:
zest into the amusements of the domestic circle. " He could
thoroughly enjoy a good story," says Miss Killick, " andit,
his powers of relating one were splendid." I have heard
him repeat a poem of considerable length ' The Northern
Lights' giving it in the Lancashire dialect with great
charm. He enjoyed the humour of it so much that the
tears streamed down his face." His conversation was

singularly free from personal gossip, and invariably rose to
the general point of view. Seldom adorned by graces of
style, it was always fluent, correct, and clear : his deep
rich voice adding to the charm. The gift of lucid ex-

position was shown in his conversation as much as in his

writings. Mr. Frank E. Lott mentions a visit in 1871 "to

Penrhyn Slate quarries with Sir W. Gull and Sir James
Paget, at which Mr. Spencer pointed out the glacial scratches
on some of the rounded rocks in the Pass of Llanberis ; and
his clear and vigorous description of the old glacier coming
down from Snowdon, impressed me even more than when,
a few years later at the School of Mines, Sir Andrew

Ramsay explained the same phenomena in his usual inter-

esting manner."
     He cannot be accused of going out of his way to

increase his reputation. From his replies to offers of

academic and other honours, one may gather that there was

at bottom a sense of disappointment that such signs of
recognition had not been made earlier in his career, when
they might have helped him in his struggle. Had he been
less honest and outspoken he would have kept this feeling
to himself. Even such notoriety as could not fail to be

associated with his name was distasteful, leading him to go
out of his way to avoid the manifestations of and causing
regret, and sometimes offence, to those who wished to show

their regard for him. Lady Courtney writes

We did not realize Mr. Spencer's reputation till we grew
up and came often to London. Probably his fame was not
                                            seemed to me
great in general society before that time.  It
                                                             Iwas

                                                                           a
to culminate during the seventies and early eighties.
conscious during those years that you could not mention his
name in many companies high or low without exciting
thrill of interest, and even in the most unlikely quarters his

32
498 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxix.

name would be known as that of a distinguished man. I
remember travelling from Aberdeen to Inverness in a third

class carriage (not that this in Scotland was an unlikely quarter),
and hearing some Scotch farmers, and a minister from a far
away northern village, discussing his books, and finding myself
unawares quite a centre of attraction when I remarked that
I knew him in the flesh. But he was far from kind to his

disciples and admirers, and very disconcerting to those who had
contrived to gain a sight or a word for them. He has himself
...told the story how, when at Cairo, he refused the request of a
distinguished personage for a visit.  I can add another story
of the same period a Dutch Judge of the Consular Courts was
a great Spencerian, and his wife came to my sister and myself,
to beg us to bring about a meeting. We thought and thought,
and finally hit upon a moonlight ride to the Tombs of the
Prophets. Mr. Spencer readily agreed, and the Judge, though
he had not ridden for years, and was decidedly stout, eagerly
accepted the invitation to join in. We started, and Mr.
Spencer's admirer sidled up to him and began with much
pomp a carefully prepared sentence. He was hardly under
way when up came the Egyptian donkey boys yelling and
hitting, and awray went the donkeys in various directions, and
so the comedy went on all the time. Finally, Mr. Spencer
absolutely refused to go to supper with our kind Dutch friends.
We went and found all his books spread out on the tables a
pathetic disappointment to the poor gentleman, who was doubt-

less very stiff the next morning after his unwonted exercise.
People talk of Mr. Spencer as having a large measure of
egotism, and he certainly did not conceal, as most of us do,
what he had of that quality ; but a truly vain and self-regard-
ing man would surely not have discouraged admiration and
flattery as he did. Not only did he never seek, but most

ungraciously refused, worldly honours and advancement all
through his long life.

     Again and again he complained of his lack of quick
perception of the motives and actions of others, leading

him to mistaken judgments and wrong courses of conduct.
He thought he would be an easy dupe at a spiritualistic
seance. While deficient in reading the motives of others,
he was singularly wanting in ability to hide his own. He
doubted his power to say " No " ; but few who had to do
with him would accept this as a correct delineation. It
used to be said of the late Sir Bartle Frere, when Governor

of Bombay, that in refusing a request he did so with more
than his usual courtesy, leading the applicant to think he
had got a half promise. Spencer was not in the habit of
CHAP, xxix.] Characteristics and Reminiscences 499

toning clown the terms of a refusal : his reply being usually

more blunt than suave. He thought more of making his

refusal plain  than of how it would be taken : as when
requested by   an American doctor to bequeath to him " the

most perfect and   wonderful   brain of     thi"s   century."    He
did not mince the   terms of  his refusal.         A bequest   such

as that which you wish I would not make even to my
most intimate friend. You may judge, therefore, how little

chance there is that I can be induced to make such a

bequest to a stranger." Perhaps it was a certain brusquerie

of manner and speech, joined with his unemotional cold-

ness that prevented people, on first acquaintance, feeling

quite at ease in his presence. Manner apart, his intellec-

tual and moral superiority could not fail to engender a

feeling of remoteness, which, however, disappeared on

closer acquaintance.

     Though he was not fond of the lower animals, the
infliction of suffering on them was intolerable to him. His

power of sympathy with human beings was exceptionally

strong. Ill-health or distress of any kind, experienced by

relatives, friends, acquaintances (even casual acquaint-
ances), or correspondents whom perhaps he had never

seen, could not be brought to his notice without exciting

his lively interest and leading to measures for alleviation.

Hundreds of letters bear eloquent testimony to the practical
turn his sympathy took. For verbal expressions of sym-

pathy, his undemonstrative character, and his dislike to

exaggeration, unfitted him. As he wrote to a friend who
had recently lost her husband : " I always feel so strongly
my inability to say anything adequate in the way of con-

solation that I am habitually debarred from attempting

it." To the ailing members of his household he was
" kind almost to a fault." Into their personal or family

concerns he entered with sympathetic interest : rejoiced

when they rejoiced, was grieved when things went wrong

with them, warned them against courses which involved

risk, pointed out dangers which they were likely to over-
look ; but never said " I told you so " when his counsel

had not been followed, and the bad consequences he had

foreseen had to be faced. Above all he was considerate

to his domestic servants, there being the fullest recogni-
5OO Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxix.

tion of the moral obligations of the employer. In ill-health
every care and comfort was bestowed upon them. " On
one occasion," writes Miss Killick, " when he was living
in the country for a few months, a young woman had been
engaged to assist in his household, and, observing her pallor
and general lassitude, he gave her strengthening medicine,
which, however, proved of small assistance, and she had
to discontinue work and return to her home. Mr. Spencer

himself drove over one afternoon to see her, and gave her

a donation ; and on hearing that her bedroom was prac-
tically unfurnished sent furniture for it anonymously." He
could never turn his back upon genuine need, nor refuse
to help a worthy person or a worthy cause. Even when
a struggling author, he would pinch himself to help a
friend. His generosity kept pace with the improvement

in his circumstances. To the family of his uncle Henry,
to Derby friends and acquaintances, to young men pre-
paring for the battle of life, he extended a generous hand.
Several who have since taken worthy positions at home
and abroad, still remember him with gratitude. Against
evil of all kinds, writes Rev. J. W. Chadwick, he " pro-

jected himself with an ardour and vehemence strangely
at variance with the idea that a cold, hard, dry intellectu-

ality was exhaustive of the man."
     He often referred to what he called his constitutional

idleness, seeming to be rather proud of it than otherwise.

If intellectual work consists in acquainting oneself with the
opinions of others, the charge may contain an element of
truth. But even in that sense, the man who could gather
together and assimilate the wealth of facts to be found in

his books, cannot have been so wanting in industry as some

of his remarks would make it appear. If there was any

defect of verbal memory it was compensated for by the

readiness to grasp logical relations, as well as the natural

relations of things. His defective memory for words and
arbitrary relations, had, in his own opinion, much to do
with the development of his mind, favouring as it did
internal building up as much as it retarded external build-
ing up. The pleasures of thinking were all the greater that
he did not coerce the mind. His powers of analysis and
synthesis were unsurpassed. He had a rare gift of seizing
CHAP, xxix.] Characteristics and Reminiscences 501

upon the important aspects of a question, and of keeping
the unimportant points in the background. But for this he
could not have marshalled his numerous facts so effectively.
Complaint is sometimes made of the abstractness of his
terms ; but such terms were necessitated by the width of his
generalizations, only a part of the denotation of which would

have been covered by less abstract terms. A more serious
complaint was that he not infrequently passed without
warning from the general and abstract use of a term or pro-
position to the special and concrete, or vice versd, drawing
conclusions which, though warranted in the one case, were

not warranted in the other.
     In some ways he gained, and in others lost, by not

having had the training given by University life, which as
Rev. J. W. Chaclwick says, acts as "a social mill in which
men grind each other's angles down. Spencer's never
were ground down : they were acute angles always." But
argumentative and disputatious as he was, he never argued
for victory. Always there was a principle to be contended
for. Mr. Francis Galton writes :

     Mr. Herbert Spencer's magnificent intellect was governed
by a very peculiar character. It was full of whimsies that
unduly affected the opinion of those who did not appreciate
its depth and purpose. His disposition was acknowledged by
himself to be contentious ; I would venture to consider it also
as being sometimes a little perverse.

     My knowledge of him was chiefly due to our both being
in the habit of spending an afternoon hour or so in the then
smoking room of the Athenaeum Club, which was a very
suitable place for quiet conversation. This is quite altered
now. He always took interest in my hobbies, and I owe much
to his remarks and criticisms, which were not however always
accepted. He loved to dogmatize from a priori axioms, and to
criticize, and I soon found that the way to get the best from
him was to be patient and not to oppose. He was very thin
skinned under, criticism, and shrank from argument ; it excited
him over much, and was really bad for his health. His common
practice when pressed in a difficult position, was to finger his
pulse and saying : u I must not talk any more," to abruptly
leave the discussion unfinished. Of course, wicked people put
a more wicked interpretation on this habit than it should in
fairness bear. Anyhow, when Spencer forsook the Club as he
did some years ago, to seek greater quiet elsewhere, I was
conscious of a void which has never since been filled. ,
502 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxix.

An amusing instance of his strong leaning to a priori reasoning
rather than to experiment occurred on his coming to a labora-
tory I had then established for anthropometric purposes . . .
I told Spencer of the difficulty of accounting for the peculiarities
in the pattern of ringer prints, and that the dissections of em-
bryos had thus far told no more than that they could be referred
to folds of membrane in which the sudorific glands were formed,
but threw no light on the reason why the pattern should here
be a whorl and there a loop, and so on. He said that dis-
section was not the best way to find out what I wanted to
know : I ought to have started from a consideration of the uses
of the ridges, and he proceeded to elaborate a line of argument
with great fulness in his usual sententious way. It was to the
effect that the mouths of the ducts, being delicate and liable to

injury from abrasion, required the shield of ridges, and on this

basis he reared a wonderfully ingenious and complicated super-
structure of imaginary results to which I listened with infinite
inward amusement. When he had quite concluded, I replied
with mock humility, that his arguments were most beautiful and

cogent and fully deserved to be true, but unfortunately the ducts
did not open out in the shielded valleys, but along the exposed
crests of the ridges. He burst into a good humoured laugh,
and then told me the story, which also appears in his Auto-
biography, of Huxley's saying, that if Spencer ever wrote a
tragedy, its plot would be the slaying of a beautiful deduction

by an ugly fact. . . .
The power of Spencer's mind that I most admired*, was that
of widely founded generalizations. Whenever doubt was hinted
as to the sufficiency of his grounds for making them, he was
always ready to pour out a string of examples that seemed to
have been, if not in his theatre of consciousness when he spoke,
at all events in an ante-chamber of  whence they could be
                                     it,

                                                               I
summoned at will. In more than any other person whom have
met, did his generalizations strike me in the light of true "com-

posite" pictures. Whether the examples he gave in justification
were selected with conscious or unconcious bias, or were taken
is
              a
at random, another matter. Anyhow his wealth of ready illus-

tration was marvellous.

The verdicts on his style have been almost as divergent

as those on his doctrines. Occasionally, but rarely, has
                           a
                                                      it
                                                           is
                                                                 il

                                                                    it
been described as obscure  criticism open to the retort

that the obscurity may be due to the inability of the reader

to grasp the meaning, no matter how  expressed.

Bearing in mind the highly abstruse nature of his thought,

one will have to admit that few writers have so seldom left

their readers in doubt. Burdened by wealth of lustra-
CHAP, xxix.] Characteristics and Reminiscences 503

tion and exemplification, his style is apt to appear wanting

in lightness and grace: but occasionally "a grave elo-

quence lights up his pages." Its massiveness corresponds

with the massiveness of his thought. Occasionally it is

lightened by singularly felicitous words, or phrases, or

passages, which have become part of the English language

thus furnishing additional examples of the survival of

the fittest. Though condemned for its "barbarous termi-
nology," it has also been praised for its " wonderful sim-

plicity,"  its "terseness,  lucidity, and  precision." The author
of the "   Philosophy of     Style" had,   naturally, his own ideas

about punctuation, and was often annoyed at the liberties

taken by compositors and press readers. "The structure of

a writer's sentence is in part the structure of his thought."

His faculty of composing, under what would be to many

very distracting circumstances, was remarkable : showing

his rare power of concentration of abstracting his thoughts

from his surroundings. Whether in a racket court at King's

Cross, or in a sports field at Kensal Green, or in a boat on

the Serpentine, or under the trees in Kensington Gardens,

he was able to carry on a train of abstract thinking, and
to dictate to his secretary, as serenely as if he were in the
privacy of his study. Unlike his friends, Mr. G. H. Lewes

and Professor Huxley, who wrote and re- wrote their com-

positions, 1 he made comparatively few changes in his

manuscript. In revising for future editions, however, he

made numerous changes in the expression, but very few

in the argument.

One of Mr. Spencer's traits (says Mr. Troughton), was his
seeming inability to take in hand two or more things concur-
       a                for instance, some controversy occupied him, per-
rently.
              If,

                       a
manent work was for the time being put aside altogether. He
had rooted dislike to being hurried.
                                           A  sequence of this was

that he resented being put under pressure to do any piece of
work within given time. This largely explains his reluctance

to engage in controversies, especially newspaper controversies,

in which replies and rejoinders had to be made on the instant.
The daily increments of work accomplished were very small,
but the paucity of the performance never seemed to trouble
him, or at all events never stimulated him to quicken the pace.

1      George Eliofs Life, ii., 99. Life of Professor Huxley, ii., 39, 291.
504 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxix.

     He was an essentially methodical man. This characteristic

manifested itself alike in his personal habits and in the expres-
sion of his thoughts. His personal effects were all arranged
and distributed on this principle keys in one pocket, knife in
another, and so on. Still more so was this the case with his
papers of all kinds. These were all classified and put away
in certain receptacles according to a definite plan, so that when
required they could be found without any bother. When the
time came for using any particular group of materials for the
work in hand, that group would be subjected to a sub-classifi-
cation, and so on, until the materials for a particular section

were assembled together. With this orderliness of habit, it
was not at all difficult, when circumstances arose which involved
a suspension of work, to pick up the thread again when the
time came for resuming it.

      Some light is thrown upon his general reading by two
of his secretaries. Referring to the period about the

middle of the eighties, Mr. W. H. Hudson says:

Once we went through some of the eighteenth century

novelists, and he was specially interested in Humphrey Clinker.

He was also struck by the delicate art of W. D. Howells, though
he tired after two or three of his stories.  I recall that he thought
much of Shakespeare's witty dialogue         (as in " Much Ado ")
forced and childish. I think of all the novelists I read to him,

he most enjoyed Thackeray.

     Reading could hardly be called one of his pastimes (says
Mr. Troughton, with reference to a later period), unless it was
reading the daily and weekly journals, or rather listening to
them, for reading them aloud was one of my functions almost
from the beginning. Certainly his appetite for the Times was
invariably keen and he followed the reading of it with close
attention, accompanying it with a running commentary on
events and opinions recorded, and noting anything especially
bearing on his own work. This reading of the paper was
the first order of the day, and moreover was always done
in a certain sequence summary first, then the gist of the
leading articles, followed by the foreign news, and then the
miscellaneous news this was the order down to the last

month of his life, when he usually dropped asleep before it
had proceeded far. Then, in addition to the morning paper
there was the evening paper, an invariable item in the day's
programme, while the various weeklies gave him enough mental
food to tide over Sunday. Of the constant succession of books
which reached him mostly of a grave character a glance
usually sufficed, and many of them \\cre put away on the
CHAP, xxix.] Characteristics and Reminiscences 505

shelves without even that. Fiction he had little taste for, and
only at very long intervals read any.

     Music was a great pleasure to him (Miss Killick writes),
and his taste in the matter of composers good. In early life
he enjoyed singing in glees, and in his closing years liked
to hear them played on the piano. But in music, as in every-
thing else, he had his own ideas how certain passages should

be rendered, and they were as a rule contrary to the prescribed
methods.

     Spencer " disciplines himself to amusements/' wrote
Dr. You mans in 1871. This was quite true. The dis-
ciplinary process was also recommended to his friends.
" Pray follow my example," he advises Dr. Gazelles, " in

taking as much rest and amusement as is needful for your

restoration, and be sure that, though at first you may, in

consequence of having wedded yourself to work, find

amusement dreary and uninteresting, you will in course of

time habituate yourself to          and begin to find life more
                                    it,
tolerable." While passionately fond of the country andis

country pleasures, he cared little in boyhood and youth for

out-door games. Of skating he* was very fond, and Mr.

Frank Lott remembers "the very graceful figure he always

made on the ice." After the breakdown in 1855 he began
the sedulous pursuit of means for restoring his health. At

first the quest was mainly not for pleasurable occupations,
but for those involving bodily exertion and inducing sleep.

After time pleasurable pursuits were sought. But here
         a
also not the pleasure at the time, but the beneficial after-
              ;

                            a

                                it
effects were the main considerations. He had few indoor

relaxations. Backgammon and whist were played occa-

sionally but he was not good at the latter, nor did he like

playing for money. Miss Charlotte Shickle, who sometimes

joined him in rubber at Queen's Gardens, informed the

present writer that was an understanding that he would

pay his losings when he lost, but would not accept winnings
when he won. This was his invariable rule.

His ideal of life found no place for asceticism, neither

for the asceticism due to religious or moral feeling, nor for

that which dictated by the assumed demands of business.
" Lit'c  is
                is                                life for working but
         not for learning, nor                    ;
506 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxix.

learning and working are for life." A strange maxim this to

come from one who scorned delights and lived laborious
days in order to complete a task he had deliberately imposed
on himself. While primarily valuing life and health for the
happiness they afforded, he valued them next as the means
of accomplishing his work. From worldly ambition, the
desire to amass wealth to "get on" in the ordinary sense

   he was singularly free. He often spoke as if he had a
mission a message to deliver to the world. To this mission
everything was subordinated.

     His sincerity, truthfulness and honesty, impressed all
who knew him. " He was absolutely sincere himself,"
writes Miss Killick, "and could not tolerate the very

smallest deviation from the truth in others. Although at
times he might appear to condemn unjustly, investigation
always showed that some necessary data were unknown
to him, and therefore his judgment, while apparently
unsound, was in accordance with his knowledge of the
facts." Suspicion of the motives of others was character-
istic of himself, as well as of his father. Describing his
first interview, Mr. Troughton says :

     I had been informed that Mr. Spencer was in a precarious
state of health, so much so that whoever filled the post could
not expect to retain it for more than twelve months at the
outside. But really there was nothing in his appearance to

suggest any apprehensions of early demise on the contrary, he
struck me as being a man of more than average vigour : his
upright bearing as he entered the room, his clear crisp voice,
his searching gaze, seemed to betoken a hale, though perhaps

not a hearty, physique. My unpunctuality called for serious
notice. The time appointed was ten o'clock. Why was I late ?
The explanation being forthcoming, a multitude of questions
followed in quick succession. His inquisitiveness rather took
 me aback, but what struck me most was the brusque way in
which he delivered his questions, and the way in which, when
 putting them, he concentrated his gaze upon me. Surely this
 man must have practised a good deal at the bar, I thought.
 I came to know afterwards that this was only a bit of affecta-
 tion. Some years later, when about to fill up a vacancy on his
 domestic staff, he deputed me to interview the applicants :
 instructing me in detail as to the proper method to pursue
 in interrogating them. It was just the same as that which he
 adopted at my first encounter with him. . . .

      Numerous as were the instances in which Mr. Spencer
CHAP, xxix.] Characteristics and Reminiscences 507

appeared to distrust those with whom he had business or pro-
fessional relations, it would not be fair to say that in more
than a very few of them did he harbour any positive suspicion.
He was a man who in everything he did, even in trivial
matters, was guided by principle, the principle in each case
being that which by a process of reasoning he had found
to be valid. Because a large proportion of men are either
unreliable or dishonest, therefore it must be assumed for the
time being, that the man with whom you have dealings belongs
to that number. To a certain extent the world at large acts
on this assumption, but Mr. Spencer carried it to extreme
lengths, and with entire disregard of the law of probability.
I more than once told him that in the City, where office boys
are more trusted than he trusted men of standing, business
would come to a standstill if his principle were carried out
to the letter.

     He could not readily adapt himself to other peoples'
ways, had very decided views as to how things should be
made or done, and was fidgety and irritable when they were
not made or done as he thought they should be. Though
he was, in consequence, not easy to get on with in the
house, yet he lived with the same hostess at Queen's Gardens
for about a quarter of a century. While possessing wide
knowledge, and a singular power of tracing the working of
great cosmic forces, he was as innocent as a child in many of
the ways of the world. Master as he himself was in dealing
with wide generalities, and in marshalling and co-ordina-
ting the details on which they rested, he overlooked the
fact that most people content themselves with passing from
detail to detail without a thought of a connecting link
between them. They think from hand to mouth, as well
as live from hand to mouth. Unable to grasp the principle
which gives unity to details, they are liable to be plunged
into confusion when told that they should take it as their
guide. Allow them to ignore the general rule, all goes well
 until some unexpected event takes place which a wider out-
 look might have foreseen. If he himself had had the carry-
ing out of his views on housekeeping, doubtless he would
 have justified their soundness. ]But having to depute this
to others he would have been well advised had he kept

 many of his theories to himself. Embued with the notion
that convention reigned supreme within the house as with-
out, he continually fought against it. He had his whims
a it,508 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxix.:
        I
and his crotchets he was exacting in the sense of insisting
that duties undertaken should be performed he was nota
easily satisfied. But the attractiveness of his personality not
only covered a multitude of foibles, but claimed the loyalty
of those who lived with him, and who knew the deeply
sympathetic nature that lay beneath a certain brusqueness
of manner. Of his relations with Spencer, extending from
the end of 1888 till the end of 1903, Mr. Troughton writes :

     Brusque as Mr. Spencer often was in addressing those about
him, he invariably treated me with courtesy. I cannot call to
mind a single occasion during the many years I was in daily con-
tact with him when he gave way to temper with me, and I have
many remembrances of the kindly feeling he showed towards
me. Beneath the asperity of manner which often showed itself,
there was a really sympathetic nature ready to manifest itself
when circumstances gave the needful stimulus.

     Would Spencer have made a successful administrator ?
If he had taken to teaching, one may say with confidence
that as far as high aims, sound methods, and single-minded
devotion could command success, he would have made his
mark. But it is questionable whether he would have been
successful in the administrative side of school- work. His
want of tact, bluntness of speech, lack of quick and true
perception of character, and impatience with the weaknesses
of average human nature, would have stood in the way
of smooth working with subordinates, colleagues, educa-
tional authorities, and, perhaps most important of all, with
parents. Had he adhered to railway engineering, there
would doubtless have been some daring feats of construc-
tive skill to be recorded ; but whether capital and labour
would have co-operated with him is a moot question. Given
his highly evolved humanity of the future, he would prob-
ably have proved a successful administrator; with humanity
as we know the issue would have been more than doubt-
ful. Mr. Francis Gallon writes

     He was most impracticable administrator on the only
occasion in which saw him put fairly to the test. We were
both members of the Committee of the Athenaeum Club, at
long by-gone time, when the dining room management was bad,

and there was much discontent. Spencer moved and carried
the appointment of Special House Committee, to consist of
           a
CHAP, xxix.] Characteristics and Reminiscences 509

only three members. He, of course, was Chairman, another was
one of the prominent malcontent members, and he persuaded
me to be the third, as having no official duties and therefore
presumably a man of leisure. I accepted the nomination with
great misgivings, which after events fully justified. A more
comically ineffective Committee than ours I never sat upon.
Spencer insisted on treating the pettiest questions as matters of
serious import, whose principles had to be fully argued and
understood before action should be taken, with the consequence
that we made no progress. Many funny scenes took place, one
was with the butcher, who had supplied tough meat. Spencer
enlarged to us on the subject of toughness in the same elaborate
and imposing language with which his writings abound, and
when the butcher appeared he severely charged him with
supplying meat that contained an undue proportion of con-
nective tissue. The butcher was wholly nonplussed, being
unable to understand the charge and conscious, as I suspect, of
some secret misdoing to which the accusation might refer.

     An amusing instance of the failure of some of his
theories, when brought to the test of experience, is related

by Lady Courtney.

Of course he was an inveterate critic. He says so himself.
One form this characteristic took was criticism of our various

governesses for their management of us on one occasion with
amusing results. He had complained to my mother that one

of these much suffering ladies, and ah especially indulgent

one, \vas checking and destroying our natural instincts by her
rules and instructions, mainly, I think, because she \vould not

let us take off our jackets and either give them to her to carry
or throw them about. Mother and the governess talked it
over together, and Mr. Spencer was asked if he would like to
take us out himself for the afternoon walk, and readily agreed.
So off he started with some half dozen girls, whose ages ranged
from six tp fourteen, up the hill into the woods. We had heard
all about the complaint of our governess, and had had a pretty
broad hint that we might behave as we liked. Two of the

younger ones began at once to play the fool, and got so excited

and outrageous that my eldest sister and I tried to second Mr.
                                    control  them. In vain and in vain.          He
Spencer's efforts to               his foot  and said " When I say no, I      mean
envoen! "tuallFyinastllaymptheedy                                             dead
                                   managed    to lead him into a pit full of  " you
beech leaves and carried off his hat which had fallen off
                  ''
rude  children        was          his  exclamation,  and all round  behind the
                !

trees echoed r-r-r-rude children for he rolled his r's slightly
or at any rate we thought so. He came home a wiser and a
sadder man, and told my mother at dinner that two of her
510 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxix.

...children were very headstrong, and would need a good deal of
control.  I know that he interfered less in future with our

governesses.
     Mr. Spencer certainly had a keener desire than most men

to get other people to adopt and carry out his views, even on
quite trifling subjects : such as how to light a fire, or revive it
when it was low, the hanging of pictures, the colours in a
carpet, or of the flowers on a dinner table, the proper shape
of an inkstand, and a thousand other matters ; and he allowed
what he thought an unreasonable way of doing these things,
even when they had nothing to do with himself, to unduly
disturb his peace. Indeed, the commonplace person would

have said the philosophic temper was curiously absent in this
great philosopher so much so, that as he grew older and more

nervous and delicate, his friends almost unconsciously abstained
from arguing if they differed from him, unless they could p;.t
their point humorously, for a good joke always found Mr.
Spencer appreciative. Alluding to this irritability of tempera-
ment, I remember Professor
house in London, Mr. Spencer   Tyndall   bsayyi:ng"  at my father's
nicer fellow if he had a good  standing              He'd
                                                     then  "  be   a much
                                                                  and our
                               swear now and

hilarity at the very notion of Mr. Spencer swearing.

An unsparing critic of others, how did he take criticism

of himself ? He was too ready to say that he had been

"misunderstood "_ or "misrepresented," and too prone to
attribute the one or the other to moral obliquity. But he

never deliberately  took  aanptuntfoairenatdavilan"tamgiescohfieavnouosppocnonesnet.-
Polemical writing    was

quences" on his health. Foreseeing these, he often retired

from a contest at an early stage, when the issue was as

yet uncertain ; thereby causing annoyance to his opponent,

besides laying himself open to the suspicion that he had

begun to feel a little uncertain of his ground. . Between

personal and impersonal criticism he drew a sharp line.

In the former he seldom indulged, and if in the heat of con-

troversy he was led into the use of personalities, he took

care not to perpetuate them. Purely impersonal attacks

on his doctrines seldom disturbed his equanimity, though

they might lead to sharp thrusts of intellectual polemic.

It was different with attacks on his character. To these he

was more than usually sensitive.

     Spencer's habit (the drawbacks of which he did not
seem to realize) of throwing down a book when he
CHAP, xxix.] Characteristics and Reminiscences 511

disagreed with any of its cardinal propositions, afforded

some justification for the suggestion that he was unwilling

to deal with arguments and facts opposed to his own

views. An accusation of want of candour would have

greatly distressed him, conscious as he was of absolute

loyalty to his convictions. The fact was that, though his

allegiance to the truth never wavered not a single instance

being known of his declining to acknowledge as true what

he believed to be true he sometimes failed to reach
                      a
owing to the engrossment of his mind with the creationsis

of his ever-active constructive imagination precluding the a
                                                                   it,
admission of alien ideas. The shortcoming was intellectual,

not moral was due to the limitations of human intelli-

gence, even of the highest. Whatever his moral short-

comings, disloyalty to truth was not one of them. He
who could only contemplate "from the heights of thought

that far-off life of the race never to be enjoyed by [him],
                      remote posterity," would have been the
but only by     a

last to claim immunity from the infirmities of human

nature. But we require to be reminded that the very

greatness of the man has helped to bring too much into

relief both the shortcomings of his character and the

defects of his work. Take him for all in all, he was intel-

lectually one of the grandest and morally one of the noblest

men that have ever lived. His life was devoted to single

purpose the establishing of truth and righteousness as he

understood them. The value of life of self-sacrifice for

   lofty ideal inestimable at all times, and   especially
a               is
                  is
so in the present day of advertisement, push, and getting

on in the world. This will endure    whatever  may be the
fate of his philosophical opinions.  " In the  whole story

of the searchers for truth," said the Times, just after his
death, " there
                      no instance of devotion to noble aims

surpassing his courage, baffling ill-health, and proof against

years of discouragement, unwearied patience, wise economy

of powers, and confidence in the future recognition of the

value of his work."
                                              512

                  CHAPTER XXX.

SPENCER'S PLACE IX THE HISTORY OF THOUGHT.

     BY way of criticism on the Synthetic Philosophy much
has been written about its a priori character. Spencer's
habit of setting out from first principles and ever returning
to them his constant endeavour to verify every inductive
generalization by showing it to be deducible from some
higher generalization has been too readily taken to imply
that his philosophy does not rest on the solid ground of
nature. Such an opinion is a survival of the Baconian
reaction against the a priori methods of the schoolmen. It
ought not now-a-days to be necessary to repeat the truism
that the progress of science depends not on observation and
experiment alone, nor on theorizing and hypothesis alone,
but on the co-operation of these methods. Both are
essential, and as a matter of fact both are pursued in all
departments of knowledge, though not in an equal degree.
The nature of the phenomena to be investigated, the stage
the enquiry has reached, and the mental endowments of
the investigator, each or all of these determine which of
the two methods should be chiefly followed. Taking these
considerations into account, the scientific enquirer shows
his skill in so combining the two complementary methods
as to avoid the .one and the other of two dangers that lie in
the path of the seeker after truth. When theoretical specu-
lation predominates there is the risk of losing touch with
realities. When it is neglected in favour of observation
and experiment there is apt to be aimless groping in the
dark. The strict follower of experiment and observation
reminds one of the man who had collected an encyclopaedic
mass of information which he could not use, and of whom
an Irish friend remarked : " Yes, he has got all the answers,
but he has not got the questions." Unassisted by the
CHAP, xxx.] His Place in History of Thought 513

guidance of hypothesis, experiment and observation are apt
to land the investigator in a labyrinth out of which he has

to be assisted by some one possessing the clue. Mr.

Darwin, one of the most painstaking of observers and

experimentalists, was well aware how indispensable deduc-
tive reasoning is in the course of inductive inquiry. " No
one," he said, " could
an active theorizer."   be   a good  observer, unless he was
                            Without  speculation there is no
                        "

good and original observation." But the limitations of

faculty rarely allow of the same individual possessing

superior excellence both as a speculative thinker and as

an observer or experimentalist. It has been said by way

of disparagement of Spencer, that he was not a specialist,

or expert. Had he been so he could not have taken

the wide view he did of the whole domain of knowledge.

Besides the consideration of constitutional aptitude for the

one or the other, there is the further consideration that

specializing absorbs a great deal of time. To acquire a

minute acquaintance with details is often the labour of

a lifetime. The specialist has rarely the time, and still more

rarely the aptitude, to follow up wide generalizations. To

disparage, therefore, the work of one who takes a wide

survey of the field of knowledge, because in matters of detail

he is not equal to one who has devoted his life to a very

small portion of that field, indicates an entire misapprehen-

sion of the limitations of human faculty and of human life.

The organizer of knowledge would abdicate his function

were he to attempt to emulate the specialist's acquaintance

with details. His function is not to accumulate a store of

individual facts, but to co-ordinate the facts supplied him,

and reduce them to their most general forms. Moreover,

as already said, the needs of science are not always the

same. Accumulation of data may, at one time, be too far

in advance of organization ; just as theorizing may, at

another time, be too far ahead of accumulation. The

necessity for the guidance of theory was emphasized by

Professor Huxley in the testimonial he gave to Spencer

in 1860, when the system of philosophy was planned.

"Science would stagnate if the co-ordination of its data

did not accompany their accumulation." Professor Huxley

saw clearly that a man was needed to co-ordinate and

33
514 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxx.

systematize  the facts and conceptions that had accumulated
   to carry  an " illuminating conception through all the

departments of experience." Spencer came to supply the

want by giving to the idea of evolution a development and

application hitherto undreamt of.1 That he was successful

in this respect has been freely acknowledged by those best
                    " In these
able to judge.  is               dParyosfeosfsoirncrLelaosyindglyMosrtgraanig, ht"entheadt
speculation it      well," says

we should feel the influence of a thinker whose powers

of generalization have seldom been equalled and perhaps

never surpassed."

The dread of hypothesis and deductive reasoning was

for a time a healthy reaction against the methods of the

schoolmen, but it is mischievous instead of salutary when

carried  to    extremes.    What Professor Meldola      says of
Biology  is                  branches of science. " In  the case
             true of other

of the purely literary treatment of biological problems by

writers who are not experts, the danger of over-weighting

the science with hypothesis is much exaggerated. Writers

of this class are often capable of taking a wider and more

philosophic grasp of a problem than a pure specialist, and

ideas of lasting value have sometimes emanated from such

sources. . . . The philosophic faculty is quite as powerful an

agent in the advancement of science as the gift of acquiring

new knowledge by observation and experiment." It is not

in the interests of science for those gifted with unusual

speculative ability to keep the brake applied on their special

endowment so as to secure leisure for observation and

experiment, any more than it would be in the interests of

science for singularly gifted observers and experimentalists

to slight the accumulation of facts in order to soar into the

regions of speculation. To restrict the free play of special

endowments is the certain road to common-place results.

Each should do what he can do best. He who is endowed

with the rare gift of organizing knowledge should exercise

that gift to the full, and he who has the less rare, but equally

valuable, gift of accumulating knowledge should make full

    1 See Mr. J. S. Mill's letter, dated 2 December, 1868 (chap, xii.,

p. 152).
CHAP, xxx .J His Place in History of Thought 515

use of it. Just as it is bad policy to put checks on experi-
ment and observation ; so also is it unwise to clip the wings
of speculation. It is far better that a Darwin and a Spencer
should each exercise to the full his characteristic intellectual

endowment and pursue the scientific method such endow-
ment favours, than that a Darwin should try to be like a
Spencer, or a Spencer try to be like a Darwin.

     That Spencer came in the fulness of time to render an all-

important service to modern thought, and that his mission
was successful, are clearly set forth in the following sketch,
for which the present writer is indebted to Mr. Hector

Macpherson :

    It may be fairly claimed for Herbert Spencer that he re-

vived speculative thinking in this country, and inaugurated a
new system of philosophy. When Spencer came upon the
scene philosophy was at a low ebb. In one of his essays
    S. Mill bears decisive                          this head. In his review
J.   Professor Sedgwick's   te" sDtimiscoonuyrseon
                                                    on the Studies of Cam-
of
bridge 1835," reprinted in his Dissertations, Mill says: "England
once stood at the head of European philosophy. Where stands
she now ? Consult the general opinion of Europe. The cele-
brity of England in the present day rests upon her docks, her
canals and her railways. In intellect she is distinguished only
for a kind of solid good sense, free from extravagance, but also
void of lofty aspirations." Mill goes on to complain of the
absence of investigation of truth as truth, of thought for the
sake of thought. For this state of things there was an obvious

AresasIcah.av<S; csieanidceelhseawdheecrelipsed"   philosophy in the  popular regard.
                                                  The early years of   the nineteenth
century were years of great fermentation. The practical energies
of the nation freed from the great strain of the Continental
wars found new outlets in commerce and industry. Scientific

study of Nature, no longer tabooed by theology, demonstrated
its validity by an imposing record of inventions and discoveries,

whose influence on the national prosperity was at once
dramatic and all embracing. Science became the idol of the
hour. It was inevitable that an attempt would be made to
reduce to something like order the ever-increasing mass of facts.
Since the days of Bacon thinkers have endeavoured to weave
the facts of science into a unified system. Whewell's History

and Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences was an attempt in this
direction. Unfortunately, just when Whewell was engaged

upon the task of generalization and interpretation, epoch-

making discoveries were being made, calculated to change the
entire foundations of scientific and philosophic thought, for
516 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxx.

which no place was found in his work ; such as the conserva-
tion and dissipation of energy, the variation of species, and
organic evolution."
Next came Comte. Valuable as was Comte's contribution

to the higher thought of the time, his influence on the philo-
sophic side was rendered sterile by the arbitrary line which he
drew between the known and the unknown. Many of the

phenomena which science to-day is bringing into the region

of knowledge were declared by Comte to belong to the region
of the unknowable, to peer into which was a foolish waste of
time. He tabooed all enquiries into the nature of gravitation,
light, heat, electricity, etc. All enquiries into origins were
dismissed as ontological speculations. Hampered by his res-
tricted method, he could get no further than the division of

phenomena into six classes Mathematics, Astronomy, Physics,
Chemistry, Biology, and Sociology. He clearly enough showed
the relation between the sciences, but his limited conception
of philosophy prevented him from tracing them to a common

root. Comte left the great problem of the unification of the

sciences unsolved ; he even declared it insoluble.

    The philosophy of J. S. Mill was also inadequate to the task
of assimilating and unifying the new facts of science. Mill's
empirical theory of knowledge made it impossible for him to

trace the bewildering phenomena of the Cosmos to a common

root.

Up till the time of Whewell the mechanical conception of
Nature held sway a conception which threw great obstacles

in the way of discovering unity in Nature. If we treat the
Universe as a vast machine we do not readily discover the idea
of unity. Between the various parts of the machine there may
be no necessary unity, which indeed may exist only in the mind
of the constructor. To the mechanical conception was largely
due the waning influence of philosophy of which Mill complained.
The philosophy of which he was the distinguished representa-
tive and exponent was ill-fitted by its fundamental conceptions
for grappling effectively with the new views of Nature which
science was disclosing ; it could not help in the endeavour to
find necessary unity at the heart of things. In this sphere Mill
was hampered by his theory of knowledge, which he inherited
from Hume. According to this theory, knowledge originates
in impressions made upon the senses, and is limited, of course,
by the external world. Knowledge in this view, in its ultimate
analysis and when perfectly organized, will consist of the classi-
fication of facts and the arranging of them into groups. Are
these groups held together by any necessary law ? Can the
various branches of knowledge be traced back to one common
                                          Mill was compelled
root ? By the   nature of his philosophy  as follows : " There
to answer this  question in the negative

exists in Nature a number of permanent causes, which have
CHAP, xxx. 1 His Place in History of Thought 517

subsisted ever since the human race has been in existence, and
for an indefinite and probably an enormous length of time
previous. The sun, the earth, and the planets with their
various constituents air, water and the distinguishable sub-
stances whether simple or compound of which Nature is made

up are such permanent causes. Why these particular natural
agents existed originally and no others, or why they are
arranged in such a manner throughout space, is a question we
cannot answer : more than this we can discover nothing regular
in the distribution itself. We can reduce it to no uniformity,
to no law." In its final results the Experience philosophy of
Mill, like the Positivism of Comte, lends no encouragement to
the search for unity which the new dynamical theory of Nature

was fostering.
     Spencer saw clearly that, on the lines of the old Experi-

ence philosophy, the problem was insoluble. He saw that
if the mind cannot pass beyond particulars, as Mill said, it was
hopeless to search for universal laws, hopeless to trace existence
in its multifarious aspects to one dynamic process. What
Spencer did was to start with two universal intuitions, which
cannot be proved, and which must be accepted as necessities
of thought belief in personal identity, and belief in the per-
manence of the constitution of things which we call Nature.
By starting with two intuitive beliefs subjective existence and
objective existence Spencer escaped the sceptical conclusions
of Hume and Mill.

     As I have observed in a review of Spencer's philosophy :
"Accepting as the data of philosophy, subject and object, self
and not-self, Spencer deals with the general forms under which
the not-self, the Cosmos, manifests itself to the self, the mind.
These general forms under which the not-self, the cosmos,
manifests itself to the self, the mind, are space, time, matter,
motion, and force. After a careful analysis of these forms by
which all thinking is conditioned, he comes to the conclusion
that space, time, matter and motion, all necessary data of intel-
ligence, are built up or abstracted from experiences of force.
Force persists. When we say that force persists, we are simply
saying that the sum total of matter and motion, by which force
manifests itself to us, can neither be increased nor diminished.
This, like personal identity, is an ultimate fact, an ultimate
belief, which we must take with us as the basis of all reasoning ;
if force came into existence and went out of existence, the
Universe would be not a cosmos but a chaos, nay more,
reasoning would be impossible. Scientific deductions, as well
as abstract reasoning, would be impossible if the forces of
Nature did not persist. Viewed thus, the Universe is one
fact, the varying phenomena being but so many phases of the
redistribution of matter and motion."

     Spencer found in the two great scientific generalizations
518 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxx.

                                                                                                                                                                                      i

the nebular theory and the conservation of energy precisely
the scientific materials which were necessary to the framing
of his philosophical system. Here was clear proof that the
Universe was not machine-like in construction, but was the
outcome of a dynamic process. Starting with the ultimate fact
of the redistribution of matter and motion, Spencer proceeds
to trace the process by which the Universe evolves from its

primitive nebulous form to its latest state of complexity. It
is noteworthy that Spencer, in dealing with matter, did not,
like so many of his contemporaries, accept the atom as an
ultimate. When he wrote, the atom was treated as the founda-
tion stone, so to speak, of the Universe. In his First Principles,
he showed that matter, under philosophical analysis, resolves
itself into a form of energy a view which the discovery of
radium amply confirms.

     From the cosmical side, Spencer's great task was to trace the
process of evolution. For convenience, phenomena are divisible
into sections astronomic, geologic, biologic, psychologic, socio-
logic, but the process is one, and the law is one. In those
spheres, Spencer has illuminated a whole world of facts, and
by his magnificent powers of analysis and generalization has
raised the human mind to higher reaches of thought. It has
been finely said that to a thinker capable of comprehending it
from a single point of view, the Universe would present a
single fact, one all comprehensive truth. Spencer's attempt
is the greatest that has yet been made to realize this ideal.

     Spencer intended his system to be a philosophy of pheno-
menal existence, but at the outset he deemed it necessary to
deal with ontological problems. By his famous theory of the
unknowable he involved himself in controversies which dis-
tracted the public mind and drew attention away from his
real aim. He realized that in this he had made a mistake.
He was in his later days anxious to make it plain that his
system was quite independent of his theory of the Unknowable.
His system, he once remarked* to me, should be judged on
its merits, apart from its metaphysical basis. 1 Spencer's mis-
take was in prefacing his First Principles with a discussion
associated with the philosophy of Hamilton and Mansel. The
conclusion of his great work was the proper place to treat
of its philosophical aspects, when he would have been in a
position to deal with ontological problems on modern lines.

     Great inconvenience came from the mixing up of the
scientific and the metaphysical. For instance, in First Princi-
ples Spencer proceeds on the assumption that force, which he
calls a form of the unknowable, explains all phenomena, living
as well as non-living. His attempt to correlate living and non-

  1 See Supra, chap, xv., p. 201 ; chap, xviii., p. 252 ; chap, xxviii,, p. 464.
CHAP, xxx.] His Place in History of Thought 519

living forces, and embrace them in a mechanical formula did
not latterly satisfy himself. In the sixth edition of his First
Principles, revised by him in 1900, he no longer believed in the

transformation of motion into .feeling,^ but only in a constant
ratio between the two. In dealing with life the same change
                                       In the        e"dliitfieoninofitstheessPernincecipcleasnnootf
of view is noticeable.                         last
Biology the admission                is made   that
be conceived in physico-chemical terms." The effect of these
admissions is to make the "Synthetic Philosophy" dualistic
rather than monistic. From a scientific point of view these

admissions are of no moment, because, as the psychical only
manifests through the physical, it is quite legitimate to use
mechanical terminology in dealing with phenomena. Both in
biology and psychology the Spencerian formula has been ex-
ceedingly fruitful. In regard to the former we have the
testimony of a competent authority, Professor Arthur Thomson,
     eSpcoocthtishmabkiinoglogwisto,rkw. ho"
the                                           describes  the Principles of Biology as
an                                            Even as a   balance sheet of the facts

of life the book is a biological classic ; consciously or uncon-
sciously we are all standing on his shoulders." Distinguished
scientists on the Continent have given like testimony to
Spencer's labours in the region of biology.
     In psychology Spencer's work was also epoch-making.                His
book proved to be the forerunner of a new method in the study
of brain and nerve evolution and dissolution.                    No greater

evidence of the value of Spencer's work in this department can

be had than the testimony of distinguished medical specialists
in brain and nerve disorders. It is claimed for Spencer that

in neurology, psychology, and pathology, he has discovered

the fundamental principles, and that whatever systems are

erected in these sciences must be erected on the foundations

he has laid. In Spencer's hands psychology, from being a

sterile science confined to academic circles, has been converted

into a valuable instrument of scientific research.
     To the ethical, sociological, and political sciences, Spencer
applied his evolution formula with marked originality. To the
utilitarianism of Bentham and Mill he has given something like
a scientific foundation, while political philosophy, which before
his day was usually associated with forms of government, has
now                                  in sociological evolution.     As  has been
well  its   p: ro"peSpr enpclaecr,e  exchanging the point of     view   from the
      said

mechanical to the biological, originated quite a new train of
political thinking. An organized society is subject to the law
of growth. It has an economic root, and all political struc-
tures as well as ethical ideals are determined, not from the
outside by legislation, but by the economic conditions at each
particular stage. All students of social evolution are his
debtors."
     What will be the verdict of history upon Herbert Spencer ?
520 Life of Herbert Spencer [CHAP. xxx.

It will surely be that he belonged to the highly gifted race of
thinkers who, by the boldness of their generalizations and their
commanding outlook upon life and thought, have opened out
to humanity wider intellectual vistas.

The warmth and catholicity of the tributes paid to the

remarkable force of Spencer's intellect, the lofty simplicity

of his character, the grandeur of his aims, and the heroic

devotion which had sustained him throughout a long life,

bore eloquent testimony to the extraordinary impression he

had made on the men of his day and generation. He had

reached the front rank among thinkers. But, it has been
asked, will he hold this place in the estimation of future

generations ? Do these tokens of appreciation warrant the

assumption that the impression will be enduring that

there will be a permanent widening and clearing of the

intellectual horizon, and such a purifying and strengthening

of character as will stand the test of time ? This question

is more easily put than answered ; but an attempt to answer

it is desirable, inasmuch as the raising of besides carrying
                                            ?
with   suggestion of belittling Spencer and his achieve-
       it                                             is
           a                                             it,

                       :                                                      ;

                                        a

                                        it
ments, implies that an affirmative answer may be given to

the general question Is possible for any one to frame                            aa

theory of things that shall be final

The durability of thinker's work seldom discussed

with profit owing partly to the uncertainty attaching to fore-

casts of events like opinions and impulses, to the formation

of which so many subtle elements contribute and partly

to the absence of clear idea of the question raised. Finality,
       a

in the strict sense of the word, may at once be put aside.

Scientific theories cannot be final, inasmuch as the revela-

tions of Nature are not final.              theory holds its own so
                                            it

                                               A

                                                                          it
long as, and only so long as, harmonizes better than any

other with ascertained facts. In any other sense than this,

finality was not claimed by Spencer, nor could have been

claimed by him consistently with his fundamental doctrine.

The gradual development of his own          c"oncemptaioynsbe,"wassays
striking exemplification of evolution.
       J.
         If

                                        it

                                                                 It
Rev. W. Chadwick, of Brooklyn, "that there are particu-

lars of Spencer's system that will require serious modifica-

tion.  there are not, will be an exception to its central
CHAP, xxx.] His Place in History of Thought 521

law. In Spencer's world there are no finalities, and for him

to imagine his own system of philosophy as one would be

impossible." Change, he held, is life, absence of change,

death. He did not, as was implied by one of the news-

paper obituary notices, so far forget himself as to conceive

"it possible that he was saying the last word in Philosophy."

He would have    admitted that many   of his generalizations
would " have to  give way before the  tests of future experi-

ence and research"; that   many   of his formulae were  likely
to " perish, not by being   ever  refuted, but because   they

cease to be instructive." A theory, though professing to be

the most complete generalization of the on-goings of the

universe as known in the second and third quarters of the

last century,- does not on that account claim to be installed

as the accepted scheme of things for all time, or for even the

next generation. To suppose that Spencer, who had traced

the genesis and growth of science in the past, assumed that

there would be no growth in the future, would be to treat

him as one of the most short-sighted, instead of one of the

most far-seeing of thinkers. Viewed in this light, Spencer's

work has nothing to fear from the discoveries, marvellous
in number and importance, made in recent years. Even if

evolution had now to be consigned to the scrap-heap, where

lie so many outworn theories, that would not affect its

claim to have been the most complete generalization of

knowledge at the time he wrote. But, though there may be

ambiguities of statement, oversights in details, and mistakes

in application, there are at present no indications of the

doctrine as a wrhole being superseded. Even the phenomena

of radium, revolutionizing previous conceptions as to the

constitution of matter, do not overthrow the doctrine of

evolution.    Some    there are,  i"ndaenesdw,erwhthoe  think with  Dr.
Saleeby that  these  phenomena                          Spencerian  de-

finition of evolution as if it had been framed to explain

them." Others are of opinion that the formula of evolution

will not fit the new discoveries so perfectly as this that it

will require a little letting out here or a little taking in there.

When one remembers how the formula evolved in Spencer's

mind under the influence of increasing knowledge, one will

be prepared for such further modifications as fresh dis-

coveries may necessitate. But whatever discoveries far
522   Life of Herbert Spencer                           [CHAP. xxx.

surpassing those of radio-activity lie in the womb of time,

they will not affect the contention that Spencer's synthesis

of knowledge was the most comprehensive and complete

was final, not as foreclosing his scheme of the Universe

against future advances of knowledge, but as the fullest and

grandest generalization of the knowledge of his day. It

was a contribution towards a settlement, not a closing of

the account. In this sense, his permanent place is assured
for all time. In the history of the progress of the human

mind, the Synthetic Philosophy will be an enduring land-
mark. Men's ways of looking at things will never be what

they  wbeou"ldimhpaovessibbleeen   had he not written.  Henceforth it
will                              thoroughly to pursue   any kind of
enquiry without being confronted by his ideas." " No man

of   thSeunpdraeysenatftteirmeS,p" esnaciedr'sRevde. aJt.h,Min" octanSadvaisgceu,ssof   Boston,
the                                                                                    any one

of the great problems of the world . . . without dealing
with Herbert Spencer. He has got to agree with him or
fight him : he cannot ignore him." What influence more

permanent than this could any man have ? L
     In addition to his rare gifts for co-ordinating and sys-

tematizing the scientific conceptions of his day, Spencer

possessed an unrivalled power of stimulating and directing
others. To lead men to think for themselves to suggest

paths of inquiry at the end of which may lie a great

truth to direct a searchlight on the road to be traversed

surely these are attributes of the highest power. Sir

Andrew Clark was wont to say that when feeling intel-

lectually limp he was in the habit qf turning to Spencer's

writings, the bracing effect of which he seldom failed to

experience. The suggestiveness of his ideas was freely

acknowledged in his lifetime. From the American ranch,

the Australian bush, and the South African veldt from

those who go down to the sea in ships from countrymen

and from foreigners from men and women in humble

walks of life as well as from those in exalted station came

to him grateful acknowledgments of stimulus and guidance

received from his writings. And who can tell the number

of those who unconsciously by his thoughts have had their

      1 Compare Lord Courtney's address, chap, xxviii., p. 479.
CHAP, xxx.] His Place in History of Thought 523

own thoughts made broader and clearer, and their lives
turned into the path of new endeavour ?

     We are as yet too near him to form a true estimate of
his greatness. This is partly due to the fact that the details
of his personality obscure the grandeur of its outlines
that the superficial and immediate effects of his work
prevent us from estimating its deep and remote effects..
Partly, it is the result of the very success of his teaching,
which, having permeated our thought and speech, gives
the impression that many of his utterances are platitudes,
truisms, common-places, His ideas and his ways of looking
at things have become part of the intellectual atmosphere
we breathe have become embedded in the language
we speak. The value of his teaching will be rightly appre-
ciated only by future generations. What Professor Theodor
Gomperz says of Plato, may be said of Spencer :

      An intellect of the first order, having found and selected the
elements of a world-theory, will combine and develop them in
such manner as may best accord with its own powerful and
strongly marked individuality, and, for this very reason, there
will be small prospect of gaining the adherence, within a short
interval, of any very extensive section of society. At the same
time, such an intellect, out of the abundance of its wealth, will
exert an influence upon many later generations, with which it
will continually present new points of contact, and thus upon
the intellectual life of mankind at large. 1

     To posterity Spencer's reputation as a thinker may with

confidence be left.

     1 Theodor Gomperz's Greek Thinkers (translated by G. G. Berry),
ii., 245.
APPENDICES.
NOTE. The two following Appendices [A and B] being written
in the first person, apparently belong to the Autobiography, and in a
sense do so. The explanation of their appearance here is that the
Autobiography was finished and stereotyped ten years before the
first of them was written, and that now to incorporate them would
Iinvolve a re-arrangement of the plates, which would be trouble-
some and costly. Hence  have thought it best to leave them

to be used by my biographer. The use of the first person instead
of the third will, after this explanation, cause no misapprehension.
                        H. S.
\March, 1903.]
                               527

                     APPENDIX A.
PHYSICAL TRAITS AND SOME SEQUENCES. 1

YEARS ago I met with the remark that biographers do not

adequately describe the physical traits of the men whose lives
they write. Something is usually said about external appear-
ance ; but little or nothing is said about constitution. Both
sets of characters should have their places, since both are
factors in a man's career. Recognition of this truth has de-
cided me to set down such memoranda concerning my physical

nature as seem significant.

    Already in the Autobiography I have named the fact that
my ultimate height was 5 feet 10 inches : and I think I have
remarked that during boyhood I was unusually long-legged.
Probably my ability to outrun my school-fellows was due to
this trait of structure. . . . On approaching manhood a much
greater rate of growth, reaching three inches a year, was, I
suppose, due to the more rapid development of the trunk.
Eventually the proportions were not far from the normal,
though I think the chest was not so large as was needed for

a complete   organic balance.  waLsik"e    my father  and mother,   and
like all my  grandparents, I             spare," not  to say thin.   In-

deed, the fact that throughout adult life my weight was usually
a little over 10 stone implies this thinness, for the normal
weight for a man of 5 feet 10 inches is something like a stone
greater. I should add that my limbs when fully developed were

somewhat slighter than usual, my hands especially being small
   too small for a man.
    A life's experience has proved my constitutional strength to

have been good if not great. There have come round to me

reports respecting my feebleness in infancy feebleness said to
have been such that it was doubtful whether I should be reared.
I know no warrant for such reports. It is true that my father
would not have my brain taxed by early lessons ; but beyond
this interdict I can remember no evidence. I was allowed

to run wild and was freer from children's disorders than is

usual.

             1 Written in the autumn of 1902.
528                                   Life of Herbert Spencer                                                      [APP. A.

Something should be said respecting complexion. My hair
was brown, leaning rather towards a darker than a lighter
shade. A moderate amount of colour in the cheeks was
characteristic. I had neither that parchment-complexion which

goes along with the strongest constitutions (contrary to common
notions) nor that high colour which is popularly thought a
sign of abounding health. And here seems the fittest place to
remark that during middle and later life I changed very little.
In advanced years the usual remark was that I looked ten
years younger than I actually was. There were, I think, three
causes for this. It was said of me, after the publication of
Social Statics, that my forehead did not bear any of those
lines of thought which were to be expected. The absence
of such lines has remained a trait down almost to the present

time. As before explained, my thinking has not been forced

but spontaneous ; and, as a consequence, the face has not been

drawn into furrows expressing strenuous mental action. A

second cause                          believe, that as my strong eyes never shrank
                                      is,

                                        I
                                                      Ia

                                                                                                       ;
from any light however bright, there was not induced that
wrinkling up of the corners of the eyes which reflex efforts

to shut  off part                     of the  light cause                                                 and,  "  consequently,  there
has not  been so                      marked      production                                               of      crow's feet."   And

then, in the third place, have retained up to the present
time all my teeth. Where the crowns have decayed the roots
have been left, and there has not been produced the usual
sinking in of the cheeks from lack of the support which the
gums normally yield. This has enabled the face to retain its
contour in much greater degree than usual.
         a

                                                         I
Until the time of my nervous breakdown, had good health.
My constitution appears to have been not strong in the sense of
possessing overflowing vigour, but strong in the sense of having
a good balance. All through life, in late days as in early days,
my state of body and mind has been equable. There have
never been any bursts of high spirits and times of depression
but there has ever been flow of energy moderate in amount,                                                                             a;
                                              a

but sufficient for the purposes of life.
One consequence has been that have preserved down to
late life love of amusements of all kinds.       II                                                                never fell into that
it                                                        I
state of indifference which characterizes many. Concerts andis
theatres continued to be attractions until my broken health
          a
forbade attending thema               :          good drama being to the last, as at

                                   ;     a

first, one of the greatest pleasures which life yields. Certain
sports, too, as salmon and sea-trout fishing, retained their
attraction until my strength failed. To friends who have lost
liking for other pursuits than work, have often insisted that
         mistake, even from a business point of view, to give up
amusements since, when disturbance of health has made
holiday imperative, there remains no means of passing the time
with satisfaction. u Be boy as long as you can," was the
                                              a
APP. A.J Physical Traits and Some Sequences                              529

maxim which I reiterated. Games, too, I played as long as
physical powers allowed. Above all I continued to enjoy the
country ; my sojourn in which every summer was looked
forward to as the great gratification of the year. How fully I
entered into its concomitant pleasures may be judged from the
fact that I went picnicking when over eighty.
Being moderate in amount, my flow of energy was never
such as prompted needless activities. There are men whose
fulness of life necessitates some kind of action purposeless
action, if no other. This was never so with me. Contrariwise,
I tended always to be an idler. Action resulted only under
the prompting of a much-desired end, and even then it was
with some reluctance that I worked at things needful for

achieving the end.
I emphasize this trait since it is so utterly at variance with
the trait commonly ascribed to me. On looking at the series of

my books, and at the amount of material brought together in
them, as well as the thinking shown, it appears to be a necessary
implication that I have been a hard worker. The inference is
quite wrong, however. In the first place, that which I have

clone has been done only under pressure of a great object : and
even under that pressure it has been done with a very moderate
activity. It is true that activity in thinking was constant ; and
it was partly
the form of    "thceastpllee-absuuirledinogf,"thainnkdinign  (which in   boyhood took
                                                             later life  higher forms)
which put a constant check upon action. Probably this trait
did much towards shaping my career. Had I been energetic
there would not have arisen those quiet contemplations, carried
on irregularly and at first without definite aims, which led to
the work I have done.

One of the traits of a constitution \vhich, though not vigorous,
was organically good, appears to have been a well-finished
development of the structures which arise out of the dermal
system. I was thirty-two before I had any sign of decay of
teeth. I never had a tooth taken out or stopped. Of the eyes,
which are also dermal structures, the like may be said. They
have all through life remained strong. Down even to my present
age (eighty-two) I read without spectacles ; sometimes putting
on a pair, but finding the inconvenience such that, on the whole,
I prefer to do without them. I may add that I have, until quite
recently, rejoiced in a strong light. That dislike to a glare which
many people betray, even in their early years, I have rarely if
ever felt. The like holds with the ears. Those around me

say that my hearing is perfect. Is there any significance in this
perfection and long endurance of teeth, eyes, and ears, all of
them developed from the dermal layer ? The implication seems
to be that in the process of development there was no failure
of nutrition at the periphery.

34
53                Life of Herbert Spencer                                         [A PP. A.

     Part of my motive for setting down the foregoing facts has
been that of introducing certain incidents and the effects they

probably had on my constitution and career.
     First of all there is the achievement in walking when thirteen,

as narrated in my Autobiography [i., 95]. I have I think ex-
pressed the belief that, notwithstanding the passage through
this constitutional strain without apparent damage, yet some
damage was done. That such a long-continued exertion was
possible at that age is strange ; and it was, I think, impossible
that it could have been gone through without leaving certain

imperfect developments of structure.

    [After the visit to Switzerland] came the breakdown in
                                                                               it
                                                                                                              If,
health caused by writing the Principles of Psychology.                                                                      as

above inferred, the vascular system at large, and more especially

its central organ, had been injured, seems an implication
that the collapse which occurred under this moderate stress of
work would not otherwise have taken place. From that time
onwards throughout the rest of my life have never had
    a

                                                             :

                                                         I

                                                                                                                               a
sound night. Always my sleep, very inadequate in quantity, has
been succession of bits not the broken sleep resulting from
an occasional turning over while half awake, but having fre-
quent breaks with no sense of sleepiness, and long intervals
with no sleep at all. Always dropped off without prelim-
                                                                        I

inary sense that was about to do so, and always when woke
I                                                                                 I
     I
                                                                                            is
                 a

               I
                        I

                                                             ;
was broad awake. Only during recent years (say after seventy-
five) have approached the normal state, in so far as that
indicated by feeling sleepy before going to sleep and after waking.
    have said that for eighteen months did nothing. Even
                                                                               I

reading column of a newspaper brought on sensation of
                                                                                  a

                                                                                              :

                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                      I
fulness  in the head                                             and    when,  aritnicletheonwin" tPerrogoref ss1856-it7s,      at
length   undertook to                                           \vrite    the
                                                                                                                            Law

and Cause," the effort entailed was very trying. Still the result
\vas beneficial, and from that time onwards, little by little,
resumed work.

         seems strange that with this nervous disability, accom-
    I It
panied by nights of three, four, or five hours sleep made up ofI

many parts, should have maintained -what seemed to be good
health. There was no failure of muscular strength. My usual
practice was to run up three flights of stairs two steps at time,
                                                                                  I

                                                                                                        a
and remember noting that this habit remained easy to me on
my sixtieth birthday. The essential cause was that my digestion

remained good. Throughout preceding life had never been
to any extent troubled by dyspepsia, and this eupeptic state
continued onwards after my break-down. The first indication
of any lack of full digestive power was that, when forty, found
         a

                                                                              :

                                                                   I
                                                                              I
veal at late dinner was no longer desirable. From that time
onwards there has been no kind of food which have avoided
on the ground of indigestibility my diet even down to this late
APP. A.] Physical Traits and Some Sequences 531

period including dishes which many people in middle life would
shrink from. Of course the ability to obtain a good supply of
blood has gone far towards compensating for the evils entailed
by bad nights. Repair of the tissues goes on during waking
hours as well as during sleep ; and sleep serves simply to give
opportunity for making up arrears of repair and, especially, to
give extra opportunity for repair 'to the heart. Hence it results
that a comparatively small amount of sleep with good blood

well circulated suffices suffices better than a long sleep with
a slow circulation and poor blood.
     A partial ability to continue my work was the consequence.
All through the period during which the Synthetic Philosophy
was in hand, there was never any lack of power to think, and
never any reluctance to think. Though my working time was
so limited in duration (being checked by the rise of sensations
in the head and a consciousness that mischief would result from

perseverance) yet during this abridged period the process of
dictating was in no degree restrained by a sense of effort or of
disinclination ; and had I not known that disaster would follow
I should have been ready to resume in the afternoon. The

constitution had adjusted itself to the abnormal conditions, and
the functions of all kinds went on within the prescribed bounds

without apparent strain.
     It is a question of some interest whether the state of things
was injurious or otherwise to my work. Of course had I not
lived beyond the usual age, part of it would have remained
undone ; but having lived long enough to complete it (or all
but a non-essential part of it), it seems possible that the slow
rate of progress, giving opportunity for more quiet thinking
than there would have been had I worked at the ordinary

rate, was  beneficial.        of  my physical nature and  of the
     Thus  far the ~accounts

incidents which profoundly affected have concerned the part
                                      it,

                                           I
                                                    I
of my life which extended to 1882. Then there came an
incident, further illustrating the rashness have described and

leaving no benefit but only enormous evil.             refer to the

initiation of the Anti-Aggression League, and the effects pro-

duced on my health.
Up to that time had abided by my resolution not to enter
into any public activity knowing that my state of brain wasI
              I

                          ;
one which forbade any stress. But now the interest felt in
                                      a

                                                  I
                                                             I
resisting our filibustering actions was such as to over-ride my
resolution. Not that thought of joining in continued agita-
           thought that after the League had been set afloat
tion.  I

might retire, and assist only by name and money.
And now there began to be shown in more manifest ways
the cardiac damage, and damage to the spinal cord, which had
                                      had to diminish my work,
been left by my boyish exploit.   aI

and year by year there came         diminution of the distance
532  Life of Herbert Spencer  [APP. A.

which I could walk without damage. Every now and then,
with my constitutional imprudence, I exceeded the limit of
work or exercise, and thereafter made both of them smaller,
until, in 1886, came the final break-down. Thereafter for some
years I was obliged to desist from the Synthetic Philosophy. . . .

     Having returned to a higher level of health I resumed writ-
ing the Philosophy, of which more than two volumes were still
[in 1888] unwritten. Ensuing years witnessed the same general
course of life improvements for a time, relapses consequent on
exceeding the amount of exertion bodily or mental which my
state allowed, and then long periods during which very little or
nothing could be done. The variations were great. From 1890
to 1896 there were times during which I was able to dictate
a considerable amount each morning ; to walk up and down-
stairs ; to sit at table to meals (except breakfast, which I had
taken in bed since 1886) ; to drive to the Athenaeum ; and, when
up to high water- mark, to play a game of billiards there. But
always after a while some adverse incident a little too much
exertion, or a little too much talk, or a little too much work

   brought me down again. And now, since the completion of
the Synthetic Philosophy, the low level has become settled.

     During these later years, when capable of any work, my
dictation (according to Mr. Troughton) has amounted some-
times to two periods of ten minutes each during the morning,
and sometimes to three. Reading for more than a few minutes

at a time is mischievous, and listening to reading has to be
restricted to fragments. It has been so even with music. Even
so simple a thing as looking at illustrations in monthly maga-
zines is too much for me unless taken in portions. Sometimes
things have considerably improved, as at Bepton, in 1900, when
I could walk about the garden a little ; while at other times,
as in the spring of 1901 and again during the present autumn
(1902) I have been mainly confined to bed, even the extra effort
 entailed by reclining on a sofa being too much. To all appear-
ance this state of things will become more pronounced, and
infirmities of other kinds, which have during these last years
added to my troubles, will make such part of my life as remains
still more to be dreaded.
                         533

                         APPENDIX B.

NOTE. When there occurred to me the thought of writing
a brief intellectual history of myself I hesitated for some time :
doubting whether it would be of any service. Now that it has
been completed, however, I am glad that I undertook it. Placing
the facts in order of genesis has had the effect of revealing to
me some significant connexions of ideas I was previously un-
conscious of ; and I infer that, if to me the narrative has yielded
information, it is likely to yield still more to others. As eluci-
dating the natural evolution of a theory, such information may
not be without its use.
At the same time some aid may be given to those who have
not yet made acquaintance with my books. I would suggest
that for such the best course will be to read first a number of

the Essays, beginning with the more popular ; then to read
the little book on Education ; then The Study of Sociology ; and
then the pages which here follow. A sketch plan of an unex-
plored region                                        for
u Filiation of  Iidseaaslw"ayms ayconsveervneientas        guidance, and  this
                                                      a   sketch plan of  the

Synthetic Philosophy.

February, 1899.

                 THE FILIATION OF IDEAS. 1

     A COMPLETE biography should give an account not only of a

man's career and conduct but also of his mental development,
emotional and intellectual, and of the products of that develop-
ment. Something is not unfrequently done towards delineating
the evolution of character, but not much is done towards intel-
lectual history, explaining the genesis of ideas and the elabora-
tions of them. Such a history cannot to much purpose be
given by any one but the man himself, and it has not commonly
happened that the man himself has thought of giving it.

     I have already, in the Autobiography, indicated stages of
thought, and shown the origins of certain leading ideas ; but I
have done this only in a fragmentary way, and much of the
detail required to make the account coherent has been unmen-

     1 The footnotes within square brackets have been inserted mainly to
assist reference to the Life and Letters.
534  Life of Herbert Spencer                                            [APP. B.

tioned. Then, beyond the fact that these indications do not
form a continuous whole there is the fact that they are limited
to the first half of my life. Hence the decision to narrate in
full, so far as is possible, the successive steps, and also to
describe the peculiarities of constitution, culture, and circum-
stance, which have been influential. One significant result will,
I believe, be that of showing how large a part emotional nature
plays in determining the intellectual activities, and how it enters
as an important factor into the resulting convictions.

     The events of childhood and boyhood, narrated elsewhere,
indicate to how small an extent authority swayed me. The

disobedience, so perpetually complained of, was the correlative

of irreverence for governing agencies. This natural trait
operated throughout life, tending to make me pay little atten-
tion to the established opinion on any matter which came up
for judgment, and tending to leave me perfectly free to inquire
without restraint.

     The nature thus displayed was rather strengthened than
otherwise by my father's habit of speculating about causes, and
appealing to my judgment with the view of exercising my
powers of thinking. By occasional questions of this kind he
strengthened that self-asserting nature of which he had at other
times reason to complain, but he did not apparently perceive
this. Meanwhile he cultivated a consciousness of Cause made
the thought of Cause a familiar one. The discovery of cause
is through analysis the pulling to pieces phenomena for the
purpose of ascertaining what are the essential connexions
among them. Hence one who is in the habit of seeking causes
is in the habit of analyzing. I have up to this time regarded

my father as more synthetic than analytic : being led to do so
by his perpetual occupation with synthetic geometry. But

now, on reconsidering the facts, I see that he was in large
measure analytic. He was a great adept at making solutions
of puzzles, verbal or physical ; and this evidently implies
analysis. Moreover, that analysis of articulations implied by
his system of shorthand, exhibited the faculty.

     No doubt this habit of mind, inherited from him and
fostered by him, flourished the more in the absence of the
ordinary appeals to supernatural causes. Though my father
retained the leading religious convictions, yet he never appeared
to regard any occurrences as other than natural. It should also

be remarked that dogmatic teaching played small part in my

education. Linguistic culture is based on authority, and as I
rebelled against the acceptance of things simply on authority

was not habitual. On the other hand, the study of Mathematics
(conspicuously Geometry and Mechanics), with which my youth
was mainly occupied, appeals, at each step in demonstration,
     it,

                                                                     a
APP. B.]       The Filiation of Ideas                                 535

to private judgment, and in a sense recognizes the right of
private judgment. Many times, too, I assisted in experiments
with the air-pump and the electrical machine ; so that ideas of
physical causation were repeatedly impressed on me. More-
over such small knowledge of natural history as I gained by
rearing insects, tended to familiarize me with natural genesis.

     I have elsewhere named, as early established, the habit of
castle-building, carried to a great extent ; and I have expressed
the belief that this was a useful exercise of the imagination not

reminiscent imagination, but constructive imagination. Another
trait, not thus far named, and which I inherited from my father,
was a dominant ideality, showing itself in a love of perfection.
In him this love was so strong that it became a hindrance.
He could not let a thing alone as being finished. With me the
desire to make work better, though pronounced, has not gone
to that excess. Still, I have never been able to rest satisfied
with anything incomplete. This has been shown in the re-

peated improvements of expression : correction, again correc-
tion, and yet again correction, has been the history of most
of my books. The love of completeness has been curiously
shown from the beginning by the habit of summarizing every
chapter. I could not leave a thing with loose ends : the ends
must be gathered together and tied up. This trait has been
further manifested in the tendency not to rest content with
induction, but to continue an inquiry until the generalization

reached was reduced to a deduction. Leaving a truth in an
inductive form in sense, leaving its parts with loose ends
A

                        is,
                          it

                                 a
                                       a
                                                                           is,
                                                                                     a
                                                                                                  a

                                                                                                                                                                           ;
and the bringing to deductive form in sense, uniting

its facts as all parts of one fact.
        general result of these natural traits and this kind of
culture was an attitude of detachment. The absence of those

studies, linguistic and historical, which form so large part of
the ordinary education, left me free from the bias given by the
plexus of traditional ideas and sentiments. This detachment
had the same kind of effect as the detachment from surrounding
authorities. All influences thus conspired to make me entirely
open to receive those impressions and ideas produced by direct
converse with things. Elsewhere have referred to the fact
                                             I
that when thirteen, spite of the high authorities against me,
                                                a
denied the existence of inertia as positive force and have
I                                                           ;
           if ;
                it itinstancedas showing unusual independence of judgment,

                                       a it
at the same time that implied an unusual intuition of physical
truths. These two traits, joined with constructive imagination
                                             a

unusually active, and                        great love of completeness, may be

considered as forming my positive mental equipment at the
               which there should             be added the
outset     to  may be so called,             of absence of  negative  ineq"utiph-e
ment,                                                       culture

humanities."
536  Life of Herbert Spencer  [APP. B.

      But I must not forget another trait of nature a relative
 liking for thought in contrast with a relative aversion to action.
 My physical constitution did not yield such overflow of energy
 as prompts some natures to spontaneous activity. In many
 directions action was entered upon rather reluctantly ; while
 thinking was a pleasure. Obviously this predominant tendency
 to contemplation has been a factor in my career.

      Letters written home when, at the age of seventeen, I com-
 menced engineering in London, show an excursiveness charac-
 teristic of me. There are, I see, some ideas respecting the
 expansion of steam in relation to its heat, which, quite wrong
 in their preliminary assumptions, imply the absurd supposition
 that the question had not been fully worked out by those who
 were competent. I refer to these as showing both the self-
 confidence and the tendency to explore in the field of physics :
 the idea of natural causation being dominant. The daily pro-

 fessional culture in surveying and making drawings of machinery,
 of course conduced to exact thinking ; ever impressing on me
 geometrical truths and the necessities of relation.

      When, after nearly a year, I migrated to the Birmingham
 and Gloucester Railway, influences of the same class continued
 in operation. But I observe here coming out the trait above
 named preference for thinking to acting. The first original
 thing I did was devising a new method of drawing the curves
 in skew arches ; and the prompting motive was aversion from
 taking much trouble. Subsequent promptings to invention
 had the same origin. The Scale of Equivalents originated
from my dislike to the labour of reducing a set of dimensions
taken in inches and eighths into hundredths of a foot ; and
though I do not trace to that cause the invention I called a
Velocimeter, which also is a means of dispensing with calcula-
tion, yet the consciousness of such labour, gone through by
a coadjutor, directed my thoughts into the channel which led
to it. Other devices, dating from that time, illustrated the same

excursiveness, self-dependence, and constructive imagination.
The latter part of my first engineering period brought me
a good deal in contact with men and with business ; and, being
left in charge of some engineering work and allowed to carry
out my own designs, there was a further familiarizing with
mechanical truths and a further fostering of self-dependence.
But here must be noted a significant fact. I became interested
in geology, and bought Lyell's Principles, etc. The result of

reading this was that, rejecting his adverse arguments, I adopted
the hypothesis of development, which ever after influenced
my thoughts. I was then twenty.

     During this time at Worcester politics received no attention
from me. But when, after the ending of my engagement on
the Birmingham and Gloucester Railway, I returned to Derby,
APP. B.]      The Filiation of Ideas                                            537

a change took place in this respect ; and in June, 1842, my
                                                                                The Non-
cthoonufogrhmtsistoonnpo" lTithiceal  matters  resulted    in the letters  t"o   a some-
                                      Proper   Sphere    of Government

what strange subject for a young man of twenty-two to enter
upon. The general tenor of these letters betrays the emotional
leanings. Individuality was pronounced in all members of the

family, and pronounced individuality is necessarily more or less
at variance with authority. A self-dependent and self-asserting
nature resists all such government as is not expressive of equit-
able restraint. Our family was essentially a dissenting family ;
and dissent is an expression of antagonism to arbitrary control.
Of course a wish to limit State-action
and this characterized the letters on                    is  a natural concomitant      ;
                                                         "   The Proper Sphere
                                                                                    of

Government." Beyond this constitutional tendency, here first
illustrated, there was shown the tendency to regard social
phenomena as subordinate to natural law : the two tendencies
being, in an indirect way, correlatives. Already in those early
days the culture I have described had fostered the belief that
in society as in the world at large, there are uniformities of
relation ; and national life was vaguely thought of as a life
having certain similarities to life at large. Though it had not

yet taken shape, there was a dim idea of a social organism.
During the several subsequent years years of miscellaneous
and futile activities mainly spent over inventions, but partly in
speculations, political, ethical, linguistic, showing as always the
excursive tendency, and during which there 'was some art-
culture drawing, modelling, and music there is little to be

noted save accentuation of traits already shown. One matter,
however, of some significance must be named. From the time
when, at about the age of eleven, I heard a series of lectures on
phrenology by Spurzheim, who was going through the country
diffusing the doctrines of Gall, I had been a believer in phreno-
logy. Though when twenty-one to twenty-four my scepticism

had not risen to the height it eventually reached, yet, as might

be anticipated, I entertained sundry phrenological heresies, and

expressed them in articles published in a quarterly journal
called The Zoist.1 Two of these I need not name ; the third
              It appeared in January, 1844, under the title
had results.  of the Functions of Imitation and Benevolence."

" A New View
The essential points in the argument were that the function of
the organ called Imitation is to produce sympathy and that
sympathy is the root of benevolence. Years afterwards I
learned that the genesis of benevolence by sympathy had been
expounded by Adam Smith ; but in 1844 I knew his name only
as the writer of The Wealth of Xations.
     During the second engineering period not much specula-

              \_Snpra, chap, iv., pp. 40, 45.]
      538                Life of Herbert Spencer                        [APP. B.

      tive activity went on. There were devices for diminishing

      monotonous labour and there was the ever-present thought of
      improvement. From the one cause resulted the little appliance
      for facilitating the plotting of sections ; and from the other

      the improved levelling-staff and the proposed new type of level.

      Here, as always, instead of accepting the settled usages, as most

      do, the fact that they were settled usages had no influence
      with me.
        Though there must have been filiations of the various
      mechanical ideas which prompted my activities between the
                   when my railway career ended
      time (1846)  literary career began, yet I              and the time       (1848)
      when my                                                cannot recall      them.

      There was a little invention, the binding pin, by which I made
      some money : there was the planing machinery by which
      I lost it ; and there were sundry ideas which did not reach
      the experimental stage. But new ideas of some kind daily

      occupied me.

          During all this second engineering period there had, I doubt
                                                                                forth
      not, been going    "onThseomPeropdeervelSopphmeerent    of the ideas set  That
      in the letters on                                     of Government."

      governmental actions should be definitely restricted was a con-
      clusion which in these letters stood without a satisfactory basis.
      What ultimate principle is it from which may be inferred the
      limits of State-action ? Analysis was required. The excogita-

      tion of this principle and the perception that not only these
      limits, but also the requirements of equity at large could be
      deduced from prompted the writing of Social                       Statics. This
                      it,                                               " The Proper
      was commenced five               aye"arhsadaftbeerenthwe ritletettne.rson
      Sphere of Government               is                        Let   me add that
                                                          I
      during the interval there had been going on that political
      activity entailed by membership of the Complete Suffrage
      Union and advocacy of the doctrine of equal political rights
        kind of activity and kind of exercised sentiment which              ;A
a II akept in mind the principle Social Statics elaborated.                               :

        Concerning Social Sfatics itself there are various noteworthy
      things to be said. There no invoking of authorities.                      few

      references, mostly dissentient, are made to ethical and political
      writers whose well-known doctrines
                                                             had gathered in the
      course of miscellaneous reading not from their books for

        never could read books the cardinal principles of which
        rejected. The course pursued in this case as in others was

      to go back to the facts as presented in human conduct and
      society, and draw inferences direct from them.
        In fulfilment of the desire for ideal completeness there was,
      at the outset, presentation of the entire field to be covered by
         system of ethics. In pursuance of the ordinary conceptiona

theologically derived, ethics had been composed of interdicts
of many desired actions and inculcations of actions not desired.
APP. B.]  The Filiation of Ideas  539

Ethical teaching had given little or no moral sanction to

pleasurable activities. If not tacitly frowned upon, they were

certainly not enjoined. But in the programme with which
Social Statics begins a programme corresponding with that
ultimately adopted in The Principles of Ethics there was a
division recognizing the ethical sanction of those actions
required for the fulfilment of the normal functions of life, and
for the obtainment of those pleasures accompanying the normal
functions. There was an assertion of the moral claims of the
individual to natural satisfactions within specified limits.

     And here, in going afresh over the facts, I observe some-
thing of which at the time I was not definitely conscious that
the first principle formulated was simply an abstract statement
of the conditions under which might equitably be pursued by
each that self-satisfaction just insisted upon as ethically war-
ranted. It was an assertion of that liberty, within limits, to
pursue the ends of life, which was implied in the assertion that
enjoyment of the ends of life is moral. And this leads to a
remark of some interest concerning the mode in which this
principle was approached. For thirty years I supposed myself
the first to enunciate this doctrine of the liberty of each
limited only by the like liberties of all the right of every man
to do what he wills so long as he does not trench upon the
similar rights of any other man. But after the lapse of that
time I learned, from a reference in Mind, that Kant had enun-
ciated this principle. After some trouble I found his enuncia-
tion ; and then it became manifest that Kant had reached the
principle from the opposite side. He had specified the limits
to the free action of the individual, leaving the free action as
a thing not itself to be asserted but rather to be tacitly implied
in the assertion of limits. I, contrariwise, had primarily asserted
the claim of each to free action, and had secondarily asserted
the limits arising from the presence of others having similar
claim to free action. The two modes of reaching this con-
clusion are significant of the difference between the social
states of Germany and England, and also significant of the
individual difference. Kant, native of a country in which sub-
ordination to authority had been all along very marked, looked
at this matter from the side of restraint individual action was
to be restrained within certain limits. And while the limits

were made authoritative, there was no corresponding authorita-
tiveness claimed for the right of free action. With me, the
converse happened. Being one of a race much more habitu-
ated to individual freedom, the primary assertion was that of
a claim to free action not a recognition of subordinations, but
the assertion of a right subject to certain subordinations. And
while this opposite method of conceiving the matter was
characteristic of a citizen of a relatively free country, it was
more especially characteristic of one in whom the maintenance
  54                     Life of Herbert Spencer                         [APP. B.

  of individuality had always been so dominant. I emphasize
  this contrast as clearly showing the extent to which the

  emotional nature influences the intellectual conclusions.

      The next fact to be named that there was now displayed
                         :

                                                       is,

                                                     it
  the tendency to pass from induction to deduction. The views
    had expressed respecting the limitation of State action to
aIcertain spheres and exclusion of from other spheres were

  lying all abroad each standing on its own merits as an inde-
  pendent belief. Dissatisfaction with that condition of thought
  led to the search for an ultimate principle from which the
  limitations were deducible and this when found proved to be
               is
                         is

                                                           ;

                                               is,
                                                       a
    principle from which were also deducible the various so-called
  rights. The whole ethical scheme, in so far as justice con-
                                                                 is
  cerned, had been reduced to completely deductive, and con-         is a

  sequently quite coherent, form satisfying the love of ideal                  It

  completeness.                                                                         is a is
      Another significant fact that throughout the whole argu-                                   is
  ment there tacitly assumed the process of Evolution, in so far
as human nature concerned. There                                                                      is a
                                                                         perpetual assump-
tion of the moral modifiability of Man, and the progressive

adaptation of his character to the social state.                         alleged
that his moral evolution depends on the development of sym-
pathy, which             held to be the root of both justice and bene-
                     is

ficence. This change of mental nature                                    ascribed to the

exercise of the sympathetic emotions consequent upon peace-
ful social life, and, therefore, tacitly implies the inheritance of
functionally-produced changes of structure. There
                                                                         also

passing recognition of Survival of the Fittest. The beneficence
of the process by which, among animals and men, the inferior

disappear and leave the superior to continue the race,

asserted but there no recognition of the consequences seen
by Mr. Darvvin.;         is
     In the last chapter, entitledis                          " General  Considerations," the
             is
evolutionary conception            distinctly brought out in many ways.
Civilization           described as continuous moulding of human
                                   a

beings to the social state, and of the social state to the human

beings as they become moulded the two acting and reacting.
                                                              :

Along with this there    is        recognized the analogy between              a

society formed of individuals and an animal formed of living
cells or units though at that time (1850) the hypothesis that
an animal     is     thus formed was, when here and there hinted,
                    ;

regarded as an absurdity. Along with the conception of this

analogy of ultimate components bet\veen the social organism
and the individual organism, there went another which proved
of far greater significance. How came by the idea that
               It
                                              I

                                                                                I

                                                                                                                          a
low type of animal consists of numerous like parts performing
like functions, while a high type of animal consists of re-
latively few unlike parts performing unlike functions, do not
                       may have been from Professor Kymer Jones's
remember.
APP. B.]            The Filiation of Ideas    541

Animal Kingdom ; for some of the facts cited are, I think, from
that work. But wherever this general truth came from, I
immediately recognized the parallelism between it and the
truth presented by low and high types of societies. This was
the earliest foreshadowing of the general doctrine of Evolution.
     For the perception that there is a progress from a uniform
to a multiform structure, and that this progress is the same in
an individual organism and in a social organism, was a recog-
nition of the progress from the homogeneous to the hetero-
geneous, though no such words were used. I had at that time

no thought of any extension of the idea ; but evidently there
was the germ which was presently to develop. I should add
that the acquaintance which I accidently made with Coleridge's
essay on the Idea of Life, in which he set forth, as though it
were his own, the notion of Schelling, that Life is the tendency
to individuation, had a considerable effect. In this same chapter
it is referred to as illustrated alike in the individuation of a

living organism, and also in the individuation of a society as it

progresses.

Shortly before, or immediately after, the publication of Social
Statics, I made the acquaintance of Mr. G. H. Lewes at one of
Chapman's soirees. We became mutually interested, and walked
towards our homes together. I remember the incident because
conversation during the walk having turned upon the Develop-
ment Question, I surprised Mr. Le\ves by rejecting the view set
forth in the Vestiges of the Xatural History of Creation, which he
supposed to be the only view, and asserting the view that func-
tional adaptation is the sole cause of development. I name
the fact as showing what my belief was at the close of 1850 or

beginning of 1851.

Nothing noteworthy in the development of ideas occurred
during that period of mental inertia which followed the publica-
tion of Social Statics. I think it probable, however, that further
materials for thought were afforded by the lectures of Professor
Owen on Comparative Osteology, given at the College of Sur-
geons, which I attended. Along with a mass of details, there
were presented to me certain general facts which were sug-
gestive. An hypothesis sets up a process of organization in
thoughts previously lying unorganized. The effect is analogous
to that which results when a sperm-cell is added to a germ-cell.
In the facts as exhibited throughout Professor Owen's lectures,
there were many illustrations of the truth that the skeletons of
low types of animals are relatively            in their structures
showing what he then and at other    uniform  used to call " vegeta-
                                      times

tive repetition." I could not accept his Platonic notion of an
ideal vertebra, of which he considered each actual vertebra an
embodiment ; but his facts illustrated progress from the uniform
to the multiform in the course of osteological organization. I
do not remember that I thought anything to that effect, but
542              Life of Herbert Spencer     [APP. B.

here were materials for further development of the conception
illustrated at the close of Social Statics.
The acquaintance made with Mr. G. H. Lewes was followed
by two country excursions which we made together in the
autumn of 1851 the first up the Thames Valley from Maiden-
head as far as Abingdon, and the other in Kent, in the neigh-
bourhood of Maidstone. They were accompanied by a great
deal of philosophic talk. One effect, as indicated in George

Eliot's Life, was to give him an active scientific interest.
Another effect was that a leaf I gathered suggested to me
certain facts of plant-structure : recognition of the Law of
Organic Symmetry being the ultimate consequence. 1 During
the second excursion I made acquaintance with a little book
just published by Milne-Edwards, which we looked into on
board the steamer carrying us to Gravesend. It set forth the
luminous idea of u the physiological*division of labour." Though
the conception was not new to me, for it was illustrated at the
close of Social Statics, yet this phrase, expressing an analogy
between individual organizations and social organizations in so
vivid a manner, gave greater distinctness to pre-existing
thoughts. The reading of Lewes's Biographical History of
Philosophy, which resulted from my acquaintance with him, did
not, so far as I remember, give origin to any special ideas ; but it

gave me an interest in philosophical and pyschological inquiries
greater than had before existed. Presentation of the doctrines

of various schools throughout the past served, not so much as a

means of acquiring their thoughts as a means of stimulating my
own thoughts,    "afnirdosctcthumipsoienedtfhfescmtoefb. e1g8aC5nh2apptrmheesaenne, stlsyatyhteononshptorhwoepir"tiseTethlof.er oroyf

     During the
of Population
the Westminster Review, to whom I had on some occasion
expressed my view respecting the decrease of fertility which
goes along with higher development, had been anxious to have
an article on the subject. I at first declined for the assigned
reason that I proposed to write a book about the matter.

Subsequently circumstances decided me to accede to Chapman's
proposal, and the article was written for the April number.
Here again was illustrated the truth that a germinal idea
thrown among unorganized materials sets up organization.
The notion had been present with me, certainly from 1846-7,
and how much earlier I do not know. 2 But now the working
hypothesis soon caused such knowledge as I had to take shape,

and gave the power of rapidly assimilating other knowledge.
Support was found in the doctrine of individuation above

named ; for a thesis running throughout the essay is that
individuation and reproduction are antagonistic a formula

     1 [Suflra, chap, vi., p. 63.]  - \Sufira, chap, vi., p. 64.]
APP. The Filiation of Ideas 543
       B.]
                       it,

                              is

                                A
                                                      I
which, expressed in physical terms, as should in later days
                        equivalent to Integration and Disintegra-
have expressed
tion are antagonistic.
                                   collateral effect of the reading of
                       on the Idea     of Life was
Coleridge's    essay    definition of   Life than "                              that of making
me seek a      better                                                            the tendency to

Individuation." Hence resulted the definition given in that

essay the coordination of actions. Though better one, this
I
                                                       it

                                                                                          a

                                                                                                                                              1

                                                                                 I
formula was incomplete because limited the conception to
actions going on within the organism, without reference to
tPhoopsAueslaetxinotaenrrrna"atleldeadctietoolnsesmwyhwehrfreici,ehndtthhseihsyipaerwsesiatayhdjuHosuntexdle" yTto.h. e
                                                                                                                                                 Theory of
                                                                                                                                                  name the

fact here because within a few weeks of its commencement

there was an incident which fixes the date of one of my beliefs.
   had suggested an introduction to Lewes, and had taken
Huxley to Bedford Place, x Kensington, where Lewes then
resided. On our way back the discussion turned on the
Development question, and he ridiculed the notion of a chain

of beings.     said that no more accepted that symbol than
               II

                          a

                                I

                                                             ;

                                                a

                                                   It

                                                                is
he did, and that tree was the true symbol. How long had
thought this do not know but the incident shows that before                                                              a
that time there had arisen belief which we shall presently                                                                     a

see pervaded other speculations.                                                 observable that this                           I

conception of divergent and redivergent branches implies the

conception of increasing multiformity or heterogeneity one
thing giving origin to many things the thoughts are manifestly
               it
akin.              a (a
                                a

                                                                              :

                                                                      a
                                                                   a
   Persuaded by Lewes, who was at that time literary editor
of the Leader          paper which died few years afterwards),
                                                                                            title of u The
I  wrote for   Papersse"ries  of short essays                                  under the    holding them
Haythorne                     name given as                                        bracket

together. They show the usual excursiveness, and tendency
everywhere to analyze and to generalize. The second of them,
entitled u The Development Hypothesis," was of fundamental
                       shows that in 1852 the belief in organic evolu-
significance.  2

                   It

tion had taken deep root, and had drawn to itself                                                                                                large
amount of evidence evidence not derived from numerous

special instances but derived from the general aspects of
organic nature, and from the necessity of accepting the hypo-
thesis of Evolution when the hypothesis of Special Creation
has been rejected. The Special Creation belief had dropped
out of my mind many years before, and could not remain in
                a:

                                                                     -'

                                                 I

                                                                                                                     a
suspended state -acceptance of the only conceivable alternative
was peremptory. This distinct and public enunciation of the
belief was but giving definite form to thoughts which had

been gradually growing, as was shown in Social Statics.

       [Supra, chap, vi., p. 65.]      [6'.t>ra, chap, vi., p. 65.]
544                     Life of Herbert Spencer                                    [APP. B.

From this time onwards the evolutionary interpretation of
things in general became habitual, and manifested itself in
                        One would                                            find it in an
curious ways.           Philosophy  onfotSthyaleve"   expected   to          close of that
essay on u The                                        ; but at  the

essay, written in 1852, the truth that progress in style is from
uniformity to multiformity from a more homogeneous to a
more heterogeneous form finds expression : showing that in

mental products, too, the distinctive nature of high structure
                                                      anTheessapyrogornes"s        thought in
was beginning to        be recognized.                                         of   Universal
another direction       was shown in
                                                                             The
Postulate." 1 I had been reading Mill's Logic. In it occur his
strictures on Whewell ; and while agreeing as to the unsound-
ness of Whewell's doctrine, I did not agree in the reason for
rejecting it. Hence the essay. This involved the first ex-
pression of metaphysical convictions ; for the outcome of the

argument was a defence of realism and an assertion of the
impossibility of establishing any belief at variance with it.
Up to this time, thinking with me had been mainly concrete
in character, but now it assumed an abstract character ; and
thereafter the abstract and the concrete went hand in hand,
                                                                                doing. This
as the inductive        and the deductive             w" ereendaeldreaidny   a
essay on u The          Universal Postulate                                      controversy
with Mill, which, taking its first shape in the next edition of
his Logic, went on at intervals in an amicable manner for

some years and          oenve"nMtuaanllnyerlsedantod  oFuarshfriioennd"sdheipv.elopmental  ideas

     In an essay
again displayed themselves. The origin of institutions by a
process of evolution was taken for granted ; and there was
delineated the rise of the different kinds of government by
divergence from one original kind, which united the cere-
monial, the political, and the ecclesiastical. There was also

this same idea running throughout the account of the genesis
of the different forms of manners from simple original forms

a mulplication of kinds from one kind.

    A like trend of thought was shown in "The Art of
Education," published in the North British Review (since
deceased), and now embodied in my little book on Education.
Various evolutionary corollaries were drawn from the proposi-
tion that the unfolding of a child's mind repeats the unfolding
of the mind in the human race. It was urged that education
                        "from
must   p"rolickeeedall          the simple to the complex," since the
mind,                   things  that develop, progresses from the homo-
geneous to the heterogeneous." It was contended that the
development of mind "is an advance from the indefinite to the
definite," and                                        follow that course. A further
corollary was   that    taesa"chhinugmamniutyst
                that                                  had progressed solely by self-

                        1 {Supra, chap, vi., pp. 67, 69, 73.]
A pp. B.]         The Filiation of Ideas  545

instruction," "self-development should be encouraged to the
uttermost in the child."

     About this time, 1854, Miss Martineau's abridged transla-
tion of Comte's works was published. I had already gathered
a notion of his system from Lewes, who was a disciple and
had written in the Leader some papers giving an abstract
of it ; and a more specific knowledge of Comte's cardinal
ideas had been gained in 1852, from reading the introduction
at the instigation of George Eliot, and with her aid. She,
too, was anxious that I should accept Posivitist doctrines. But
the reading of the Introduction, while it left me undecided
respecting the doctrine of the Three Stages, was followed

by immediate rejection of the Classification of the Sciences.
Now that the translation was published, I looked further into
the Positive Philosophy, with the result that I engaged to write
a review of it for the British Quarterly. Being an impatient
reader, especially when reading views from which I dissent,
I did not go far. But the part I read, and which prompted
me to write a criticism, had a very important effect. I have
said elsewhere that I owe much to Comte not in the sense
assumed by his disciples, but in an opposite sense. I owe to
him the benefits of an antagonism which cleared and developed
my own view's, while assigning reasons for dissenting from his.

Rejection of his ideas concerning the development of the
                                ideas of my own which are set forth
sincien" cTesh,e  led to those  Science" ; and these had significant
                   Genesis of

relations to the psychological ideas soon afterwards elaborated.
The rise of certain fundamental perceptions and fundamental

acts of reasoning was ascribed to gradual organization of
experiences. There was a development of the idea of likeness,
and out of this the idea of equality and inequality. From the
likenesses and unlikenesses of things, a transition to the like-

nesses and unlikenesses of relations, was alleged ; and this,
leading to recognition of the equality of relations, was repre-
sented as the basis of reasoning. Then it was shown that

throughout this development divergence and re-divergence go

on, causing multiplication and heterogeneity of sciences : the
symbol of a tree being here again used. And it was further
pointed out that along with differentiation of the sciences there

goes increasing interdependence, that is to say, integration.
Thus, w-hile there were several traits foreshadowing a psycho-

logical theory, there were other traits foreshadowing a general

evolutionary conception, in so far as it concerns intelligence

and its products. 1

     In what year I decided to write a book on the Principles of
Psychology I do not remember. 2 But in 1853, there was reached

1 [Supra, chap, vii., pp. 72, 74.]  - [Supra, chap, vi., p. 67.]

 35
546         Life of Herbert Spencer                                             [APP. B.

one of its  olefadliifnegasvie" wths,e  consequent on  the perception that the
definition                              co-ordination  of actions," required to

be supplemented by recognition of the relations borne by such
co-ordinated actions to connected actions in the environment.
There at once followed the idea that the growth of a corre-
spondence between inner and outer actions had to be traced
up from the beginning ; so as to show the way in which Mind
gradually evolves out of Life. This was, I think, the thought
which originated the book and gave its most distinctive char-
acter ; but evidently, the tendency to regard all things as
evolved, which had been growing more pronounced, gave
another special interest to the undertaking. The evolutional
.view of human nature had been assumed all through Social

Statics, and in the essay on "The Development Hypothesis"
belief in evolution had been distinctly avowed as holding
of the organic creation. The progress of organisms and of
societies from the uniform to the multiform had been recog-

nized, and the thought of increasing mutual dependence of
ppharratsseha"dthbeepenhyasicocleongtiucaatleddivbisyiomn eeotfinlgabowuitrh."  Milne- Edwards's
                                                                                  Then came the

congruous formula of Von Baer of development from the
homogeneous to the heterogeneous. At the same time had

arisen the correlative conception of divergence and rediver-

gence, and consequent increasing multiformity, as occurring
in organisms, in governmental organizations, and in the genesis
of the sciences. Advance from the indefinite to the definite,
as displayed in the individual mind and in the mind of humanity,
had also been recognized. Thus various ideas, forming com-
ponents of a theory of evolution, were lying ready for organiza-
tion. And after publication of the essay on u The Genesis of
Science," in which the evolutional view of mental progress was
so pronounced and coherent, the Principles of Psychology, which
for a year or more previously had been taking shape, was com-

menced." 1

"    Under  Sthyenthpesriosm"ptiwnagss  above described, the part               entitled
   General                                                                      devoted
                                        the one to which I first

myself ; and it was the writing of this that led to a wider and
gmcHheoonamrpeeotoeucgrsose,h"neaerro"eenuTstsho,"emcoeI"nnceTteenhptgeittrliaeoCtdnioornor"ef sToepfhvoeoCnloduCretrioneorcsnrepe. ospnodaAnesmdnecdoeninscr.ege"ctthaebsHuctdeoimrreeHp,ceotttneheaernnontd-,
in another sphere had arisen the recognition of progress from
the homogeneous to the heterogenous ; and it was the joining
of this with the various previous recognitions which led to the
question Is not change from homogeneity to heterogeneity
universal ? The question needed only to be asked to be

            1 [Supra, chap, vii., pp. 72, 74.]
APP. B.]               The Filiation of Ideas                                       547

answered affirmatively. In pursuance of that tendency which

I have before described as characteristic, there forthwith
arose a desire to find for this induction a deductive in-
terpretation. This universal proclivity must have a universal
cause. What is that cause ? And the answer soon reached
was that it is the multiplication of effects. It was at Treport
in August, 1854, that this generalization, inductive and deduc-
                                 I immediately
tive,  was    reached    *  and                                         decided     that as soon
                       ;
as the Principles of Psychology was completed I would write
an essay under the title "The Cause of all Progress." Whether
I then wrote to Chapman proposing such an article for the
Westminster Review, or whether I made the proposal when I saw
him in London later in the year, I cannot remember. I think

the last is the more probable. Certainly, however, before the
close of the year an agreement was made for such an article :

the    title, however,  being negatived      byLaCwhaapnmdanCaausseap"pebaeriinngg
too    ambitious, and     '' Progress : its

substituted.

     Of course the evolution of mind thus traced up throughout
the Animal Kingdom as a part of the progressive correspon-
dence between inner and outer actions, could be made clear

only by     voanrio"uTs heseqNuaetnutreinotef rpInrettealltiigonesn.ce  "Haenndce"  resulted the
chapters
                                                                                    The Law of
Intelligence." After these more abstract conceptions came the
more concrete conceptions of Reflex Action, Instinct and

Reason as conforming to the general view. Finally, on rising

up to human faculties, regarded as organized results of this

intercourse between the organism and the environment, there

was reached the conclusion that the so-called forms of thought

are the outcome of the process of perpetually adjusting inner

relations to outer relations ; fixed relations in the environment
producing fixed relations in the mind. And so came a recon-
ciliation of the a priori view with the experiential view. The

whole theory of mental development as thus presented, assumed
that the correspondence between inner and outer came to be

gradually established because the effects registered in the
nervous systems of one generation were more or less trans-

mitted as modifications of the nervous systems in the next

generation. Though, nowadays, I see that the natural selection

of variations in the nervous system has been a factor, and,

in the earliest stages, perhaps the most important factor, yet
I still hold, as I then held, that the inheritance of functionally-
wrought modifications is the chief and almost exclusive factor
in the genesis of all the more complex instincts and all the
higher mental powers. But the evolutionary view of mind,
though manifested throughout the whole argument of these

                            1 [Supra, chap, vii., p. 75.]
548                Lije of Herbert Spencer                                               [APP. B.

chapters, was not put into the foreground ; partly, I suppose,
because the evolutionary view of Life in general was at that
lt"yimsTihseTeh"aelwmGaetohsnseetsssuiuissgngievoeelsfartbseSoadcrlliayebtneycdreet,hj"eienctrcetehodsenpcealducnitsvdiiniosgmniosonsthtrleeeyanctdrihtiedleveidedcluoilnp"emdSt.ehpneetceiaslsoafAy nthoane-
ideas of equality of things and equality of relations. It needs
but to read that essay to see that this conception of growing
intellectual perceptions arose in the course of a search for the
initial ideas of science ; and,                                              it will be
that the successive chapters                   on  thcoism"paSrpiseocnia, l  Analysis    "maarneifebsutt
                                               of

an elaboration of that initial thought. Here the remarkable
fact to be noted is that there has, unintentionally as I believe,

resulted a complete correspondence between the General Syn-

thesis and the Special Analysis between the putting together
and the taking to pieces ; for the adjustment of inner relations

to outer relations, posited in the one case, in the other case,
the root down to which the mental                                     is,
cerning the conclusions which make                                          is
                                                       structure             SpectiraalceAdn. alyCsoisn"-
                                                       up the "
one only calls for separate mention the paradoxical one that
Logic, hitherto regarded as subjective science, in reality an
                                           it a

                                                  a
                                                               a
                                                                                    is

                                                                            I
objective science. Authority and long usage may give such
                                                                                         have fur-
strength to a belief that no disproof changes it.

nished triple demonstration of the objective nature of Logic,
but the old idea persists without even sign of change.Ia
As stated in the preface to the volume when published in
                                                                       which would have
July,  1855,       there  was    omitted       was ficnaallledp,ar"t  Physical Synthesis."
been   called,     as in  after  years

In this had intended to show the way in which these evolu-
tionary mental processes are to be interpreted as resulting from

the passage of nervous discharges along lines of least resistance,

which became lines of less and less resistance in proportion as

they were oftener and more strongly traversed.

     Concerning the       ideas of             t"hiws aws osrekt     remains only to addit
that in the u General      Analysis                               forth the logical justifi-

cation of that Realism without which the evolutionary view, in
common with scientific views at large, becomes inconceivable.
was an elaboration of the Universal Postulate and its corol-
It

                :

            it
laries the general thesis being that Idealism takes for granted

at every step of its argument the validity of that test-proof
which ends by tacitly denying.

After the interval of incapacity for work extending from July,

1855 to January,          "18P5r7ogressat      length prepared the long-contem-
plated essay on              ;                                                  1
                                                its Law and Cause." This was
                              ;I
                                            :
published in April, 1857 and in the general conception which
                                                   it

                          1  [Supra, chap, vii., p. 83.]
APP. B.]  Tke Filiation of Ideas                                                              549

had been reached in August, 1854, was set forth in detail. Here

may fitly be remarked a disproof of the statement not uncom-

monly made that my thinking has been a priori. Besides many

other evidences, the genesis of this essay is a clear demonstra-
tion to the contrary. Progress from homogeneity to hetero-
geneity was observed now in one class of phenomena and now

in another, until the instances had become many and varied.

Only then came the generalization that this transformation is
universal ; and only then did there commence a search for the
ultimate truth from which the induction might be deduced.
But in some men and especially so was it in Huxley the

hatred of deductive reasoning is such that the mere fact that an
induction can be interpreted deductively arouses doubt. The
rhythm of action and reaction necessarily carries opinion to
extremes ; and the reaction against a priori reasoning in Biology
and Geology, had gone to the extreme of repudiating all reason-

ing but the a posteriori.
The origin of the next step I cannot remember. Whether
it was that on contemplating the multiplication of effects there
arose the question How does there arise the first effect ? I do
not know. But a short time after the publication of the above -

named essay, came perception of the truth that a state of
bh" oyTmhmoeegeUn"littTiymraanitssecaeLnnadwuensnstotaafbllPePhhysystsaioitoelo.loggyy,I",n"  an article originally called
                                                                                               but entitled by the editor
                                                                                              a statement of this general
truth was published in the National Review for October, 1857. 1
This generalization was not like the other inductively reached,
but was, I think, deductive from the outset : resulted from the
prosecution of analysis. But though not forced upon me by
observation it was, in the essay named, exemplified by facts of
various orders : the deduction was here verified by induction.
At the same time was set forth the process of integration as part

of the process of evolution, both organic and social. But, as in
the Principles of Psychology so here, it made its appearance as
a subordinate or secondary process was not recognized as a
primary process. The development of thought in this direction
was delayed until some seven years had passed.
During the same summer, while rambling in Scotland, there
was written another essay, evolutionary in substance though not
professedly forming a part of the doctrine the essay on u The
Origin and Function of Music." How there had arisen the
belief that music results from development and idealization of
those cadences of the voice which indicate emotion, I cannot
remember. But it shows again the ever-present belief in

natural genesis the growth of the complex out of the simple.
There had probably suggested itself the question Where does

          \Supra, chap, vii., p. 83.]
55  Life of Herbert Spencer       [APP. B.

music come from ? and in default of the theory of supernatural
endowment, the origin set forth seemed the only possible one.

     The drift of thought thus so variously displayed, was now
made still more decided by re-reading my essays while prepar-
ing them for publication in a volume : and thereupon followed
the final result. 1 During a walk one fine Sunday morning (or
perhaps it may have been New Year's Day) in the Christmas of
1857-8 I happened to stand by the side of a pool along which
a gentle breeze was bringing small waves to the shore at my
feet. While watching these undulations I was led to think of

other undulations other rhythms ; and probably, as my manner
was, remembere'd extreme cases the undulations of the ether,

and the rises and falls in the prices of money, shares, and com-

modities. In the course of the walk arose the inquiry Is not
the rhythm of motion universal ? and the answer soon reached
was Yes. Presently either forthwith or in the course of the
next few days came a much more important result. This
generalization concerning the rhythm of motion recalled the
generalization which was to have been set forth in the unwritten

part of the Principles of Psychology the generalization that
motion universally takes place along the line of least resistance.
Moreover there had become familiar to me the doctrine of the
Conservation of Force, as it was then called in those days a
novelty ; and with this was joined in my mind Sir William
Groves's doctrine of the correlation of the physical forces. Of

course these universal principles ranged themselves alongside
the two universal principles I had been recently illustrating
the instability of the homogeneous and the multiplication of
effects. As, during the preceding year, I had been showing
how throughout all orders of phenomena, from nebular genesis

to the genesis of language, science, art, there ever goes on a
change of the simple into the complex, of the uniform into the
multiform, there naturally arose the thought these various
universal truths are manifestly aspects of one universal trans-
formation. Surely, then, the proper course is thus to exhibit
them to treat astronomy, geology, biology, psychology, soci-
ology and social products, in successive order from the evolu-
tion point of view. Evidently these universal laws of force to
which conforms this unceasing redistribution of matter and
motion, constitute the nexus of these concrete sciences express
a community of nature which binds them together as parts of a
whole. And then came the idea of trying thus to present
them. Some such thoughts they were which gave rise to my
project, and which, a few days later, led to the writing out

    \Supra, chap, viii., p. 85.]
A PP. B.]  The Filiation of Ideas                                                                                                                    551

of the original programme, still extant.. This I sent to my
father on the 9th January, 1858. 1

      During the subsequent two years, partly occupied with vain
endeavours to find some way of executing my project, there
appears to have taken place some elaboration of this pro-
gramme ; but, so far as I remember, no important addition was
made to its leading ideas ; unless it be the conclusion that these
laws of transformation, and the ultimate physical laws whence
they result, are all corollaries from the Persistence of Force.
This may, however, have been a later conclusion, but, when-
ever arrived at, it implied the analytic habit ; since it gave an
answer to the questions Why is the homogeneous unstable ?
Why do effects multiply ? Why is motion rhythmical ? There
was no rest till there was reached this final truth not to be
transcended a truth equivalent to the truth that existence can
neither arise out of nothing nor lapse into nothing.

     The evolutionary belief implied interest in all orders of
phenomena throughout which, according to its thesis, it should
be displayed. Hence physical astronomy became interesting.
During many preceding years the Nebular Hypothesis had
been apparently discredited by the revelations of Lord Rosse's
telescope : the resolution of various apparent nebulae into
clusters of stars, was supposed to have given the Coup de grace
to the theories of Kant and Laplace ; or, at any rate, it was
concluded that all such support as appeared to be furnished by
the present existence of nebulous matter was dissipated. It
was supposed that these luminous patches which powerful
telescopes proved to consist of enormous numbers of stars, were
remote sidereal systems similar to our own. Of course under
these circumstances I was prompted to look into the evidence,
and was soon convinced that the reasoning assigned for this
conclusion was vicious. This led to the essay on u Recent
Astronomy and the Nebular Hypothesis," published in the
Westminster Review for July, 1858. It contained proofs that the
current conclusion was untrue, and that these clusters of stars
form parts of our own sidereal system. This has since become
an accepted doctrine. The invalidity of the reason for reject-
ing the nebular hypothesis at large having been shown, there

aUrnei1vrei[grInhsittyri,enpPlrcyorevditdoiteinnqcguee,smtiSeopnewsnicthferromthweroPtirneotfr(eo1s5dsuoAcrtuigounAs.t,oSf.1t9h0Pe2a)cwk: ao"rrddI,    of Brown
                                                                                                                                                     believe you
                                                                                                                                                     'evolution.'
I did not, however, introduce it in the place of 'epigenesis,' or any word
of specially biological application, but as a word fit for expressing the
proc"esI sbeolfieevveoltuhteioninttrhordouucgthioonut   its entire range, inorganic and                                                              organic.
                                                       of it was between 1857, when '                                                                Progress  :

its Law and Cause ' (was issued), and the time when the scheme for the
Synthetic Philosophy was drawn up ; and the adoption of it arose from
the perception that 'progress' has an anthropocentnc meaning, and that
there needed a word free from that."]
552  Life of Herbert Spencer                                                  [APP. B.

followed an exposition of the reasons for believing in the
nebular genesis of the solar system. Additional reasons of
significance were assigned. One of them was that according to
the ratio between centrifugal force and gravity in each planet is
the greater or smaller number of satellites it possesses. Another
was that to variations in this ratio, unlike in each planet, are
ascribable the different specific gravities of the planets. With
acceptance of the hypothesis of Olbers respecting the missing
planet, went the conclusion that the celestial bodies are neither
solid nor liquid all through ; but that the interior of each con-
sists of gases reduced by pressure to the density of liquids. It

had been shown that gases may be compressed to that degree
of density without liquefying ; and since then the experiments
of Prof. Andrews, proving that there is a critical temperature
above which no pressure, producing however great a density,
will cause liquefaction, has made this view more tenable than
it at first appeared. In recent years it has been enunciated
afresh in Germany by Dr. August Ritter in 1882. Of course
the conclusion that from the bursting of a planet thus consti-

tuted, resulted the asteriods, has gained an ever-increasing
support from the ever-increasing number of them discovered ;
for it is manifest that of the multitudinous fragments the larger
would be relatively few, and that with successive decreases of
size would go increases of numbers : an inference correspond-
ing with the facts. An explanation of comets and meteor-
showers was also afforded. It should be added that I ventured
to dissent from the theory of the Sun held by Sir John Herschel,
that the photosphere incloses a dark body, rendered visible
through breaches in the photosphere known as spots. In pur-
suance of the view that the Sun is the product of a still-concen-
trating nebula, the temperature of which is too high to permit
solidification, it was contended that the photosphere consists of
metallic vapours ever rising and precipitating : a view soon
afterwards verified by the discoveries of Kirchhoff and Bunsen.
An extreme illustration of that disregard for authority character-
izing me was thus shown ; for the then current view respecting
the nebulae, and the view respecting the constitutiou of the
Sun, had the highest warrant. I must however, in candour, add

-that the essay contained some serious mistakes one especially
concerning the distribution of comets from which I thought

evidence was derivable. 1

The ever-present interest in the idea of evolution as ex-
tending to all orders of phenomena, prompted other audacities
displayed at this time. One of them was a criticism upon
IPtrowfa. sOpwuebnl'isshAerdcheintypteheanBdritHisohmoalongdiesFooref igthne
                                                                              Vertebrate Skeleton.

                                                                              Medico-Chirurgical

     [Supra, chap, xxvi., pp. 424-45.]
                                 The Filiation                                      Ideas
A PP.  a                                                                                             553

         B.]

                                                                                 1

                                         of
Review for October, 1858, and afterwards appended to the
second volume of the Biology. Of course his theory, which
was modern application of the Platonic theory of Ideas,
conflicted with the evolutionary view of the organic world.
The purpose of the essay was two-fold to show the incon-
sistencies of his reasoning, and to show how, by mechanical

actions and reactions between organism and environment, the

segmentation of the vertebral column might be produced.                                          2I  may

     In the same manner was to be accounted for, and

add    "exIclluosgeidc,altheGeaouldoagcyit,y"  shown in an article written in 1858
on                                             in which certain views of Lyell,

Murchison, and Hugh Miller were adversely criticized. The
pushing of evolutionary inquiries in all directions necessarily
brought me face to face with geological facts, and theories,
and with the palaeontological evidence accompanying them.
The notion, still at that time generally accepted among geolo-
gists, that during past eras there had occasionally occurred
                                                                                                 it

                                                                                                       a
                                                                                                                 a
sweeping away of the old organic types and the creation of
new set, was of course utterly repugnant to me, and became
aneedful to examine the reasonings which led to such con-
ception. It was shown that geological evidence does not
     Awarrant it.
    This same period (1858-60) gave birth to several other
                           3 '1
essays pervaded by the same general thoughts. One of them,

on "The Law of Organic Symmetry," was published in the
Medico-Chirurgical Review for January, 1859. As already said,
                                 I
                                              I

                                                        (I
                                                                                              8
this arose from an observation                               made during my excursion
with Lewes in 1851.
                                               do not remember that the general
formula of Evolution was referred to have not got the essay
at hand), but the interpretation was evolutionary. The transi-
tions from spherical and radial symmetry to bilateral symmetry,
and in some cases to asymmetry, were shown to illustrate the
general proposition that the forms of parts are determined by
their relations to surrounding actions growths being equal
                                                I
                                                                            :

                                                                                it
where the incident forces are equal and unequal where the
incident forces are unequal.                            should remark, however, that

the interpretation was incomplete in so far that recognized
inorganic forces only heat, light, gravitation, etc. and did
not recognize any organic agency, such as the influence of
insects in developing the forms of flowers.
       criticism of Prof. Bain's work on The Emotions and the
Will was written at this time, and naturally from the evolution
point of view.
tion of mental                   Especially this seen in proposed                                classifica-
                                               is                                   a            " whether
                                                    is
                                 states, which               said to be justified

                                 [Supra, chap, viii., p. 87.]
                                 \Supra, chap, viii., 95 chap, xxvi., pp. 424-45.]
                                 \Supra, chap, viii., 87.]
                                               p. p.
                                                          ;
554               Life of Herbert Spencer           [APP. B.

we trace mental progression through the grades of the animal
kingdom, through the grades of mankind, or through the stages
of individual growth." 1
     Then came the essay on " The Social Organism," 2 in which

is observable the growth between 1850 and 1860 : the first

being the date at which, in Social Statics, there had occurred
the primary recognition of the analogy between an individual
organism and a social organism. In this essay, as in its germ
ten years before, the fundamental parallelism recognized is in
that mutual dependence of parts which both display ; and all
the phenomena of organization, individual or social, are re-
garded as having this as their cause. Any one who refers to
Social Statics (pp. 452 456, original edition ; pp. 264 267,
revised edition) will see that this was the root-idea and that
this dominates the developed idea. He will also see how
entirely without            it                      f"anTchifeulSoncoitaiolnsOrgoafnisPmlato"
and of Hobbes.    kinship  the         is to   the
                  But in                essay   on

the general conception indicated in Social Statics, while

developed in detail, has also become affiliated on the general

doctrine of Evolution. In the first place, the mutual de-
pendence of parts is shown to involve an increasing integration,
                           numerous illustrations which
and in the second place,    by the statement that " not  society
furnishes are summed up                                  only is
all progress from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous, but,
at the same time, it is from the indefinite to the definite."
And now came the actual start. 3 Ideas which had become

fairly definite and coherent were now to be made quite definite
while being elaborated in First Principles.
     As shown by the original programme, I had from the outset
seen the need for specifying my position in respect to meta-

physico-theological beliefs. If all things were to be interpreted
in terms of the redistribution of matter and motion, I must

guard myself against ascription of the materialism apparently
implied. Along with such an interpretation must go the ad-
mission, or rather the assertion, that our ideas of matter
and motion are but symbols of that which transcends the
possibilities of knowledge : and that hence, any explanation of
the order of the changes which the Cosmos exhibits, still leaves

unexplained the nature and origin of them.
     Hence came to be thought out and written the preliminary
division of First Principles " The Unknowable." An absurd
misconception resulted. While this was simply an introduc-
tion intended to exclude misinterpretations, it was, by the few

who paid any attention to the book, regarded as its substance.
Having inspected the portico, they turned their backs on the
building ! The general doctrine of a universal transformation,

     1 [Sufira, chap, viii., p. 96. n          - [Supra, chap, viii., p. 96.]
                  3 [Supra, chap, ix., p. 100.]
APP. The Filiation of Ideas 555B.J

conforming everywhere to the same laws, was passed by as
not calling for exposition or comment or, recognized at all,
                         to be sequence of Darwin's doctrine of    is                  a if                      "natural
wsealsecstiuopnpo"sed   The thought of the muddle-headed public       a;                                         seems to
              :!        is
                                a                                                   ;
have been Both are evolutionary one was published later than

the other therefore the second                                             development of the first.             1

              ;

    The second division of First Principles, constituting its"

essential part, mainly, as above implied, an elaboration of
                                                                                                                 tohfre"eSefgurrethgae-r
the ideas already specified.                                   It  contains, however,
ideas of cardinal importance.                                      One the process
                                                                   a

                                                                        I is
tion" which, though indirectly implied in some of the essays,
had not before taken shape as necessary part of Evolution.
                                                                                       have dim recollection
    second concerned the final stage.
A

                                                      :
that, referring to the general process of transformation set
forth in u Progress its Law and Cause," which had been the

topic of    conversation                                       (during an   afternoon  call at                   aHlul xelnedy's)",
Tyndall   put to me the                                         question   " But how   does
                                                                         2

                                                                            I

                                                                                      is
                                                                                                    it

                                                                                                           it
                                                                                                                                                       ?
or some question to that effect.                                                       cannot now remember

whether the answer was given forthwith or whether came

only after reflection but my impression                                                that up to that time
I
                It a

                                                            ;
had not considered what was the outcome of this unceasing

change to state ever more' heterogeneous and ever more
                                                                                                                 "brwinags
definite.               neaendsewder,onalyndtothaeskchtahpeteqrueosntio"n,Eqhuoiwliebvreart,ionto
the inevitable

the result.       And then, in                                  pursuance   of the     same line of thought,
embodying        ciotsmelpfleitnedthe"                         question                 happens after equili-
bration                                                                    " What      reply, tl Dissolution."

                                                               there came the
    I
             is

                  it
                                                           ?

                                                                it
                                                                                            it
This was at once recognized as complementary to Evolution,

and similarly universal.

         may add that the expositions contained in the successive
chapters of the second division of First Principles, were easier
to write than at first appears. Having in each case got hold
of the clue, was not difficult to follow out among all orders

of phenomena. Bearing the generalization in mind, needed
only to turn from this side to that side, and from one class of
facts to another, to find everywhere exemplifications.

    In the first paragraph of the Principles                                                 Biology may be
                                                                   a

                                                                                      of
perceived the effect of bringing general view to the study of
    special subject. The characterization of organic matter
a                                                                                                                is,
                                                                                                                       ; is
           It

                    is
obviously determined by the doctrine contained in First Prin-
                        pointed out that its elements present two marked
ciples.
contrasts carbon extremely fixed, hydrogen very volatile
oxygen extremely active, nitrogen very inactive. That                                                            the

components are specially heterogeneous and the heterogeneity
                        p. is

                                     ;
                                                      p.
                                                                        ;

                                                                                     ;

                                                                              p.

                                                                                                              ;
of the compound                                                increased by the presence of phosphorus

21  \Supra, chaps, xv., 201 xviii.,                                252 xxviii.,        464 xxx., p. 518.]
    \Supra, chap, ix., p. 103.]
556              Life of Herbert Spencer          [APP. B.

and sulphur. To this peculiar composition is ascribed that
great instability which fits organic matter for those easy and
perpetual changes implied by life ; while in the fact that three
of its chief components, being gaseous, severally contain in
their combined state immense amounts of molecular motion,

is seen that constitution which makes it a source of visible
activities. It is clear that, in the absence of the leading truths
set forth in First Principles, organic matter would not have been

thus conceived.

There is also exemplified, before the close of the chapter,

the effect of bringing together the leading conceptions of

different sciences. Complete knowledge of one science is by

many urged as an educational ideal, rather than a general
knowledge of several. But in each science progress depends
on ideas which the other sciences furnish. Prof. Graham's

all-important investigations respecting the colloid and crystal-
loid forms of matter, well exemplified the need for transcending
the limits of pure chemistry for the further advance of chemis-
try. The contrasts he draws between colloids and crystalloids

between the instability of the one and the stability of the
other, between the consequent energia of the former and the

quiescence of the latter, have important implications of many

kinds, especially biological. But, not being guided by the
relevant biological ideas, there is a corollary which he did not
reach. Had he looked at the vital changes from the physio-

logical point of view, and observed that while the wasted

tissues are continually being rebuilt the waste-matters have
continually to be carried away ; he would have seen that it is
because the tissues are formed of colloids while the waste-

matters are crystalloids that the vital processes are possible.
From the small molecular mobility of the large colloid mole-

cules and the great molecular mobility of the small crystalloid
molecules, it results that these last can rapidly diffuse through
the first and escape into the channels which carry them out

of the body.

     Concerning interpretations contained in the immediately
following chapters, it will suffice to say that they are dominated

by the thought of interpreting vital activities in terms of latent

motion taken in and visible motion given out molecular motion
in food and molar motion expended through muscles. And
here came recognition of the part played by nitrogen. From
the feebleness of its affinities for other elements it results that,

easily liberated from its combinations with them, it becomes

a constant cause of molecular disturbance and vital motions.

This interpretation was suggested by remembrance of the
various cases in which nitrogenous substances, both inorganic

and organic, are made to serve artificially as agents initiating

changes explosions, fermentations, etc.    " The  Inductions  of
     The succeeding division of the work,
APP. B.]          The Filiation of Ideas                                           557

Biology," of course consists mainly of expositions of those
general truths currently accepted at the time the work was
written. Presentation of these in a relatively-coherent form

was the natural result of an endeavour to affiliate them on the

general principle of Evolution. In each chapter there are
indicated the relations borne to first principles by the truths
set forth. There may be noted, however, sundry special

inferences reached through the systematic mode of contem-
plating the facts. Everywhere arose the inquiry What are
the physical terms involved ? with the result that conclusions
true or untrue as it may turn out were set down which
would not have
     The chapter  been reached                h" afdurnniosthetshis   question been asked.
                   on " Growth                                       a good example, and

furnishes, too, another illustration of the way in which, to inter-

pret the truths of a special science the truths of more general

sciences have to be brought in aid. The amounts and limits of

growth exhibited by the different classes of organisms, plant
and animal, are inexplicable by one who limits himself to
biology alone. Mathematics and physics have to be invoked

certain relations between masses and surfaces, certain relations

between proportional sizes and proportional strains, certain

relations between the genesis of energy and the tenacity of the
parts which expend energy. And here let me exemplify the
way in which an interest in scientific inquiries at large, may
bring in, from a remote subject, the solutions of certain pro-
blems. Some time between the issue of the first edition in
1864 and the recent edition in 1898, I met with a report of
Mr. Froude's experiments made to determine the resistance to
vessels moving through the water. The surprising result was
that the chief resistance is not due to continued displace-
                u skin friction." When revising the
ment but  "toa   significant corollary hence resulted.               chapter on
" Growth
                                                                      It became

clear that by growth an aquatic animal gains in relative speed :
since the increase of energy going along with increase of mass
is not met by a proportionate increase of resistance : the skin-
friction increases at a slower rate than the increase of energy.
Hence great aquatic animals can come into existence. The
catching of more prey needful for larger growth would not be
possible in the absence of this relation between energy and

resistance.

The aid which one science furnishes towards solution of the

problems presented by another, is again exemplified in the
chapter on u Adaptation." The processes of modification con-

stituting adaptation of organic structures, are rendered quite

comprehensible by reference to the analogous social processes.
"GeTnheesis,c"ar"diHnearl ediditeya,"  which    runs through         the chapters                                                                                   on
                                         and  "Variation,"           as shown in                                                                                    66,
I

                                                                               is,

                                                                                                                                                                 ;
an example of reasoning a priori an exceptional example for,
as have shown, a posteriori conclusions have habitually pre-
558  Life of Herbert Spencer                                               [APP. B.

ceded the a priori verifications. The argument is that the
specific traits of organisms cannot be conveyed by the morpho-

logical units or cells, nor can they be conveyed by the molecules
of protein substances into which these are chemically resolv-
able : these being common to all organisms. There appears

therefore no alternative but to assume some intermediate units

conveying the specific characters physiological units as I
called them, or, as I would now call them, constitutional units.
That the structure of each organism results from the organic
polarities of these seems implied by the facts that a scale from

a Begonia leaf, or a fragment of a Polyp's body, begins to assume
the typical structure of the species ; and yet it seems incon-
ceivable that the complex structures of organisms of advanced
types can be thus produced. A more feasible conception was
suggested in the final edition of the work ; and here again
sociological facts aided interpretation of biological facts. For
evidence was given that beyond the tendency of a whole
aggregate of units of a particular kind to assume the structure
peculiar to that kind, whether a society or an animal, there is
an ability of the units in each locality to form themselves into
a structure appropriate to that locality, quite independently
of the influence of the whole aggregate. Recent experimental

evidence (1896-7)    here           came in verification.  the  first  to  be  named
      Passing over  minor
                                     ideas in Part III.,
that the process of natural selection becomes incapable of
is,
                                is
producing specific adaptations as fast as there arise complex
animals in which many organs co-operate to achieve single
end. The great Irish elk with its enormous horns instanced
                                                                       is is
                                                                                 a

                                                                                                          ;
and the argument                    that growth of such horns              useless for

offence and defence without an accompanying adjustment of
numerous bones and muscles concerned in wielding them that
                                                                               ;

appropriate variations cannot be assumed to take place simul-
taneously in all the co-operating parts and that without simul-
                                                     ;

taneous variations in them, increase in the size of the horns
must be injurious. After this, the thing of chief importance in
this division the interpretation of the two essential factors of
     is

                  I
organic evolution Adaptation and Natural Selection in phy-
sical terms. And here come upon fact which obliges me to
                                                     ;a

                                                                         ;
                                                                                                      ?

                                                                                    I
qualify the description of my method of thinking, namely,
allowing some germ of thought accidently occurring, to grow by
accretions until became fully- developed hypothesis.                                                     was
is
           a

                       a

                         it
                                   is

                                                  a
now met by problem which demanded solution. Adaptation
not process known to physical science and the hypothesis
of Natural Selection in both of its terms foreign to that class
of ideas which physics formulates. How, then, are adaptation
and natural selection to be conceived as caused by that universal
play of forces which universal evolution postulates                        At first

the interpretation seemed hopeless but when the life of an
organism was regarded as combination of functions forming
                                    a
APP. B.]                    The Filiation of Ideas                                                      559

a moving equilibrium in presence of outer actions, an inter-
pretation presented itself. All the phenomena fell into place as

attendant on the maintenance of moving equilibria and the
overthrow of them.               It       fiinttetshtu"s
expression " survival            of  was                  studying                          the facts   that the
                                     the                  emerged                           ; for this      as the
                                                          a
context shows, as direct                  :a  statement as ordinary language
                                                                I

                                                                                           is,
permits of the physical actions and reactions concerned. Here

again general truths served as interpreters of special ones.
Some months before completion of the first volume of the

Principles Biology, there occurred a digressionI                                              which had    im-
portant results. More than once after writingof                                             the " Genesis    of

Science," in which M. Comte's classification of the sciences was
rejected, had endeavoured to make valid classification, and
had failed. Only now, early in 1864, did hit upon the right

mode of regarding the facts recognizing that the primary basis
                                 a division into Abstract, Abstract- Concrete,
Of classification           1
a
                             is
and Concrete, dealing respectively with the forms, the factors,
and the products. The conclusions arrived at seemed important
enough to justify suspension of other work for the purpose of
publishing brochure setting them forth in detail. Incidentally
there came result of greater importance. While trying toa
arrange the concrete sciences, and asking what most generalis a
truth there which must take precedence of all those truths

presented by astronomy, geology, biology, etc., saw that
                                                                                            I

                                                                                                                  it

must be a truth concerning the unceasing redistribution of
matter and motion which all concrete things exhibit. This
truth was that integration of matter and dissipation of contained
motion are concomitant changes, and that the converse con-

comitant changes are increase of contained motion and dissipa-
tion of matter the first resulting in Evolution and the last in
Dissolution. In this way was suddenly made aware that ina
                                     ;
                         :
setting forth the process of Evolution in First Principles, hadI
                                               II                                                       I
                                                          ; of
                                                                                                                   a
followed wrong order since had represented the increase

of heterogenity as the primary process, and integration as
secondary process. Forthwith decided to reorganize First

Principles as soon as the Principles                                                      Biology was completed.
And here note the second case in which the writings of M.
          I

Comte had an all-important influence but, as in the preceding
case, an influence opposite in kind to that supposed. Had not
                                                                                                        I

made acquaintance with his views concerning the development
of the sciences had not been thus led to reject his classifica-
   ;

           I

                           ;

                I;
                          I
tion had not been, consequently, prompted to seek another

classification              should probably never have reached the above

conception, and the doctrine set forth in First Principles would
have retained that very imperfect form originally given to it.
     For completion of the
time was written an essay            naornrat"ivTeh, e                                    must add that about this
                                 1                                                        Constitution of the Sun,"

                                                      I

                                                                                       1
                                                                                         1
                                 [Supra, chap, x., p. 2.]
560  Life of Herbert Spencer                                  [APP. B.

containing, among other things, the hypothesis that solar spots
result from the condensation of metallic vapours in the rarefied
interiors of cyclones
was written an essay   ; and  must add that about the same       "timeI
                       under
                              the title " What is Electricity ?
name these merely to show the excursiveness still displayed. 1

     Returning to the Principles of Biology, the first remark to be
made is that the interpretation of the special by the aid of the

general, is shown throughout Vol. II. in a conspicuous manner ;

for in this there begins the deductive explanation of biological
phenomena at large in terms of the formula of Evolution.
"Morphological Development" sets out by regarding the

facts plants and animals display as primarily phenomena of
integration. There is growth by simple accumulation of primary

aggregates (cells or protoplasts) ; there is growth by union of
groups of these into secondary aggregates ; and then again by
union of groups of groups into tertiary aggregates. 'The rise of
the two largest divisions of the plant world is dealt with from
this point of view. From the needs of the interpretation there

resulted a speculation respecting the origin of Endogens and
Exogens (Monocotyledons and Dicotyledons). For in tracing
out the origin of plant aggregates of the third order, produced
by integration of those of the second order (each in its separate
form a thallus or frond), there arose the question By what
different methods of integration did there arise these two
different types of vegetal organization ? The interpretation im-
plies a rejection of Schleiden's doctrine, which regards the
shoot or axial organ as primary, and the leaf or foliar organ as
secondary ; for it implies that the foliar organ is the homologue
of a primitive separate frond or thallus, which of course came
first in order of evolution. I may add that though in most cases
the materials for my arguments were ready to hand in works on
Biology, it was in some cases otherwise ; and here is an instance.
Observations pursued for some years brought abundant support
to the inference that axial organs may, under conditions of ex-
cessive nutrition, develop out        foliar organs.  u The Morpholo-
gical Composition of Animals    o" f  was dealt with   in like manner.

Cells, aggregates of cells, and unions of these aggregates into
still higher ones, were the stages : the various types of Protozoa
falling within the first group, Pan/era and simple Coelenterates
coming within the second group, and the compound coelenterate
animals, fixed and moving, as well as Tunicata, coming within
the third group. How far this compounding of groups proceeds
in the animal kingdom was a question which arose. The con-
clusion drawn was that while the Vertebrata are aggregates of

the second order, annulose creatures (Arthropods and Annelids)
are aggregates of the third order : each segment being the

     1 [Suflra, chap, x., p. 117 ; chap, xxvi., pp. 427-31.]
APP. B.]           The Filiation of Ideas                                             561

homologue of what was originally an independent organism.
This speculation was, I supposed, peculiar to myself ; but I
recently found that it had two years earlier been propounded
by M. Lacaze Duthiers. There are many reasons for and against
     but true or untrue,
it,                                           manifestly sequence of the mode of
                          : it
                              is
                                                       a
regarding organic progress as exhibiting integration.
     In conformity with the general order of evolution, as set
forth in First Principles, there came next the production of

structural differences advance in integration being accom-
panied by advance in heterogenity. And here arose the occasion
for carrying out in new directions the speculation initiated in

1851, and subsequently set forth in "The Law of Organic
Symmetry." The general thesis that the parts of an organism
become unlike in form in proportion to their exposure to unlike
conditions, was illustrated throughout first in the shapes of
                                                          :
plants as wholes, then in the shapes of branches, then in the
                                                               a
shapes of leaves, then in the shapes of flowers, and finally in the
shapes of vegetal cells. There followed like series of inter-

pretations of animal forms general, and then more and more

special. In this exposition was incorporated that theory of
vertebrate structure indicated in 1858, as an alternative to the

theory of Professor Owen the theory, namely, that vertebrae
have arisen from the mechanical actions and reactions to which

the original undivided axis was exposed by lateral undulations                        is ;

these becoming as the vertebrate animal developed, more and

more energetic, at the same time that the axis became by its

reactions more and more indurated at the points of muscular

insertion segmentation being necessary compromise between
     :
flexibility and stability.;

                                 it ;In the next division, " Physiological Development," there

                                              is

                                             it a

                                                                 a
                                                                                   a
again shown the way in which the interpretations in general
and in detail are dominated by the general formula of Evolu-
tion more markedly shown, because, while Morphology had
been studied from the evolution point of view, Physiology had
been scarcely at all thus studied. As currently understood,
Physiology was concerned only with the single and combined
functions of organs, and scarcely at all considered the question
how functions have arisen. Thus new field had to be ex-

plored, and the exploration was guided by the conceptions set
forth in First Principles. The general question was "how
                                               have progressed along with hetero-
hgeetneeriotigeesneoitfiesstruocftuarecti"on   and was held that to the various
problems presented the                        " answers must be given in terms of

incident forces."
     Here the hypothesis of Evolution raised new set of ques-
            the raising of them almost                               of itself prompted the
tions, and  " Intercourse                                           part and the particular
             to which                         betweexepnoseedac"h
answers.                                                           was shown "to be the
conditions

     36
562  Life of Herbert Spencer  [APP. B.

origin of physiological development." Throughout successive
chapters, proof was given that physiological differentiations
afterhcxoetemiomlnesps"sliutfhhynoelmiukeotnhgeeeicnneienskoseianuvrsdiytabo"erle;xqpuaolaansnpdutsrieeteyvoido"ffewnthcateheseimftruhoranrcteoismthhhpeoeomdncoebhgnyaetnngetheopesuasrrtoserisdnutetlootr
in which the differences appear. It was contended, further,
that "physiological development has all along been aided by
the multiplication of effects" : the differentiated parts acting
and reacting on one another with increasing complexity. Then
came the inquiry How does there arise that mutual depen-
dence of parts which is the necessary concomitant of the
physiological division of labour ? Physiological integration
tawhcaecsomdip"ffaeWnrieehnsattiactpiaohunyses?sio"lothageicqaiunletesgtdiroianftfieortneontttihoaetaiodsnvo,aluntciaoenndpaotnfhewpahqsisucuehswtitoihtnhe
analogy between the individual organism and the social organ-
ism was once more brought in aid. Then, lastly, came to be
treated the phenomena of physiological equilibration, as it
establishes itself more and more completely in proportion as
organic evolution becomes higher : the result of the play of
organic forces being such as continually to re-establish a dis-
turbed balance between outer and inner actions, and to establish
a new balance where outer actions of a permanent kind arise.

     I indicate these chief heads of the argument simply to show
how the filiation of ideas was here determined by the need for
presenting the facts of physiological development in terms of
evolution at large. General truths again served as keys to the
more special truths, and caused these to fall into coherent

order.

     Something must be said respecting an inquiry which arose
while writing this division. The genesis of the circulation in
plants was one of the topics to be dealt with ; and I found very
little information ready to my hand. Either I must treat the
topic in a cursory manner or must investigate it for myself, and
this last alternative I chose. In pursuance of the idea dominant
throughout, that the differentiations of parts are due to differ-
ences in the incident forces, I inferred that, initiated by slight
differences of pressure in certain directions, the produced
currents themselves gradually formed channels and so prepared
the way for the differentiated structures. The current doctrine
was that circulation is through the wood ; but there seemed
to have been ignored the question What happens in plants
having no woody tissue, and in those young plants and young
parts of plants in which woody tissue has not yet been formed ?
Examination proved that in such places the spiral, fenestrated,
or annular vessels are the sap-carriers, and that these fall out of
use. as fast as the woody tissue arises. The investigation led to
the discovery of absorbent organs in certain leaves and roots,
A PP. B.]      The Filiation oj Ideas               563

which had not been seen because the sections of the leaves had

not been made in such a manner as to disclose them. By com-
pulsion I was in this case led into experimental research ; and
I do not remember any other case in which an experimental
research was undertaken. 1

     The remaining part of the Principles of Biology, entitled
u Laws of Multiplication," need not detain us. It is an
                                               hypothesis which
amplified and   elaborated   statement of the  of Population de-
was set forth  pretty fully  in " The Theory
duced from the General Law of Animal Fertility," published
in 1852. In this Part VI. of. the Biology many additional illus-

trations, sundry developments, and various qualifications, are
set forth. These supplementary ideas it is needless here to

specify.

     I am often astonished at the large results which grow from
small causes. When drawing up the programme of the
u System of Philosophy," as it was at first called, and laying
out the plan of each work, it occurred to me that, before
beginning deductive interpretations in pursuance of the doctrine
of Evolution, it would be needful to set down the truths which
had been, or which might be, reached by simple induction.
And then it occurred to me that, before this statement of induc-
tions, it would be needful in each case to specify the data.
This conception determined in large part the arrangement
followed. In each science the first and second divisions set
forth respectively the data and the inductions, on which the
evolutionary interpretations might stand.

     This method of procedure had the effect of drawing my

attention to truths, some already current and some not current,
which would have been passed over unspecified or unrecog-
nized, had it not been for the necessity of filling up these divi-
sions of the skeleton plan. Especially was this cause influential
in giving to the Principles of Psychology an extended develop-

ment. What wrere the data ? What were the inductions ?
were questions to be answered ; and search for answers led to

some significant results.

     The science of Life at large had to supply the data to the
science of Mental Life. Setting out from the biological view,
it was needful to regard the nervous system as the initiator of

motion, and to trace up its development in relation to the

quantity of the motion and the heterogeneity of the motion.

It was also needful to formulate such truths of structure as are

common to all types of nervous systems. Beginning with the
simplest structure, in which there is seen nothing more than an

afferent nerve, a ganglion, and an efferent nerve, it was con-
tended that the nervous arc formed by the fibre carrying a

               1 \_Supra, chap, x., pp. 123, 124.]
564  Life of Herbert Spencer  [APP. B.

stimulus, the ganglion corpuscles to which it went, and the
fibre running to a part to be excited, constituted the unit of
composition out of which nervous systems are built a unit of
composition with which, in developing types, there is joined
a fibre passing from the primary simple ganglion to a higher
and more complex one. The thesis was that, throughout their
extremely varied types, nervous systems are formed by com-
pounding and re-compounding this unit in multitudinous ways.

     Not particularizing others of the Data set down, and passing
at once to the Inductions, the first to be named concerns the
substance of mind. After showing that of this in its ultimate
nature we can know nothing, it was contended that of its proxi-
mate nature we may know something. Setting out from our
knowledge of the sensation of sound, which is made up of
minute nervous shocks rapidly recurring, there was ventured
the hypothesis that sensations of all kinds, and by implication
higher feelings of all kinds, result from the compounding and
re-compounding in infinitely varied ways of minute nervous
shocks, akin in their ultimate natures. 1 So that possibly there is
an ultimate element of mind which, like some ultimate element

of matter, is, by entering into more and more complex aggre-
gates and unions of aggregates, capable of generating the
multitudinous kinds of consciousness, as the supposed ultimate
element of matter, by its endless ways and degrees of compound-
ing, produces the various substances we know. There is thus
hypothetically illustrated in another sphere the general doctrine
of Evolution, since the supposed process implies increasing

integration and increasing heterogeneity.
     The question next to be dealt with was What are the

general truths respecting our mental states which admit of being
set down as simple inductions, based upon introspection, and
not involving any hypothesis respecting origin. Writers on
Psychology have mostly had in view not structural traits but
functional traits. We see this in the grouping by Aquinas into
Memory, Reason, Conscience ; by Reid into Memory, Concep-
tion, Judgment, Reasoning ; by Dugald Stewart into Attention,
Conception, Abstraction, Memory, Imagination, Reasoning.
These various heads in the main connote kinds and degrees
of action. It seemed to me that the first thing must be to
contemplate the aggregate of mental states, and group them
according to their characters and behaviours. Examination
proved that there are marked structural distinctions in con-
sciousness, and that these are related to structural distinctions
in the nervous system. The broadest classification is into feel-
ings and relations between feelings, of which the first are mental

    'The instalment of the Principles of Psychology containing this view
was issued in Oct., 1868. M. Taine, in Vol. I. of De flntelligence

propounded a like view in 1870.
APP. B.]         The Filiation of Ideas                             565

states existing for appreciable times, while the last exist but
momentarily ; and it was inferred that while the feelings are
correlated with changes in the nerve-cells, the relations are
correlated with discharges along nerve-fibres. Examination
proved that feelings themselves are first of all divisible into
centrally-initiated or emotions, and peripherally-initiated or
sensations. Among the peripherally-initiated, the broadest
division is into those initiated on the outer surface and those

initiated in the interior ; and it was of course recognized that
all these kinds have their vivid or original forms and their
faint or revived forms. These groups of feelings differ greatly
in definiteness that is, in the distinctness with which they are
mutually limited : the feelings derived from the highest senses
being mutually limited in the sharpest way, and the mutual
limitation becoming vague in proportion as the feelings are
internally generated, and have not sense-organs divided into
numerous sensitive elements. Sharpness of mutual limitation
was discovered to be connected with ability to cohere readi-
ness to be associated : where there is vague mutual limitation

there is incoherence. Another result reached was that feelings
which are definitely limited by others and which, as a concom-
itant, readily cohere, are also feelings which can be called into
consciousness with facility ; while feelings of the lower kinds,
as those initiated internally, can be revived with difficulty and,
consequently, take but small parts in intellectual operations.
Once more it was found that these truths which hold of feelings
hold also of the relations among them. Here as elsewhere it
\vas found that progress in mental organization, as in nervous
organization, is presentable in terms of Evolution ; for in rising
to the higher types of mental states characterized by definite-

ness, coherence, and revivability, we progress in integration and

heterogeneity.   the  parts  entitled  u General Synthesis " and
     Concerning

11 Special Synthesis," it is unnecessary to say much here, since
they repeat with small alterations, mainly verbal, the correspond-
                                  sTahyiengonthlyatsig"niHfiacadnt
ing  parts in the first edition.                                       fact is that
to                                                                  Mr. Darwin's
     189 I have added a note
Origin of Species been published before I wrote this paragraph, I
should, no doubt, have so qualified my words as to recognize
4 selection,' natural or artifical, as a factor." At the time the
first edition was written the only factor I recognized was the
inheritance of functionally-produced changes ; but Mr. Darwin's
work made it clear to me that there is another factor of import-
ance in mental evolution as in bodily evolution. While holding
that throughout all higher stages of mental development the
supreme factor has been the effect of habit, I believe that in

producing the lowest instincts natural selection has been the
chief, if not the sole, factor. This modification of belief, how-

ever, affects but slightly the argument running through these

two parts.
566                Life of Herbert Spencer       [APP. B.

     Part V. is the one referred to in the preface to the first
edition as, for the time being, omitted. It sets forth and

elaborates the idea, reached some time before the programme
of the Synthetic Philosophy was drawn up, that the structures

of nervous systems are to be interpreted as consequent upon
the general law that motion follows the line of least resistance.

The first chapter describes the genesis of nerves in pursuance
of this hypothesis, and subsequent chapters carry it out in the
description of simple and compound nervous systems.

    Concerning the filiation of ideas exemplified in Parts VI.
and VII. of the Principles of Psychology, there is not much to say

here. The first of them reappears with no considerable change ;

and the second of them, though greatly developed, is chiefly an
elaboration of the argument set forth in Part I. of the first

edition an elaboration which, though it contains many ideas
                                                 not call for detailed notice.
not  contained in  t"hCeofriorsllta, rdieose,s"  there is yielded another excep-

     In Part IX.,
tion to what I supposed to be the uniform process with me
gradual development of a thought from a germ ; for here I had
forthwith to solve the questions put before me as best I might.
After dealing with general psychology it became requisite to
enter upon the special psychology of Man in preparation for
Sociology. Certain traits of human nature are presupposed

by the ability to live in the associated state, and there came
the questions What are these ? and, How are they evolved ?
One only of the leading ideas in this part need here be named
as illustrating the course of filiation. Before there can be
social co-operation there must be established in Men a liking,
such as we see in gregarious animals, for living more or less
in presence of one another. And there must be developed in
him, as in gregarious creatures, but in a far higher degree, the
faculty of sympathy the aptitude for participating in the
feelings exhibited by others. Development of the required
type of emotional nature was shown to be a part of the
general process of mental evolution. The discipline of social
life, beginning in feeble ways, itself little by little developed the
capacities for carrying on social co-operation : there was gradual

evolution here as everywhere else.

    The filiation of ideas as exhibited in the Principles of
Sociology, cannot be understood without knowledge of certain
acts and incidents which occurred while the work on the Prin-

ciples of Psychology was in course of execution. Recognizing
how large an undertaking the Principles of Sociology would be,
how vast the required assemblage of materials, and how im-
possible it would be for me to gather them, I decided as far
back as 1867 to obtain help. I had to study the leading types
of societies, from the savage to the most civilized ; and I
required something like a comprehensive account of the institu-
APP. B.]           The Filiation of Ideas                                        567

tions of each. The only course was that of engaging one or
more assistants who should, under guidance, collect facts for
me. My first step was to scheme an arrangement in which
they should be so presented that while their relations of co-
existence and succession were easily recognized, they should
be so presented that those of each kind could be readily found
when required. In the tables drawn up the primary division
of social phenomena is into Structural and Functional, and the
main divisions under these are Regulative and Operative. A
glance will show that ranged under these main and subordinate
groups, the heterogenous masses of facts societies exhibit, dis-
orderly as they at first seem, are made intelligible, and the
comparing and generalizing of them easy. Sundry modifica-
tions of beliefs at once resulted from thus facilitating in-

duction.

    The work on The Study of Sociology formed no part of the
programme of the Synthetic Philosophy. 1 But, rather fortun-
ately, it was written before the Principles of Sociology was com-
menced ; and, while serving to prepare the public, was also
a good discipline for me. The cultured classes and their
                   Froude,
leaders Carlyle,      They  Kingsley, etc. were in utter                         "dasrckiennecses
about the matter.           alleged the impossibility of a

of history," and were without any conception that there had
been going on the evolution of social structures, not made or
                            astaStoescmiael nS, coiernrceeco?gn" izaendd
dreamed of by  kings and                                                         by historians.
               u Is there                                                        u The Nature
Two chapters
of the Social Science," explained that there is a distinction
between history and the science of sociology like that between

a man's biography and the structure of his body.
Evidence was given at this time of continued natural growth
from a germ dating far back. In the comparison between a

society and an organism, made in Social Statics, where the

mutual dependence of parts common to both and the progress
in both from a primitive state of no dependence to a state of
great dependence, were pointed out, there was no recognition
of any fundamental division in the classes of parts or classes of

functions. But "The Social Organism," published ten years

later, exhibited the analogy between the expending organs of
the two and between the sustaining organs of the two. And
                                                                                     In an essay on
n" oSwpetchiaislizceodnceAptdiomninihsatrdatbioencom" epumbolirseheddefininite.
                                                                                 December, 1871,
it was shown that the militant structures and the industrial
structures, while growing more distinguished as expending
structures and sustaining structures, grow more distinguished

also by the different forms of government proper to them : the
one being under a despotic central control needful to produce

                   1 \Supra, chap, xiii., p. 159.]
568                Lije of Herbert Spencer                      [AFP. B.

efficient joint action, and the other being controlled by the

mutual influences of the co-operating parts and not, in respect of
their functions, .subject to central direction. At the same time
it was shown that individual organisms of high types furnish a

parallel to this contrast in the contrast between the cerebro-
spinal nervous system and the visceral nervous system. And
here, more than before, was emphasized the truth that from
the beginning war has been the cause of the development of
centralized governmental structures, which become coercive in
proportion as war is the dominant social activity ; while growth
of that decentralized co-operation characterizing sustaining
structures, becomes more marked as war ceases to be chronic :

a corollary being that social types are essentially distinguished
by the proportion between the militant structures and the
industrial structures, and undergo metamorphoses according to
the growth or decline of either order of activity.

    One more essay, published in 1870, on "The Origin of
Animal- Worship," must be named as containing another idea

destined to undergo much development in the Principles of
Sociology, the first instalment of which was issued in June, 1874.
In the third paragraph (Essays, i. 309) it is said that u The rudi-
mentary form of all religion is the propitiation of dead ancestors,
who are                            still existing, and
working  supposed to be             their descendants   t"o     be capable of
prepare                                                      ;  J and that to
         fogroo"d    or evil   to                                past, directed
                   sociology,      have, for some years
                                I

much attention to the modes of thought current in the simpler
human societies." 2

     Growing complexity of subject-matter implies growing com-
plexity of causation ; and with recognition of additional factors
comes proof of the inadequacy of factors previously recognized.
This is manifest when tracing the filiation of ideas throughout
the Principles of Sociology. The modifications resulted from
evidence contained in the Descriptive Sociology and added to
from various other sources. Simple induction now played a

leading part.
     Already in Social Statics there were recognitions of the truth

that the fitnesses of institutions are relative to the natures of
citizens. More definitely the Study of Sociology again displayed

      1 After the publication of the first volume of the Principles of
Sociology, a controversy arose between Mr. (now Prof.) E. B. Tylor and
myself concerning our respective views. Though his view, as set forth
before 1870, was that animism is primary and the ghost-theory secondary,
while my view was that the ghost-theory is primary and animism second-
ary, yet he had the impression that I had derived my view from him.
In the course of the controversy, when referring back to things I had
written, I overlooked these sentences just quoted, which (setting aside
any difference of view between us) conclusively dispose of his supposition.

    2 [Supra, chaps, xii., p. 148; xiv., p. 190 xxvii., p. 451.]
APP. B.]            The Filiation of Ideas                                       569

this conviction. In youth my constitutional repugnance to

coercion, and consequent hatred of despotic forms of rule, had
involved a belief like that expressed in the American Declara-
tion of Independence, and like that which swayed the French
at the time of the Revolution the belief that free forms of
government would ensure social welfare. A concomitant was

a great abhorrence of slavery, and a conviction that it has

always been an unmitigated evil. Ecclesiasticism, too, excited
in me profound aversion. Along with this went an unhesitating
assumption that all superstitions are as mischievous as they are
erroneous. These and allied pre-judgments were destroyed or
greatly modified by contemplation of the facts. So that many
ideas now set forth were not affiliated upon preceding ones, but

generated de novo : some independent of, and some at variance
with, preceding ones.
     As in the works on Biology and on Psychology, fulfilment
of the original programme, which in each case set out with
Data and Inductions, was largely influential in producing
certain of these changes. Especially did search for the data
compel attention to those traits of human beings which are
factors in social co-operation. Throughout many chapters the
affiliation of every kind of superstition upon the universal belief
in the doubles of the dead, was traced ; and it became manifest
that all religious ceremonies originate from endeavours to please
or pacify the ghost. The multitudinous facts showing this
conspired also to show that belief in the continued, or rather
the increased, power of the dead ruler came to supplement the
power of the living ruler ; so that strengthening of natural
control by supposed supernatural control became a means of
maintaining social unions which could not else have been
maintained. This was an all-important idea not affiliated upon
preceding ideas. Nor could there be affiliated on preceding
ideas the convictions produced by the logic of facts, that king-
ship and slavery are institutions naturally arising in the course
of social evolution, and necessary to be passed through on the
way to higher social forms. So, too, it had to be reluctantly

admitted that war, everywhere and always hateful, has never-
theless been a factor in civilization, by bringing about the
consolidation of groups simple into compound, doubly-com-
pound, and trebly-compound until great nations are formed.

As,   throughout    the organic  owf oNraldtu, ree,vo"lurteiodn  in  has been    acclhaiweve"d  ;
by   the merciless   discipline                                       tooth and

so, in the social world, a discipline scarcely less bloody has
been the agency by which societies have been massed together
and social structures developed : an admission which may go
along with the belief that there is coming a stage in which
survival of the fittest among societies, hitherto effected by
sanguinary conflicts, will be effected by peaceful conflicts.

    To these indications of the re-moulded conceptions per-
       570           Life of Herbert Spencer                                       [APP. B.

vading the Principles of Sociology, have now to be added the
ideas characterizing the successive parts.

    In "The Inductions of Sociology," the analogy between
       social organisms and individual organisms was elaborated :
       various minor ideas being brought to enforce the general idea.
       Here, as before, the assigned warrant for the comparison is the

incontestable truth that in both there is co-operation of parts
with consequent mutual dependence of parts ; and that by these
the life of the whole, individual or social, is constituted and

maintained. Among further developments of the conception
the first was a perception of the fact that whereas in individual
organisms the co-operation is among parts which are in physical
contact, in societies the co-operation is among parts which are
in various degrees separated. At the same time it is shown that

the co-operation, effected in living bodies by molecular waves

                      through the                                         in societies, effected by
                     feelings and                                      conveyed from person to
p" rosipgangsateodf  ;A            tissues,
                                   thoughts
                                                                    is,
                                                                    is   named. Whereas the
person."             concomitant difference

animal organism has one sentient centre, for the benefit of
which, in superior types, all other component parts exist, in

the social organism there are as many sentient centres as there

are persons and, consequently, the units can no longer be
regarded as existing for the benefit of the aggregate. Recog-
nition of this essential difference explains the apparent anomaly
that while societies highly organized for corporate action, and

in that respect analogous to superior types of animals, are to

       be regarded as the highest so long as militancy                   great, and the
                                               a
                                                                  is

                                                                             is
                                                                                 is

                                                                                                                                        ;
preservation of the society as whole                                     the dominant end

under peaceful conditions, when corporate action                                   no longer
       needed for offence and defence, the highest types of society
are those in which the coercive governmental organization has
dwindled, and corporate action, with its correlative structures,
gives place to individual action, having directive structures of
                                   kind.
       relatively non-coercive     in Part
a        The ideas contained       is          III.,                   " Domestic  Institutions,"
     a1
                                            1
mostly show little evidence of descent from preceding ideas.
The first significant one                                                chapter on u The
                                             contained in                a
                                                                              ; is
              Some fifty years ago M. Milne-Edwards pointed out the analogya
       between the division of labour in society and the physiological division                 I
       of labour in an animal, and regarded the growing complexity of structure

       as concomitant in the one case as in the other. If any one had there-

       after asserted that he based the science of Biology on the science of
       Sociology, the assertion would have been regarded as extremely absurd.
       But the absurdity would have been no greater than that fallen into by
       some American sociologists Prof. Giddings and Mr. Lester Ward among
       them who assert that base Sociology upon Biology because have
       exhibited this same analogy under its converse aspect and who continue
       to do this though have pointed out that the analogy does not in either
                     I
                              I
APP. B.]        The Filiation of Ideas                                                      571

sDpivreinrsge"  Interests of  the Species,  the Parents, and the Off-
                ; in which    it is shown   that along with a certain

community of interest there go certain antagonisms. In low
types the sacrifices of individual life and well-being to the

maintenance of the species, are great ; and the sacrifices of

parents to offspring and of offspring from inefficiency of
parents, are also great ; but as evolution progresses, all such
sacrifices gradually become less. The next conclusion sug-

gested by the evidence is that the sexual relations which arise,

are, in a measure, appropriate to the respective social stages
reached : polygamy having a natural relation to a chronic
warfare which entails much male mortality. A further con-
clusion which the facts establish is that the stains of women
is low in proportion as militancy is high, and gradually im-
proves (as does that of children also) in proportion as indus-
trialism develops. Of chief importance, however, is the doctrine
that a radical distinction must be maintained between the ethics
of family life and the ethics of social life. The ethics of family
life, as concerning offspring, are that benefits received must be

great in proportion as merit is small ; whereas, on passing into
social life, the individual must become subject to the law that
benefits shall be proportioned to merits. And it is contended

that the effects are immediately fatal in the first case and
remotely fatal in the last if a converse regime is in force.
The next division exemplifies not the filiation of ideas but

the entire overturn of an earlier idea by a later. Dominant as
political government is in the thoughts of all, it is naturally
assumed to be the primary form of government ; and this had
been assumed by me, as by everybody. But the facts which the
Descriptive Sociologv put before me, proved that of the several
kinds of control exercised over men the ceremonial control is

the first. After recognition of this unexpected priority, the
cardinal truth recognized was that ceremonies at large originate

in the relation between conqueror and conquered : beginning
with mutilations and trophies, and running out into all forms

of propitiatory actions and speeches obeisances, modes of
address, presents, visits, titles, badges and costumes, etc. The

case furnish a foundation, but merely yields mutual illumination. (See
Essays, vol. ii., p. 467 et seg.) Those not biassed by the desire to make
their own views appear unlike views previously enunciated, will see that
if Sociology was by me based on Biology, biological interpretations
would be manifest in all parts of the Principles of Sociology succeeding
the part in which the above analogy is  IsIeIt.,foIrVth.,.  V.B, uVtI.t,heVyIIa.r,e   not.  VITIhI.e,
interpretations running through Parts                                                and

                is
                                                                                                      in

                                                                                                             it,
though they are congruous with this analogy, are not guided by but
have quite other guidance. They are based on the general law of Evolu-
tion, which from time to time referred to as illustrated the particular
group of phenomena under consideration.
572  Life of Herbert Spencer  [APP. B.

development of these exhibits very clearly the evolution from
a simple germ to a complex aggregate, characterized by increas-

ing heterogeneity and definiteness. A guiding truth finally
emphasized was, that not only does ceremony begin with the

behaviour of the conquered man to the conqueror, but that
throughout all its developments it maintains its relation to
militancy ; being peremptory and definite in proportion as
militancy is great, and diminishing in its authority and precision

as industrialism qualifies militancy. This connexion, is one
aspect of the truth that militancy implies the principle of
status, which involves ceremonial observances, while indus-

trialism, implying contract, does not involve ceremonial ob-

servances.
      After premising that political institutions must be regarded

as relative to the circumstances and natures of the peoples
living under them, there is drawn a fundamental contrast
between the two kinds of co-operation which societies exhibit.
There is conscious co-operation in the actions of a society as
a whole against other societies, and unconscious co-operation
in the actions of citizens severally satisfying their own wants
by subserving the wants of others, but who do this without
concert : no arrangement for undertaking different kinds of
production having been made or even thought of. Efforts for
self-preservation by the aggregate originate the first form of
organization ; while efforts for self-preservation by the units
originate the last form of organization ; the first being coercive
and the last non-coercive. Here, while setting down these

leading truths, there is disclosed to me one which I had not
observed one which, like so many, others, is seen in the
analogy between individual organization and social organization.
For the contrast between the conscious co-operation of the
structures which carry on the external actions of a society, and
the unconscious co-operation of the industrial structures which

carry on sustentation, is paralleled by the contrast between the
conscious co-operation of the senses, limbs, and cerebro-spinal

nervous system of a vertebrate animal, and the unconscious

co-operation of its visceral organs and the nervous system of
organic life which controls them.

     The general truth referred to before, and again implied in
the statements just made, is that political organization is
initiated by war and develops with the continuance of war.
The primitive chief is the leading warrior. During long stages
the military chief and the civil chief are the same, and even
in the later stages in which the king becomes mainly the civil
chief, he remains nominally the military chief. By implication
the political organization is at first identical with the army
organization. Chiefs and sub-chiefs, kings and feudal lords,
are in peace central and local rulers ; and the civil discipline
among them and their subordinates is simply the military
APP. B.]                        The Filiation of Ideas     573

discipline : the servile or non-fighting portion of the population

being the commissariat.
     One final truth an all-important truth has to be named

and emphasized. This is that the fighting structures and the
industrial structures, though in a sense co-operative, are in

another sense antagonistic ; and that the type of the society is
determined by the predominance of the one or the other. The
militant type, in proportion as it is pronounced, entails com-

pulsory co-operation, the regime of status, and the entire subjec-
tion of the individual ; while the industrial type is characterized
by voluntary co-operation, the regime of contract, and the inde-
pendence of the individual : all the habits, sentiments, and ideas
which
     In  prevail being          in either case accompaniments of the type.
                                shown that just as political institutions are
         Part VII. it is
initiated by the emergence of a leading warrior who, first chief
in war, presently becomes chief iii peace ; so ecclesiastical
institutions have their beginning in the emergence of a special
ancestor-worship from the pervading ancestor-worship carried
on by all families. The propitiation of the deceased chief rises
into predominance ; the son who rules in his place, and succeed-
ing rulers, being the primitive priests. Thus arising, the cults
of heroes, conquerors, kings, generate a polytheism with its

various priesthoods ; and, by implication, a developed ecclesi-
astical system arises when victories produce composite societies
and supreme rulers. Thus differentiated from political institu-

tions, ecclesiastical institutions are partly co-operative and partly
competitive : co-operative in so far that they join in enforcing
the laws derived from the past, and competitive in so far that
there grows up a struggle for supremacy : the ecclesiastical

power, in virtue of its assumed divine authority, often becoming

predominant. Differentiating as the ecclesiastical structure thus
does from the political structure, it long participates in political
functions. Its priests take part in war, and act as judges and
local rulers during peace. But the differentiation becomes
almost complete as social evolution progresses. And while
ecclesiastical structures separate from political structures, there
is shown within them progressing integration and progressing

heterogeneity.
The futility of historical studies as ordinarily pursued, in-
                                 is again shown on
odfica"tePdrofeaslrseiaodnya,l  Institutions." Even  turning to the evolution
                                                     before the collection and

classification of the facts presented by inferior societies had

gone far enough to make possible a complete tabulation, it
became manifest that all the professions are differentiated from
the priesthood. But so little recognized was this truth that the
tabular representation, implying derivation of the one from the

other, created surprise among highly educated critics.     " Indus-
     Some significant evolutionary facts are exhibited in
trial Institutions." The division of labour displays unfamiliar
574             Life of Herbert Spencer                                        [APP. B.

features when developmentally considered. Out of the primitive
homogeneous stage there arise by degrees the three distinguish-
able processes, Production, Distribution, and Exchange ; and
it is pointed out that in each of these divisions there arises

a secondary division into the essential and the auxiliary the
actual processes and the aiding processes. The increasing

interdependence of all these processes is shown to constitute
an industrial integration. On passing from the division of
labour to the regulation of labour, we come upon the truth,
inferable a priori and established a posteriori, that the regulation
of labour has -a common origin with political regulation, and
gradually differentiates from it. The first stage succeeding that
in which each male member of a tribe, while warrior and

hunter, makes for himself all such things as women cannot

make, is the stage in which conquered men are made slaves ;
and the directive power exercised over the slave                               like the
                                                    is
                                                                       is,

                                                                                                             ;
political directive power, purely coercive. Social life and
domestic life alike exhibit the relation of ruler and subject
                                                    also the form of
since this form of regulation for slaves
regulation for children. As the paternal passes into the patri-
archal, the control of industry continues to be similar in nature to
governmental control. The like holds in large measure when

communes arise and though under gild-regulation there in-
dependent industrial action,;                                                  is
                                                 subject to the coercive, quasi-     a is :
political action of the gild. Only by degrees does the industrialis
regulation, based on contract, separate itself from the original
form of industrial regulation, based on status the law of evolu-of
tion again illustrated. Passing over corollaries, will sufficea is
a                                  is it            :
         is is                            is is
                                                             it
                                                                            r

to name the generalization finally reached, that the essential
differences in industrial regulation, as in political regulation, are
implied by the question To what extent does man own him-
                                                    a

self, and to what extent      he owned by others? In actively
militant states, like Sparta, he the slave of the society, com-
pelled to devote his activities and his life to its preservation

each owned by the rest. But as fast as industrialism qualifies
militancy, he acquires increasing possession of himself until, in
                                                       ;

society like our own, he coerced scarcely more than
implied by paying taxes and, possibly, in case of war, going as
conscript. Still, however, he remains in considerable measure
subject to the coercion of his industrial combinations gilds or
trade-unions. He but partially master of himself, since he
can use his abilities for self-maintenance only under such condi-
tions as they prescribe. Complete possession of himself can be
had by each citizen only in perfectly peaceful state, and in the
absence of all restraints on his power to make contracts.

     In  the Principles   Ethics, the title         of the second chapter
" The    Evolution of Conduct," implies             point of view differing
                                                 a

widely from the ordinary point of view. The idea that Ethics
APR B.]               The Filiation of Ideas                                                                    575

is to be conceived as a certain aspect of evolving conduct, was

utterly alien to current ethical ideas, at the same time that it
was congruous with the ideas contained in the preceding works.
The tap-root of the system goes back to Social Statics, in which
some root-fibres went into Biology, Psychology, and, largely, into
VaSsoieciwiso,ls"ohgoy"w. TnhbeTyhetBhsieoelotfigtibliecrseaslofhVasiduecwnc,eo"swsiv"deeTvhceheloappePtedsryscinhtoo"loTbghriacenacl PhhVyrieoswoict,as",l
'' The Sociological View." Ethics was thus conceived as

treating of conduct in relation to physical activities, vital
processes, and mental functions, as well as in relation to the

wants and actions of surrounding men. Hence not only duty

to others, but also duty to self, had to be recognized and

emphasized.

    After these and other Data came the question What are
the Inductions ? Under this head had to be ranged the various
kinds of conduct, and the various ideas of right and wrong,
found in human societies of all kinds and in all stages of
progress. The first general conclusion drawn from this Com-
parative Ethics was that there
                                         in each case, an adaptation
                                         is,

                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                                 a
between the ideas of right and wrong and the kind of life which
inherited nature and environing conditions produce and the
second conclusion was that there exists no such thing as
moral sense common to all mankind, but that the moral sense in

eachPasrotcieIItIy.,  and in each stage, adjusts itself to the conditions.

                      dealing with "The Ethics of Individual Life,"

recognized, in pursuance of the general conception, the moral
sanction of all those individual activities implied in the healthful

and pleasurable pursuit of personal ends, bodily and mental.
The conclusions drawn, though checked by Biology and Psycho-
log}', were in the main empirical for there are no adequate
data on which to base a definite code of private conduct.;
                                                                                    ;

                                                                       is a
                                                                                                             ;
Personal nature must largely determine the special activities
and special limits to them, though vital laws must regulate
these. But there named, though not adequately emphasized,
a

                        :

                               is
   general consideration furnishing much guidence namely, that

to achieve the fullest life and greatest happiness, due pro-
portion must be maintained among the activities of the various

faculties excess in one and deficiency in another being, by
implication, negatived. Doubtless, in our social life the sub-
division of occupations necessitates great disproportion but

consciousness of the normal proportion serves to restrain.
     In u The Ethics of Social Life Justice," there at length
  return to the                    with  which the whole series of my writings
acommenced.           tIonpic"     The   proper Sphere of Government," and

then in Social Statics, endeavours were made to reach definite

ideas concerning the just regulation of private conduct and the
just relations of individuals to the social aggregate, represented
by its government. And now, after all the explorations made
576                 Life of Herbert Spencer                 [APP. B.

in an interval of forty years, this topic came up once more to
be dealt with in the light of the results which had then been
reached. No essential changes of the views set forth in Social

Statics proved needful ; but there came to be recognized a
deeper origin -for its fundamental principle. The assertion of the
liberty of each limited only by the like liberties of all, was shown

to imply the doctrine that each ought to receive the benefits and
bear the evils entailed by his actions, carried on within these
limits ; and Biology had shown that this principle follows from
the ultimate truth that each creature must thrive or dwindle,
live or die, according as it fulfils well or ill the conditions of its

existence a principle which, in the case of social beings,
implies that the activities of each must be kept within the
bounds imposed by the like activities of others. So that, while
among inferior creatures survival of the fittest is the outcome of
aggressive competition, among men as socially combined it must

be the outcome of non-aggressive competition : maintenance of
the implied limits, and insurance of the benefits gained within
the limits, being what we call justice. And thus, this ultimate

principle of social conduct was affiliated upon the general

proc"esNsegoaftivoergabneincefiecevnocluetio"n.was recognized as a needful supple-

ment to Justice. While society in its corporate capacity is
bound to enforce Justice to the uttermost, there falls on each
individual, acting independently, the obligation to refrain from
doing some things which the law of equal freedom warrants
him in doing. This special obligation follows from the general
obligation of each to discharge his debt to the society which
has fostered him : doing this by aiding in its improvement by
cultivating a sympathy such as will not tolerate the taking of
every advantage strict justice accords. But it was held that

this qualification of the dictates of justice by those of negative
              must  be left
beneficence  final  division  to"  the private judgment of  each.
                                   Positive Beneficence,"    not passive
     In the                                               altruism. In the chapter on

a"ltTruhiesmEvwoalustioennjoionfedC, onbdutucatc,"tiveit  was shown that the highest

life, and consequently the highest happiness, can be reached only
when "all the
                emnedms b"e;rsando,f   a society give     mutual help in the
achievement of                        by implication,     can be reached only
when they give mutual help in the avoidance of evils. In this
final division it was contended that, while there is an indirect

obligation on each to maintain and improve that social state
which gives him the facilities of living he enjoys, he gains by
cultivating the feelings which cause fulfilment of this obliga-
tion ; since the sympathy which prompts alleviation of others'
pains is the same sympathy which makes possible the partici-

pation in others' pleasures, and therefore exalts personal

happiness.

March, 1899.
                                        577

                   APPENDIX C.
LIST OF HERBERT SPENCER'S WRITINGS.

                       THE SYNTHETIC PHILOSOPHY.

First Principles. First edition, 1862 ; second edition, 1867 ;
       third edition, 1875 ; fourth edition, 1880 ; fifth edition,
       1884 ; sixth edition, and finally revised, 1900. Reprinted
      with an additional appendix and a new index, 1904.
Principles of Biology. Vol.
       and enlarged edition, vol.       1864 vol. ii., 186y                                                           revised
                                          1898 vol. ii., 1899.
                                        i.,                                                  ;;
                                           i.,                                                   ;

                                                              ;                                                        ;
                                                                   ;

Principles  of i., of  Psychology. First edition, 1855 second edition,
                                                                                          ;

vol. 1870 vol. ii., 1872 third edition, 1880 fourth
                       ;                i., ;
edition, 1899.           ;
                               ;
Principles             Sociology. Vol.         first edition, 1876                                                    second

edition, 1877 third and enlarged edition, 1885. Vol. ii.,
Part IV., 1879 Part V. 1882. Vol. iii., Part VI., 1885

Parts VII. and VIII., 1896.
                       Ethics. Vol.     Part   1879 Parts II. and III.,
Principles  of                       i.,

                                                         ;

                                                  I.,

                                                                                   ;
1892. Vol. ii., Part IV., 1891 Parts V. and VI., 1893.

                                  OTHER WORKS.

Social Statics. First edition, 1855 abridged and revised
                                        ;
                                                           :

                                                                                                       ;
       edition, 1892.
Education. First edition, 1861 cheap edition, 1878 sixpenny

       edition, published by the Rationalist Press Association,

1903. Reprinted 1905.
                       Sociology. International Scientific Series, first
The Study   of

                           ;
edition, 1873 second to seventh editions, 1873-78 library
                                                                                             ;
edition, 1880.                                                                                                     ;

The Man versus the State. First edition, 1884 reprinted with

abridged and revised edition of Social Statics, 1892.
Essays. First Series, 1857. Second Series, 1863. Third Series,
1874. Revised edition in three volumes, 1890.
Various Fragments. First edition, 1897 enlarged edition, 1900.
                              :
                                                                                       ;
Facts and Comments. 1902.

Descriptive Sociology

    English. 1873.

    Ancient American Races. 1874.

    Lowest Races, Negrito Races, and Malaya-Polynesian Races.

            1874.

57
578 Life of Herbert Spencer                                             [AFP. c.

       African Races. 1875.             1904.
       Asiatic Races. 1876.

       American Races. 1878.
       Hebrews and Phoenicians. 1880.

       French. 1881.
       Autobiography. In two volumes,

ESSAYS, ARTICLES, AND LETTERS PUBLISHED IN MAGAZINES AND
                                            NEWSPAPERS.

                                                        1836.                     for
                                                                                  for
Crystallization. Bath and West of England Magazine
       January.

The Poor Laws. Bath and West of England Magazine
       March.

                               1839.

'' Skew Arches." Civil Engineer and Architect's Journal for May.

       (Autobiography   517.)i.,
                                           i.,

                                                                     A
                                                        1840.AA

" Geometrical Theorem." Civil Engineer and rchitect's Journal

      for July. (Autobiography 520.)

                               1841.

" New Form of Viaduct." Civil Engineer and Architect's
       Journal for July.
"  The Transverse Strain   of  Beams."  Civil Engineer and Archi-

"      tect's Journal for September.    for the  Civil                  Engineer  and
   Scale of Equivalents." Written

       Architect's Journal, but not published. (Autobiography,                        i.,

       525.)

                               1842.

"Architectural Precedent." Civil Engineer and Architect's
      Journal for January.

Letter on above. Civil Engineer and Architect's Journal for
       March.

u Velocimeter." Civil Engineer and Architect's Journal for July.

       (Autobiography,
                 ;      522.)

                       ; i.,

                                                        ;
                                                                         ;

                                                                                               ;

                                                                                 7,

                                                                                                                                                      ;
Letters u On the Proper Sphere of Government." Nonconformist,
       15, 22 June 13, 27 July 10 August
                                                                        21 September
       19, 26, October 23 November 14 December.

                               1843.

" Effervescence Rebecca and her Daughters." Nonconformist,

u      28 June.  National  Education."  Nonconformist,                  2  August.
   Mr. Hume and
APP. c.] List of Herbert Spencer s Writings                                                        579

"The Non-Intrusion Riots." Nonconformist, 11 October.

Letter about the Derby flood of April, 1842. Architect, Engineer,
       and Surveyor for October.

                                      1844.

" Imitation and Benevolence." Zoist for January.
u Remarks on the Theory of Reciprocal Dependence in the
         Animal and Vegetable Creations, as regards its bearing on

         Palaeontology." Philosophical Magazine for February. (Auto-
        biography,
"  Situation of thei.,533.)  of Amativeness."                           Zoist for July.
                                                                                       i.,Organ
''The Organ of Wonder." Zoist for October.
Various Articles. Birmingham Pilot, September to December.

                                                        1846.

" Justice before Generosity." Nonconformist, 30 December.

                                      1847.

" The Form of the Earth no proof of Original Fluidity." Philo-
         sophical Magazine for March. (Autobiography,
                                                                                            546.)

                                      1848.

Article on " Political Smashers."                 Standard of Freedom, June or
       July.

                                                        1851.AA A

" Solution of the Water Question." Economist, 20 December.
        (Various Fragments, p. 229.)

                                      1852.

" Use and Beauty." Leader, January. (Essays, ii., 370.)
                   of

                                        i.,
                                               3

                                                                     5
""TheThDeeovreylopmofentPopHuylpaotitohne.s"is."  Leader, 20 March. (Essays, i.,1).
                                                  Westminster Review for April.

       (Principles   Biology, 577.)                                     April. (Various Frag-
                       Question." Times,
"The Bookselling

"         ments, p. 1.)                           Leader, 11 October.

         Theory of Tears and Laughter."
"The Sources of Architectural Types." Leader, 23 October.

"       (Essays, ii., 375.)  Style."  Westminster Review for October.
   The Philosophy of

        (Essays, ii.. 333.)                                             (Essays, ii., 381.)
"Gracefulness." Leader, 25 December.

                                                        1853.

"The Value of Physiology." National Temperance Chronicle for
       February.

"The Valuation of Evidence." Leader, 25 June. (Essays, ii.,

         161.)
580               Life of Herbert Spencer                                          [API\ c.

u Over- Legislation." Westminster Revieiv for July. (Essays, iii.,

"       229.)     Postulate."     Westminster Review for October.

   The Universal
"The Use of Anthropomorphism." Leader, 5 November.

                               1854.

" Manners and Fashion."              Westminster Review                            for April.
                                                                                   (Essays, ii.,
       (Essays, iii., 1.)
44 Personal Beauty." Leader, 15 April and 13 May.

"The387A.)rt of Education."       North British Review for May.

       (Education, chap, ii.)     British Quarterly Review for July.
u The Genesis of Science."

        (Essays, ii., 1.)
44 Railway Morals and Railway Policy." Edinburgh Review for
     October. (Essays, iii. 52.)

                                                        1855.

" An Element in Method." A chapter in Principles of Psychology.

       (Various Fragments, p. 3.)

                                                        1856.

Letter to Editor on charge of Atheism. Nonconformist, 23 January.

                                                        1857.

" Progress : its Law and Cause." Westminster Review for April.

"    (Essays,  i.,8.)
   The Ultimate                     i.,Laws                           National Review for

                                                                 :

                                                                  is
                                                                 it
                          of   Physiology."

       October. (Essays, 63.)        Music."                           Eraser's    Magazine for
                                                                                   for ?" West-
41The Origin and Function of         What                                  good
                                                                      iii., 283.)
       October. (Essays, ii., 400.)     (Essays,
44 Representative Government

       minster Revieiv for October.

                                  1858.

14 State Tamperings with Money and Banks." Westminster
      Review for January. (Essays, iii., 326.)
u Moral Discipline of Children." British Quarterly Review for

       April. (Education, chap, iii.)
u Recent Astronomy and the Nebular Hypothesis." Westminster
     Review for July. (Essays,
   A                                                           108.)

                                                          i.,
44 Criticism of Professor Owen's Theory of the Vertebrate
     Skeleton." British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review
     for October. (Principles of Biology, second edition, ii.,'-548.)

                                                           1859.

   44 The Laws of Organic Form." British and Foreign Mcdico-
          Cliirnrgical Review for January.
APP. c.] List of Herbert Spencer's Writings                                                               581

" The Morals of Trade." Westminster Review for April. (Essays,

"      iii., 113.)                                 British Quarterly Review for April.
   Physical Training."

       (Education, chap, iv.)

u What Knowledge is of most Worth." Westminster Review for

   July. (Education, chap,
                    J.

                                                i.)
u Illogical Geology." Universal Review for July. (Essays, 192.)
Letter on Mr. P. Hennessey's paper read at the meeting of                                    i.,
   the British Association.                                                                          i.,
                                                            (Athenceum, 22 October.)

                                                   1860.

" Bain on the Emotions and the Will." British and Foreign

"      Medico-Chirurgical Review for January.                                      (Essays,     241.)
   The Social Organism." Westminster
                                                                                Review for       January.

   (Essays,         265.)i.,

                                                      :

                                                                          8
u The Physiology of Laughter."                                        M acini Han's Magazine for

"      March. (Essays, ii.,                        452.)    Dangers          and the Safeguards."
   Parliamentary Reform                                the

"        Westminster  Review for April.                               (Essays,  iii., 358.)  (Essays, iii.,
                         British Quarterly                            Review    for July.
   Prison Ethics."

   152.)

                                                   1862.

"Theological Criticism." Athenceum, and 22 November.
u On Laws in General and the Order of their Discovery." Part

       of the first edition of First Principles. (Essays, ii., 145.)

                                                   1864.

" The Classification of the Sciences." Published as brochure
                                                                                             a

"      in April.    (Essays, ii., 74.)                                Philosophy  of         M. Comte."
   Reasons for      Dissenting from the

u      Appendix to the                           fo"regRoeinadge. r,   (Essays, ii., 118.)      ii.,
   What Electricity                                                   19 November. (Essays,
   i.,                                                                                                    168.)
        is

                                                ?
                                                         1865.

" The Constitution of the Sun." Reader, 25 February. (Essays,

u  182.)
   The Collective Wisdom." Reader, 15 April. (Essays, iii., 387.)
"  Political Fetichism." Reader, 10 June. (Essays, iii., 393.)
"  Mill versus Hamilton The Test of Truth." Fortnightly Review

   for July. (Essays, ii., 188.)

                                                   1866.

'' On Circulatio'n and the Formation of Wood in Plants."

   Transactions                the Linncvan Society, vol. xxv. (Principles of
                    i.,
   Biology, ii., 567.)
                           of
                                                   1870.

li The Origin of Animal Worship." Fortnightly Review for May.

   (Essays, 308.)
582                          Life of Herbert Spencer                                                   [APP. c.

                                                         1871.

u A New Fishing Rod.'' Field, 14 January. (Autobiography, ii.,

"       504.)  and           Moral  Sentiments."     Fortnightly Review for April.

   Morals

"    (Essays,     i., i.,    331.)
"  Mental Evolution." Contemporary Review for June.
   Specialized Administration." Fortnightly Review forJ.                                       December.

     (Essays, iii., 401.)                 S.

                                                                                   11872.

"  Survival of the           Fittest." Nature, February.                                       Review  for  June.
"  Mr. Martineau             on Evolution." Contemporary

     (Essays,                371.)

                                              1873.

u Replies to Criticisms." Fortnightly Review for November and

"       December. (Essays,          ii., 218.)                                      Examiner, 17 May.       (Auto-
   Obituary Notice of
                                        Mill."

     biography, ii., 506.)

                                                        1874.                         Axioms.  Nature, March

Correspondence relating to Physical
       to June. (Essays, ii., 298-314.)

                                                         1875.                                 Review for

" Professor Cairnes's Criticisms." Fortnightly
       February. (Various Fragments, p. 14.)

                                              1876.

"The Comparative Psychology of Man."                                                  Mind for January.

     (Essays,
   A                         351.)

                        i.,                   1877.

" Views concerning Copyright." Evidence given before the

"    Royal Commission. (Various Fragments, p. 18.)
     Rejoinder to Mr. McLennan." Fortnightly Review for June.
       (Various Fragments, p. 63.)
"  Mr. Tylor's Review of the Principles                                               of Sociology."        Mind

     for July.

                                              1878.

Letter on the toast of "The Fraternity of the two Nations"
                             at dinner in Paris.
        proposed               under Chloroform."                                     Standard, 30 May.
   Consciousness                                                                      Mind for October. (Prin-
"              of

                              a
                                         i.,
     ciples Psychology,                       636.)

                                                        1879.                                  Revue Scientifique

Letter to M. Alglave about the " Lois Ferry."
      for July.
           List of Herbert Spencer Writings
APP.  c.]                                                                                                               583

                           21880.

Letter on the feeling in England about the time of the out-J.
      break of the Civil War in the United States written in
                                                    a
                                                               s1859, but not then published. New York Tribune, 28 June.
       (Autobiography, ii., 497.)
                                                                         i.,Nature,                                     and
u Professor Tait on the Formula of Evolution."                                                             a
                                                                                                                     2
        16 December.      (Various Fragments,  wpi.th75.")  George  Eliot's                                             "
Letter disclaiming       having had to do

      education. Standard, 26 December.

                            1881.

" Replies to Criticisms on the Data of Ethics." Mind for

"       January.         Copyright."  Speech delivered at           meeting
   Views concerning

      of the National Association for the Promotion of Social
       Science, held in
"  Professor Green's     May. (Various   Fragments, p. 57.)                                                             for
                         Explanations."    Contemporary Review
      February. (Essays, ii., 321.)

                            1882.

Letter on " The Anti- Aggression League." Nonconformist and
       Independent, March.
"  Professor Goldwin Smith  as        Critic." Contemporary Review

      for March.
Pecuniary liberality of Mr. S. Mill. Daily News, 27 March.
'' Concerning the Misstatements of the Rev. T. Mozley."

      Athenceum, 22 July. (Autobiography,       549.)
u Ability versus Information." (Various Fragments, p. 91.)
u Book Distribution." (Various Fragments, p. 93.)

                            1883.

Letter on the Edinburgh Review and on the Land Question. St.
        James' Gazette,  14 February.
"  The Americans."         Contemporary Review  for January.        (Essays,

      iii., 471.)

                            1884.

Political Articles. Contemporary Review tor February, April,

      May, June and July.
Letter on          misquotation in the Duke of Argyll's Unity
      8
                   a

                                                                                              5
                                                                                                         9

                                                                                                of
      Nature. Athenceum, 16 February.
u Mental Evolution in Animals." Athenceum, April.
u Retrogressive Religion." Nineteenth Century for July.
Letter repudiating the opinion attributed to him that we should
      be all the better in the absence of education. Standard,

           August.
" Mr. Herbert Spencer and the Comtists." Times, September.
" Mr. Herbert Spencer and Comte." Times, 15 September.
584                  Life of Herbert Spencer                                       [APP. c.

u Last Words about Agnosticism and the Religion of Humanity."
       Nineteenth Century for November.

                                      1885.

"A Rejoinder to M. de Laveleye." Contemporary Review for
       April. (Various Fragments, p. 98.)
Letters on the Spencer- Harrison Book. Times, 1 3, 4 and 6

       June. Standard, 10 and 13 June.                                             (Various
"Government by Minority." Times, 21 December.

      Fragments, p. 110.)

                                      1886.

"The Factors of Organic Evolution."                                      Nineteenth Century for
      April and May. (Essays, 389.)
   A
                                      1888.
                         i.,
                                                          i.,
" Counter Criticism." Nineteenth Century for February.

      (Essays,       467.)
Letter with Reference to his Opinions on Painting. Architect,

"      24 February.  Kant."      Fortnightly Review for July.                      (Essays,
   The Ethics of

      iii., 192.)

                                      1889.

Rev.  J.  Wilson's Statements about articles on " Sociology " in

      the Birmingham Pilot. Pall Mall Gazette, 12 April.
Letters on the Land Question. Times, 11, 15, 19, 27 November.
                                                                   6 7,
                                      1890.
" Absolute Political Ethics." Nineteenth Century for January.
       (Essays, iii., 217.)
"  Reasoned Savagery so-called.              Daily Telegraph, February.
"  The Inheritance of Acquired             Characters." Nature, March.
"  Panmixia." Nature, April.                                                    7
                               3                                                         6

                                   A                                                                of
"Our Space Consciousness. Mind for July. (Principles of
                     ii., 717.)
        Psychology,  Motive."       Guardian,                            August. (Principles

"The Moral

"      Ethics, ii., 446.)           Mind for October.
   The Origin of Music."

                                      1891.

" From Freedom to Bondage." Introduction to                                     A  Plea for

"      Liberty.      (Essays, iii., 445.)                      of  Cruelty  to  Children."    Pall
   The Society        for Prevention
       Mall Gazette, 16 and
"  The Origin of Music."         28   May.
                                      discussion.
                                                                         Mind for October.

                                                        1892.

Letter to Figaro about his unfamiliarity with M. Renan. Pall
      Mall Gazette, 20 October.

Letter on the sales of his books. Daily Chronicle, December.
                                                                                3
APP. c.] List of Herbert Spencer's Writings                                                                  585

                                     1893.

u Social Evolution and Social Duty." (Various Fragments, p.

"         119.)         of  Natural  Selection."              Contemporary Review

    The Inadequacy
        for February and March. (Principles of Biology,
    Professor Weismann's Theories." Contemporary
"   A                                                                                                           602.)  for
                                     of                                                                    Review

                                                    of i.,

                                                                                  5
                                                                                    i.,
                                                                                                        i.,
"   May. (Principles Biology, 633.)
    Rejoinder to Professor Weismann." Contemporary Review
    for December. (Principles
"                                         Biology,            650.)
    Evolutionary Ethics." Athenaeum,
                                                   August. (Various                                          Frag-

    ments, p. 111.)

                                     1894.

u Obituary Notice of Professor Tyndall." Fortnightly Review
        for February.
"   Parliamentary Georgites."          Times, 20 February.                                                   (Various

       Fragments, p. 122.)                                                                                   Daily
Letters relating to the Land Question Controversy.
    Chronicle, August to September.
"Weismannism Once More." Contemporary Review for Octo-
    ber. (Principles
                             Biology,
"   A                                       671.)
                                   of

                                                               i.,
                                                                                                 6
    Record of Legislation." Times, 24 November.                                                              (Various

u        Fragments, p.  125.)  Union."      Times, 26 October.                                               (Various

    The Booksellers'    Trade

"       Fragments, p. 161.)  Times,    30 October and                                                      November.
    The Book Trade."

"The(VaBroioouksseFlrlianggmeQnutse, stpipo.n.1"63,Ti1m6e7s.), 21 November.                                  (Various
" PubFlriasghmeresn,tsB, opo.ks1e6l9le.)rs, and the Public."
                                                              Times, 24 October.

    (Various Fragments, p. 156.) Athenaum, 24 November.
    (Various Fragments, p. 171.) 29 December. (Various
    Fragments, p. 174.) The Author, December. (Various
         Fragments, p. 177.)
''  Origin of Classes among          the    Parasol           Ants." Nature,
                               of
                                              '

                                                   i.,

                                                                        '

                                                                                                6
    December. (Principles Biology, 687.)

                                       1895.

" Herbert Spencer on the Land Question." (Various Fragments,
    p. 196.)
"   The Antiquity of the Medical Profession." Nature, 27
"   Mr.  Balfour's Dialectics." Fortnightly Review for June.                                                 June.
"   The  Nomenclature of Colours." Nature, 29 August.

Note on the Ethical Motive. Nineteenth Century Review for

    September.

"American Publishers." Times, 21 September.                                                                  (Various

    Fragments, p. 236.)
586                     Life of Herbert Spencer                           [APP. c.

" Heredity Once More." Contemporary Review for October.
"LeLtoterdr  on Canadian
             Salisbury on  Copyright.     Tintes, 21 October.
                           Evolution."      Nineteenth Century Review for

"      November.        Trade and  Railway       Station        Boards."  Times, 2
   The Board of

        December. (Various Fragments, p. 235.)                                                                                                   Times,
On Mr. Howard Collins' letter suggesting a portrait.

     14 December.

                                          1896.

u  Dr. Bridges's Criticisms." Positivist Review for January.                                                                                     in
   Anglo-American Arbitration." Letter read at a meeting
"

       Queen's Hall, 3 March. (Various Fragments, p. 128.)
"Against the Metric System." Times, 4, 7, 9, 25 April.

       (Various Fragments, p. 130.)
Letter on Mr. Bramwell Booth's charges of Inconsistency.

     Times, 17 December.

                                          1897.

Clearing himself of seeming implication of " positive or nega-
                     of quotation." Fortnightly Review for January.
"       tive defect  Argyll's Criticisms." Nineteenth Century for May.
   The Duke of

                                          1898.

Letters on "Primitive Religious Ideas." Literature, 5 and 19

       February. Spectator, 23 July.
U A State Burden on Authors." Times, 9 and 16 February.

       (Various  "FMrarg. meMnatsl,locp.k'2s20.)Representation  of his - Views."
Letter on

     Literature, 2 April.
T"" hSCeteellrTeimLoie-fCsehAaernmtdiCsCtrreiytlilcaMnodunltVitpihtlaeicliasHtmieor.n"k.o"mNearNtuaprteou,rrtra2al0it.SOccietnoTcbimeeerf.so, r
                                                                                                                                                 5 May.
                                                                                                                                                  May.

" Asymmetry and Vitalism." Nature, 10 November.
"What is Social Evolution?" Nineteenth Century for Sep-

     tember. (Various Fragments, p. 181.)

                                          1899

" The Duke of Argyll and Mr. Herbert Spencer." Nature,

"        12  January.   Explanation."     Nature, 26 January.
             Meldola's
   Prof.

Mr. Crozier's Charge of Materialism. Literature, 21 January

       and 11 February.                   Literature, 4 February. (Various
" Publishing on Commission."              Times, 28 March, 4, 8, 13 April.

"TheFraMgemterincts,Syps.te2m17.)Again."

     (Various Fragments, p. 205.)
APP. c.] List of Herbert Spencer s Writings                                        587

" Professor Ward on ' Naturalism and Agnosticism.' " Fort-
       nightly Review for December.

Letter on a misrepresentation of Spencer's Ethics. Spectator,

        16 December.
Letter to Mr. Leonard Courtney on the South African War.

       (Various Fragments, p. 223.)

                                               1900.

On the South African War. Speaker, 13 January ; Morning

       Leader, 5 February. (Various Fragments, p. 224.)
u Professor Ward's Rejoinder." Fortnightly Review for April.
""AGnenIenshisumofanthitey.V" erteTibmreast,e
                                               25 July.   (Various Fragments, p.   225.)
                                                Column."      Nature, 25 October.

                                                         1901.  to Dr. Tolver

Letter on Space Consciousness, with reference
       Preston's statement. Mind for January.

                                               1902.

" The Spread of Small Pox." Signed u Observer," Daily News,

"      18 January.         Ethics, 1 March.
   Ethical Lectureships."
The Education Bill. Daily News, 8 April.
Sir Michael Foster as M.P. for London University.
                                                                Times 28

   May.
              APPENDIX D.
ACADEMIC AND OTHER HONOURS. 1

                                                         1871.

University of St. Andrews. Lord Rector.
University of St. Andrews. Doctor of Laws.
St. Andrews Medical Graduates Association. Honorary Member.

Royal Society. Fellow.      1874.
University of Edinburgh.
                          Lord Rector.

University of Aberdeen.        1875.

                          Lord Rector. .

                                                        1876.

Reale Accademia dei Lincei, Rome. Member.
London Dialectical Society. President.

                                                        1880.

Royal Academy of Sciences, Turin. Correspondent.

Royal Society of Naples.     1882.
                          Correspondent.

                                                         1883.

Institut de France. Correspondent.
Institucion Libre de Enseiianza, Madrid. Honorary Professor.
Amercian Philosophical Society, Philadelphia. Fellow.
Twilight Club, New York. Member.
Birmingham Natural History and Microscopical Society. Vice-

        President.

                                                         1885.

Society of Physiological Psychology, Paris. Correspondent.

    'With a few exceptions these proffered honours were declined. In
cases where a mark of honour had been conferred before obtaining
his consent, he made no use of the distinction.
APP. D.]  Academic and other Honours                                   589

                                                        1888.

University of Bologna. Doctor of Philosophy and Letters.
Neurological Society of London. Honorary Member.

Royal Danish Academy.      1889.
                       Member.

                                                        1891.

Royal Academy of Belgium. Associate.

                                                        1892.

Scientific Society of Athens. Member.

                                                         1895.

Royal Order " Pour le Merite."
Imperial Academy of Vienna. Member.
Royal Lombardian Institute, Milan. Member.

                             1896.

University of Buda Pesth. Doctor.                               Rome.  Honorary Pre-
Associazione Educativa Spenceriana,

       sident.

                                                         1897.

Psychological Society of Moscow. Member.                               Honorary
University of Cambridge. Doctor of Science.
University of Edinburgh. Doctor of Laws.
International Peace Association Lombard Union.

       President.

                                                        1901.

British Academy of Letters.

                                                        1903.

University of London. Doctor of Literature.
                        590

          APPENDIX E.
THE NEBULAR HYPOTHESIS.

To the Editor of The Fortnightly Review. 1

SIR, Often in the heat of controversy things are said which,
whether true or not, should be left unsaid. Somewhat irritated
by Professor Ward's expression U A fugitive essay," I named
some facts in a way suggesting interpretations which I over-
looked. Only when I saw the note after publication did I
perceive the construction that would be put upon it. What
mental lapse caused so great an oversight I cannot understand ;
but a shattered nervous system entails countless evils failure

of judgment being one.

Though the note cannot now be cancelled, it is not too late
to correct one of its expressions. It is between forty and fifty
years since the period referred to, and I was incautious enough
to speak from memory. I said that the belief that the nebulae
are remote galaxies was current among astronomers. I should
have said some astronomers. As will be seen on turning to
the essay, I quoted a relevant passage from Humboldt's Cosmos.
As he was in touch with Continental astronomers, and was

in fact presenting the current astronomical conclusions, his

representation of nebulae as remote galaxies was manifestly
held by at least some of them. Doubtless it was the wide
circulation of Cosmos during the fifties (I quoted from the
seventh edition) which diffused this belief, and caused its
acceptance as one which astronomers had established. Hence
                                                           who     still  adhered to "the
iNt ehbauplpaernedHytphoattheinsis18" 57w-8asanysmoilneed           It    was this which
                                                              at.

prompted the essay in question, and gave its original title

    1 See Chap, xxvi., p. 445, note 2. It was arranged that this letter

should be put in type, but that it should not be published in the

Fortnightly if Professor Ward did not make a move. The occasion
for its appearance in the Review not having arisen, it is now published

for the first time.
APP. E.]    The Nebular Hypothesis                                                                                            591

" Recent Astronomy and the Nebular Hypothesis " : its primary
purpose being to show the illegitimacy of the inferences drawn
from Lord Rosse's disclosures. This should not, indeed, have
needed showing. As far back as 1849, Sir John Herschel,
in a description of the nebulae, had put together facts which,
when duly considered, sufficed to show the fallacy of the
current belief. But he made no reference to this belief ; and

though its untruth was readily to be inferred, the inference
was not generally drawn. In the essay just named I quoted
this  pitasfsuargneishferodm"  Sir John Herschel,
that                                                          abaspuprdeunmdin"g                                    the   remark
                               another reductio ad                                                                of the   belief.

Let me add that the question at issue was not one of mathe-
matics, nor of mathematical physics, nor of physical astronomy.
It was simply a question of general reasoning.
     There is an error in the closing part of my last letter which
I must rectify. I had referred to a passage from Sir John
Herschel's Outlines expressing the belief that in clusters of stars

having partially opposing impulses there must occur collisions ;
but that after such collisions there must ultimately arise a
circulation of a permanent character. Since globular clusters,
like others, are formed of stars which, so far as appears, have
opposing impulses, I assumed that all of these were included
in the statement. I had before me at the time the second

volume of Dr. Isaac Roberts's Photographs of Stars, Star-Clusters,
and Nebula, in which, at pp. 1730-8, it is shown, both by the
photographs and the descriptions, that those called globular

clusters are in course of concentration that                                                                      are not in
                                                                                                                  ; is,

                                                                                                                            I
                                                                                                                                it

                                                                                                                                       is it
moving equilibrium (globular                                  misleading word, since
            a
                                                 is
                                                           a
connotes    definite limit, which nowhere exists) and was

the more    lertdeosptsheaucytsinwgthoerrdeeifgfoaunrsdeedstphaeencmdiesgbleoynbdSusilraarJnodchlunthsteeHroest,rhsetchrhaetble'sg" inoswn"
statement

impossible

(Outlines, p. 639). Hence,     never occurred to me that he
                               ;

                                      it

                                             I
assumed some of the globular clusters to be already in state
                                                              is
                                                                                    a
of moving equilibrium nor do understand now for what
reason (save the theological one named) he thus assumed them.
This, however, beside the question, which whether he did
            ; is

               I
so assume them and here closer study of his words obliges

me to admit that was wrong.
This admission, however, does not in the least touch the
main issue. In opposition to view had expressed, Professor
                               a
                                      is

                                        I
Ward said that "the little that known concerning the dis-
tribution and motion of our Sidereal System points clearly to
                                                                                                                  to that of the
tiSnhoelatehrxeSisytpseatnescsmea,goebfutstoahfbalvgeereaarqtruearontgecedom,mepn"tlesthxiisctoymv"ipeawraabnled
                                                                                                                  he asserts  t"habty,
                                                                                                                  maintained
            I
                                                                                       ;

                                                               is
                                                                        it
Sir John Herschel. My reply was that the passage makes no
reference to our Sidereal System, either directly or by implica-
tion, but only to extremely minute components of
                                                                                                                  telescopic
59 2  Life of Herbert Spencer  [APP. E.

star-clusters. And now to this negative proof of misrepresenta-
tion I have to add positive proof ; for on pp. 630-1, Sir John
Herschel discusses the speculations that had been ventured
respecting the rotation of our Sidereal System, and after
rejecting the only definite one named, that of Madler, expresses
his own neutrality, and thinks that an opinion can be formed
only after some thirty or forty years of a special class of

observations.

                             HERBERT SPENCER.

      Brighton,

          April ISth, 1900.
                                              593

                                              INDEX.

ABBOT, F. E., American critic, 130, 144                                 Alphabet, Spencer's scheme for natural,37

Aberdeen Free Press, 287                                                Alton, E. H., compiler of Descriptive
Aberdeen University, Spencer's refusal                                     Sociology,
                                                                                       453  note
   of honours, 184 seq.                                                 Altruism, A.        Wallace                             on genesis of,
Abney, Sir W. de W., 383                                                                R.
Aborigines' Protection Society, 326
Absolute, The : Sir John f lerschel on,                                     199

   97 ; in ethics, 330 seq.                                             Alviella (see Goblet d'Alviella)
Abydos, 206                                                             America : Spencer's literary relations, 99,
Academic des Sciences Morales, &c.,                                     IO2, 106, 109 seq., 160, 164 seq., 215,
                                                                        375, 409 ; first subscribers to Synthetic
                                                                        Philosophy, roo seq. ; Civil War, 106

    Paris, 232 sqq.                                                     seq. , 145, 207 seq. ; practical sym-
Academy, The, 201, 410                                                  pathy with Spencer, 127 seq., 164, 218
Accademia dei Lincei, Rome, 194                                         seq., 479 ; Spencer's proposed dedica-
Achilles, as the ideal of Christians, 400                               tion of philosophy to friends in, 146 ;
Achranich (see Ardtornish)                                              International Scientific Series, 159 ;
Acquired Characters, controversy con-                                   political machinery, 160; attitude to-

cerning inheritance of, 269, 343 sqq.,                                  wards Spencer, 202, 228, 253 seq., 387 ;
                                                                        Spencer's visit, 204, 217, 225 seq., 339 ;
    460                                                                 copyright question, 209, seq. , 265 seq. ,
                                                                        272; political state, 210; Twilight
Acton, Lord [First Baron], 197, 267                                     Club, 230: Japanese relations, 321
Acts of Parliament, scheme for tabu-

   lating, 316 seq.                                                     seq. ; Chinese immigration, 323 ; Henry
Adamson, Prof. Robert, 383                                              George's attack on Spencer, 338
.(Esthetic Progress (originally included                                                                                         ; admiration of
                                                                                                                                "dreadful catas-
in Spencer's scheme for Synthetic                                       st"reoqsp.mh',aertte"s"timmimoepnnei,anld3, i6n73g3,;9
                                                                                                                                   ib ', Spencer's
    Philosophy), 375
Afghan war, 399                                                         pamphlet on metric system, 379 ; arbi-
Agassiz' opinion of Spencer, 150                                        tration, 379 seq. ; war with Spain,
Agnosticism: 81,255; Spencer's change                                   409 ; doctor asks for bequest of Spen-
from Theism to, 398, 491 ; attitude to                                  cer's brain, 499 ; Declaration of Inde-
   believers,
Airlie, Lord,  457                                                         pendence, 569
                 221                                                    Amphimixis, Weismann's theory, 352
                                                                        Amusements, recommended by Spencer
Airy, Sir G. B. (Astronomer Royal),                                         to his friends, 528
   early correspondence with, 425                                       Anarchist, use of term by an individualist,

Alcock, Sir Rutherford, appreciation of

   Descriptive Sociology, 173                                               367
Alexander, Prof. S., 484
Alexandria, 205, 206                                                    Ancestor Worship, ecclesiastical institu-

Alger, William R., American author ;                                       tions derived from, 573
   expression of sympathy with Spencer,                                 Andrews, Prof., physicist, 432, 552
                                                                        Animism : controversy with E. B. Tylor
128
                                                                            concerning, 356 seq., 409, 451
Alglave, French translator, 200                                         Anti- Aggression League, 221 seq. , 379,

Allbutt, Prof. T. Clifford, 484                                             410, 53
Allen, Grant : 21 1, 383 ; writes eulogistic                            Anti-Gambling League, 327, 358
                                                                        Antiquity, veneration for, 34, 46
   verses, 171; Charles Danvin, 247;                                    Anti- Vaccination League, 422
                                                                        Ants, differentiation of classes, 408
visits to and from, 284, 415 ; champion-                                Appleton, D. & Co., Spencer's American
ship of Spencer, 377                          'd. e"atPhe, rs4o1n5al ;
iRnetemlliencistuceanl ceqsua"litieso,f   ;                                publishers, no, 218, 260 seq., 342

                                         ib.

Letter to, 377                           Spencer, 489.

                                         _,

     38
594 Life of Herbert Spencer

Appleton, W. H., 202, 209, 446                                       Avebury, Lord (see  Lubbock)         Wood,
A priori method in Spencer's philoso-                                Avenue Road, No.    64, St. John's

Arbphityra, t5io1n2,  seq.              379  seq.                       Spencer's menage at, 326 seq., 329,
                                                                        365 seq., 380, 404 seq.
                       Anglo-American,
Architect, The, 282, 584
                                                                     BABBAGE, Charles, 113                         of
A"rcAhrcitheictet,ctuErnagl inePerrecaenddenSt,u"rveypoarp, er579by  Bacon, Francis : Spencer's knowledge
                                                                        his writings, 418 ; application of saying
    Spencer on, 34, 283, 578
Architecture, often spoiled by excess, 411                              Babdye,n4-1P9owell, Sir G. S., 383, 426
Ardtornish (formerly Achranich) Ar-                                     Baer, K. von, formula of development,

    gyllshire, Spencer's visits to, 82, 95,
     101, 103, 109, 116, 123, 137, 172, 180

   seq., 190 seq., 200, 216, 237, 308 seq.,                                 546
   472 ; a last reminder of, 470 (illustra-                             Bailliere, French publisher, 193, 197,

   tion opp. page 309)                                                      206
Arena, 313
Argoed, The, Monmouthshire, 287, 288                                    Bain, Prof. Alexander: 81, 116, 215,
Argyll, [Eighth] Duke of, 382; lettei
Aritsot,o3tl4e6, Spencer's knowledge of his                               24wf1Ma558ol9os17re,r,k,a,43rl5e87513pS131co,55i;re4tn7;EcoM2meSf,pio;dletleif1nooa9conut5enhsnr,d;'seha1rrin8esrd9veoigpe;ftahswMMreydcieonhWnffodotl",rioal,lgl,D1i1ca7a91an3t65la.,,i;

    writings, 418                                                          of Ethics," 201 ; opinion of Spencer's
Arnold, Matthew, 209, 456, 460                                          last book, 460 ; death, 471 ; Spencer's
Arnold, Dr. [Thomas], 297
Arnott's smoke-consuming grate, 82
Art: French architectures and furniture,                                appreciation, 472. Letters to, 116,
   76 ; Spencer's scheme fur classifying                                457, 471 ; letter from, 471
   artistic characters of paintings, 374                                Bain, Mrs., 471 seq.
   seq. ; Ruskin's views, 403 ; need for                                Baker, Miss, 310; letter lo, 317
   restraint, 411                                                       Balfour, Rt. Hon. Arthur James: 477;
"  Art of Education,"                                                   criticism of Spencer's philosophy at
                       544,  580
                                                                                        344 seq. ;  Spencer's article
Artisans (see Working Classes)                                          oGnlas"goMw,r.  Bilfour's   Dialectics," 368,
Assouan, 206

Astronomy : in scheme for Synthetic                                     585; visit to Spencer, 381 ; co-opera-

   Philosophy, 377, 425 ; Spencer's                                     tion in testimoi.ial to Spencer, 382
                                                                           seq., 385. Letters to, 388, 453
   writings concerning, 425 set]. , 55 *                                Balfour [F. M.], 226
   genesis of asteroids, 552                                            Ball, Sir Robert S., 383
Atheism, repudiated by Spencer, 8l (v.

   491, 58o)                                                         i Bancroft, George, 100
Athenaeum, The (Club) : 142, 215, 239,                               j Barbarism, recrudescence of, 410 seq.
   292, 298, 405, 532 ; Spencer's election,                             Bainett,  Rev. S. (Canon), 205
   494 seq. ; S,.encer's attachment to,                              \  Baslian,  Dr. Henry Charlton : Spencer's
   494 seq. ; his qualities as a club-man,
   495 se1- > Gallon's smoke-room talks                                 trustee, ix. ; co-operation in this woik,
                                                                        ib. ; letter to, on booksellers, 361 ; tes-
   with Spencer, 501 ; Spencer's imprac-                                timonial to Spencer, 382 seq. ; opinion
   ticable administration, 508 set/.                                    of Herkomer's portrait, 394 ;          corres-
Athentzum (periodical), 81, 105 seq.,                                   pondence concerning Norman              Lock-

   201, 336, 581, 583, 585                                              yer's speculations, 434 ; visit to
Athleticism, 328                                                        Spencer in his illness, 469
Australia: Press attitude to "Religious                                 Bastian, Mis. Charlton, 407
   Retrospect, &c.," 254; Sptncerian
                                                                        Basutoland question, 219
   Society in Melbourne, 463                                            Bath and West of England Magazine, 19,
Author, The, 585.
Authority: women always supporters of,                                      578   Dr.   George  M., 230   in,  j6
                                                                        Beaid,
    138; honorary titles strengthen, 235
   (see also Herbert Spencer, Character-                                Beauty : substantiality a factor
                                                                        Beckett, Sir Edward (Lord Grimthorpe),
   istics)                                                              BBBeeededdcdchraoieretdir,c,,isJHomFhe.nnoE,rfy.S,MWpF.eDa.nRr.cd,.eSr:3'.s8,ic3po3h8;i3loaspopprheyci,ati2o3n9

Autobiography of Spencer : in relation
   to this work, vii. seq., initiation, 177 ;
   lacuna, 205 ; writing     of, 238 ; con-
   templated publication     of part during                                of Spencer,  128, 252
   life, 257; coincidences, 406. (Fre-                                                  van, 310,
                                                                        Beethoven, L.               411
   quent other references throughout this Bell, Graham, 193
                                                                        Bellow;:, Henry W., 100
   work)
                                                     Index                                                                               595

Benn, Alfred W. , unpublished review of                                                        Botha, General Louis, letters to, on

Synthetic Philosophy, 401 seq. ; letter                                                        management of Boer Relief Fund, 464
to, 402                                                                                        Boughton   Monchelsea,
                                                                                               Bourne,                      405
Bentham, Jeremy, Spencer's knowledge                                                                     H. R. Fox :        letter  to,  on  the
                                                                                               Kanaka Question in Queensland, 326
of his writings, 418
Bepton, Sussex, 448, 532                                                                       Bournemouth,
Besant, Sir Walter, 383                                                                     I                   I.2, 79100
                                                                                               Bowditch, J.
Betting, 327                                                                                j Bowen,    Sir Charles,
Bevington, Miss  L.            S.                                                           | Bowen,    F., 100             267

                                   ,  216,  410

Bibliotheque Pacifiste Internationale,                                                         Bowman, Thomas, Warden of Merton,

   476                                                                                             484

Billiards, saying falsely attributed to                                                        Boys, Prof. C. V., 383
                                                                                               Brabrook [Sir], E. W., 383
    Spencer, 298 seq.                       devised  by                                        Bradlaugh, Charles, 222
Binding-pin, appliance                                                                         Brant-Sero, Mr. (Iroquois), proposes

Spencer, 52, 538                                                                                  translation of Education into Mohawk,

Biography : popularity of, 379 ; what                                                          452     Mrs.,    Letter to,
   should be included in a complete, 533                                                               John,
                                                                                               Bray,            A.R.A.,      462
Biology : Spencer's early interest in,                                                         Brett,                       282
63, 535 ; importance of physics, 96 ;
spontaneous generation, 144 seq. ;                                                             Brettell, settlement of immigrants            so
views of experts on Spencer's work,                                                               named at Stourbridge, I
        seq. ; interbreeding of
151     ; inheritance of acquired           races, 322                                         Brettell, Jane, see Holmes
seq.                                        characters
                                                                                               Brettell, Jeremiah, 2
or functionally-wrought modifications,                                                         Brettell, John, 2

343> 547 seq. ; its study essential for                                                        Brettell, Joseph, of Wordsley, Spencer's
the ethical teacher, 419 ; commence-                                                              descent from, 2

ment of life on the earth, 443 seq. ;                                                          Brettell, Joseph, Wesleyan Minister, 2

filiation of Spencer's              ideas in,    5a40prsieoqr.,i                               Bridge, James, Spencer's secretary, 222
546 seq., 549, 553,                555 seq. ;
r"eaesvoonliuntgi,on,"54955;3  first use of                                                    Bright, Rt. Hon. John, M.P., 55, 208.
                               note ; alleged        word
for Sociology, 570 note                              basis                                         Letters to, 221, 224

Birks, Canon, 188                                                                              Bright, Rev. Dr. J. Franck, 484

Birmingham : Complete Suffrage Con-                                                            Brighton, Sussex : 76, 82, 100, 193, 215,
   ference, 37 ; Pilot newspaper, 48, 287                                                         222, 239, 275, 353 ; Spencer's resi-
                                                                                                  dence at, 406, 454, 471 ; Free Church
Birmingham and Gloucester Railway                                                                 meeting, 466 ; official mark of respect
(afterwards merged in Midland Rail-                                                               at Spencer's funeral, 477

                                                                                               Brighton and Hove Natural History

way) : Spencer's appointment on, 22,                                                              Society, 477
                                                                                               British Academy of Letters, 456
    536                                                                                        British Association Meetings : 172, 217 ;

Birmingham Natural History and Micro-                                                             Lord Salisbury's address, 363 seq.
   scopical Society, 231, 250                                                                  British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical

Bitter Cry of the Outcasts of London,                                                             Review, 81, 552, 580 seq.
                                                                                               British Library of Political Science, 403
243                                                                                            British Quarterly Review, 59, 75, 85,
Black, William, 215, 222
Black and White, 452
Blunt,                                                                                             87, 105 seq., 165, 545, 580
        , 271
Blunt, Wilfrid Scawen,                      writes Satan                                       Brodrick, Hon. George C., letter to, 304
                                                                                               Brooklyn Ethical Association, 293, 294,
BosAeehbqms.o;,lveleSdtitreartsEdStgop,aern4,c1e0rR'ss.eAqin..,,st4ig5h0aistiobnu, st41o1f
                                                                                                   398  Prof., letter to, 418     note
                                                                                               Brough,
                                                                                               Browning, Oscar, 197
   Spencer, 244                                                                                Browning, Robert: 210,            4a1p1pl;ieldinesbyfroImI.
Boers, policy towards outlanders, 422 ;                                                           "The Lost Leader"

   Relief fund, 464                                                                               George to Spencer, 339, 340           U.S.A.,
Bologna, Italy, 205                                                                            Bruce, Mr. [S. Noble], 192
Bologna, University of, degree conferred                                                       Brunton, [Sir|, T. Lauder, 383
   on Spencer, 291                                                                             Bryant, Edwin W., St. Louis,
Bonney, Canon T. G., 484
Booksellers' discounts and net prices, 67,                                                         174

                                                                                               Buchanan, Robert : 410; Spencers ap-
    166, 361 seq., 579, 585                                                                    preciation and criticism of The Out-
                                                                                                                exposure of      Christian hypo-
Booth, W. Bramwell, attack on Spencer,                                                         cast,    307 ;   ; defence        of Spencer in
                                                                                               ciisy,      308
    398                                                                                        Huxley controveisy, 333 seq., 307 seq. ;
Bosanquet, Bernard. 383
596 Life of Herbert Spencer

  death, 452. Letter to, the " higher                                           cer recommends amusements to, 505.
                                                                                 Letters to, 154 seq., 399, 432
   socialism," 334                                                           Cecil, Lord Arthur, 200
Buckle, Thomas Henry : on programme                                          Cecil, Lord Lionel, 200
                                                                             "Ceremonial Institutions" (a division
   of Synthetic Philosophy, 97. Letter                                          of Spencer's Principles of Sociology),
   from, 88

Buda Pesth, University of, 370                                                   191, 194,   200,  204,    205,   238, 569  :  on
Bunsen, Baron, 445, 552                                                                      Rev.
Burcleau, Auguste, Vice- President of the                                    Chadwick,             J.    W.,     Brooklyn

   French Chamber, and translator of                                            Spencer's characteristics, 500 seq. ;

Spencer's Essays, 359                                                           on Spencer's philosophy, 520 seq.
Burdeau,   Mme.,      Letter  to, 359                                        Chamberlain, Rt. Hon. Joseph : 464 ;
Burgess,                       his portrait  of                                 Canadian copyright, 376 ; presence at
           J. B.,     R.A.,

   Spencer, 393 seq.                                                            disestablishment meeting recalled, 466
Busk, Dr. (George), 123, 124, 193, 194                                       Chambers, Robert, 66 : on Spencer's
Butler, Mrs. Josephine, Letter to, on
                                                                                population theory, 64 ; on programme
   coercive methods in social affairs, 420                                      of Synthetic Philosophy,
Buzzard, Dr. Thomas, 358. Letter to,                                                                             97
                                                                             Chapin, E. H., 100
   certification of nurses, 315                                              Chapman, Dr. John, 54, 58, 63, 86, 88,

                                                                                542, 547

CAINE,  WDHr.a. lSlE,.,dCwMaan.raPdd.,,ianM35a8csotepryrioghf t,Ba3l7li6ol,  Character, in relation to politics, 316,

Caine,                                                                          420 (v. 540, 575 seq.)
Caird,                                                                       Chemistry, evolution of elements, 434,

    423   J. E. :     173;  letter to, Laissez-                                  445
Cairnes,
                                                                             Chesson, F. W., 219
faire, 161                                                                   Children : Spencer's advice to a mother,

Cairo, 205, 206, 212                                                            286, 317 seq. ; prevention of cruelty
                                                                                to, 303 seq. (See also Education)
Calderon, Philip H., R.A., 282                                               China: relations with foreigners, 318;
Calderwood, Prof., Edinburgh, 204
Cambridge, University of : proposal to                                          Descriptive Sociology, 453 note ; trans-
                                                                                lation of Spencer's work, 461 note
   confer degree, 389 ; Hegelianism,                                         Christian Examiner, 128, 130
   457 ; proposed memorial to Spencer                                        Christianity : attitude of clergy to Spen-
   in Westminster Abbey (signatures),                                           cer, 202, 251, 254, 328; objection to
                                                                                Spencer's Study of Sociology at Yale,
    484 seq.                                                                    208 ; profession and practice contrasted,

Campbell, Lord, 67
Canada : Copyright question, 375 seq. ',
   Spencer's visit, 225                                                         220, 308, 400, 413, 423 ; dissociation
Carlyle, Thomas : 220 ; Cromwell, 53 ;                                          of religion and ethics, 324 ; eternal
Spencer's opinion of, 378, 455 ; his                                            torment, 354 ; relapse of those who
oopf in"iosncienocfe  Spencer, 378    ; repudiation                             abandon, 465 ; Spencer's attitude, in
                       of history,"  567                                        connection with proposed memorial
                                                                                in Westminster Abbey, 486 sqq. ; in
Carnarvon, Earl of, 373                                                         private life, 492
Carnegie, Andrew : 317 ; gift of piano to                                    Church of England : 33, 35 ; Arnold's
Spencer, 305, 310; views concerning                                             opinion, 460 ; disestablishment scheme,
wealth, ib. ; asks Spencer to sit for
his portrait, 387, 393 ; thoughts of                                            466 seq.
Spencer in his illness, 472 ; request
                                                                             Church Congress, appreciation of Spen-

for memento, 473 seq. Letters to, 305,                                          cer at, 202

   387, 419, 465, 472                                                        CCiirvenilceEsntgerin, e7e9r and Architects' Journal,
Carpenter, W. B., Principles of Physio-
logy, 6 1                                                                    Civ2i6li,za34ti,o5n7,8 conception of, in Social

Carr's Dynamometer, 26                                                          Statics, 540
Carus, Prof. Victor : 359 ; translator,                                      Clark, Sir Andrew, Bart. : testimonial to,
420 ; pays Spencer the highest com-
   pliment he ever received, 421                                                283 ; reads Spencer's writings as a
Gary, Henry C., 100                                                             tonic, 522
                                                                             "  Classification  of the Sciences,"    113, 377,
Cause : relativity of idea, 402 ; investi-
   gation of, an analytic process, 534                                          588
                                                                             Clifford, Kingdon : 429, 431 ; lecture on
Gazelles, Dr. E. : French translator of

Spencer's works, 129, 153, 222, 365;                                            mental development, 143
Introduction to Evolution Philosophy,                                        Cliftonville, Margate, 358
153 seq., 170 seq. ; relinquishes trans-                                     Clodd, Edward : 383; Memoir             of  Grant
lation for political reasons, 399 ; Spen-
                                                                                Allen, 415
                                                  Index                                                       597

   Clothing, importance of proper distribu-             Contemporary Review, 149, 159, 160,

      tion over body, 317 set/.                            187, 212 seq., 217, 226, 238 seq., 245,
   Cobden, Richard : character develop-                    346 sqq, 413, 582 sqq.

      ment, 32   Lord  Chief Justice,                   Conway, Moncure, 145 ; proposal for
   Cockburn,                                dictum         "supreme court of civilization,"
                                                           seq. ; letters to, 355, 410, 450                        409
      on martial law, 451
   Coincidences : importance attached to,               Cooper, J. Astley, letter to, 328
    357 ; basis for belief in the super-
   natural, 372 ; estimation of probabili-              Co-operation, 358
   ties, 471                                            Copyright: international, 159, 209, 265,
Coit, Dr. Stanton, correspondence on                       266, 272 ; Royal Commission, 189,
                                                                 582 ; Canada, 375 seq.                  ; letter to
   ethical  mSo.veTm.,enIdt,ea45o4f  set/.                 J.453,    Balfour suggesting                  legislative
Coleridge,
                                     Life,                 A.
                                            541,           action, 453
                                                  543   Cornhill Magazine, 43 1
Collier, James, Spencer's secretary : 147,              Corn-Law Repeal, effect on pauperism,
   237 ; Reminiscences of Spencer, 489
Collier, Hon. John, 244                                    161

Collins, F. Howard : 231, 250; Epitome                  Correspondents, examples of requests re-
                                                           ceived by Spencer from, 447 seq.
   of Synthetic Philosophy, 287 ; pam-
   phlet and correspondence concerning                  Cosmic Philosophy, Spencer's objection
   inheritance of acquired characters, 342                 to title,
   sqq. ; proposal for portrait of Spencer,             "  County      157 seq.                          313

                                                                      Council Tyranny,"
                                                        Courtney, Leonard (now Lord                           C. of
   373) 586; co-operation in testimonial,
   390 seq. ; correspondence with Bram-                    Penwith) : 382 ; address at Spencer's
   ?,well Booth, 398. Letters to, 373, 374,                funeral, 477 sqq., $22. Letter to, on
                                                           relations with his constituents, 423
   387, 389. 395         398, 455                       Courtney, Mrs. Leonard (now Lady C.
Cologne Cathedral, Spencer's opinion of,
                                                           of    Peanswit"h,grunnedeyomKaetteer,"Pott3e1r)1,
    72                                                                                                        204 ;
                                                           acts                                               seq.;
Colonial federation, 328
Colour-blindness, frequency                 among          visit to Spencer in his illness, 419;

   Quakers, 345                                            his last letter, 476 ; reminiscences of
Colours, Spencer's scheme for nomen-                    CoSuptaenntc,erM, .4,92Pasrqisq,.,
                                                                                             497  seq.,  509
                                                                                            475
   clature, 374                                         Craig-Sellar, Mrs., 30% seq.
Columbus, Christopher, Spencer's eulogy                 Crawford and Balcarres, Earl                     of,

   of, 490                                              Cremer [Sir], W.       R.,                            437
                                                        Crichton- Browne,      Sir
Communism : land question, 248 ; ten-                                                       J2.2,3 383
   dency to, 238 (see also Socialism)                   Cripps,  Judy,
                                                        Cripps,  Mrs.     286  (see         297)    Potter),       279,
Compayre, Gabriel, 465                                                                      (nee
Complete Suffrage Union, 36 seq., 47,                                     W.   H.
                                                           297. Letter to, on care of her child-
   538                                                     ren, 286

Comte, Auguste : Spencer's philosophical                Critics, Spencer's experience of, 188,
                                                           201, 211, 407 sqq., 412
   relations to, 72, 74 seq., 1 12 seq., 131,           Croft, W. C. (Liberty and Property
   153. 156. 2 58, 287, 376 seq., 545, 559 ;               Defence League), letter to, 224
   meeting with, 82 ; influence on Eng-                 Crookes, Sir William, theory of com-

   lish scientific thought, 114; donation

    to Spencer from his executor, 126 ;                    position of elements, 434 seq.
   the worship of humanity, 195 ; Har-                  Cross, John W. : 87, 137, 194, 214, 365 ;
   rison-Spencer controversy, 254 seq. ;
   Hector Macpherson on his limited con-                   Life of George Eliot, 266, 542 ; letter
   ception of philosophy, 516 sqq. ; what                   to, 367
   Spencer owed to him, 545, 559                                      J.  W.   ("           George  Eliot,"?.*.)
Congregational Board of Education, 60                   Cross, Mrs.
Congreve, Richard, letter from, on Har-                 Cross, Miss Mary, 365
                                                        Crucifixion, tableau vivant of, at St.

    rison-Spencer controversy, 255                          Cloud, 76     H. H., on Crooke's                  theory
Consciousness, evolution of, exemplified,               Cunynghame,
                                                           of composition of elements, 434
   179 seq.                                             Curtis, George W., 100
"  Consciousness  under  Chloroform,"             192,

    195. 582     of Energy,  Spencer s criti-           DAILY CHRONICLE, 359, 584 ; land
Conservation
   cism of term, 175                                       question, 341 seq., 585
                                                        Dailv    News, 583,
Conservative Party, Spencer's attitude,                 Daily    Telegraph,    587          333   seq.,  584
                                                                              222,

"  312                                                  Dale, A. W. W., Vice-Chancellor, Liver-
   Constitution
                 of the Sun," 431, 559, 581                pool University, 484
598 Life of Herbert Spencer

Dalhousie, Lord, 237, 297                                                     Alcock's appreciation, 173 ; losses,
DDDaaalnllhiineoglu,esire,R,eDvL.ra.Cd.Wy,H. 2.3H7O.,,.,239847384                                                                  F.
Darrell, Lionel, 205, 206                                                     2H6a31rriso3n3,9   5 disparagement, by
Darwin, Charles : on Spencer's biological                                                       264 ; Chinese division,          295,
                                                                              453 n tf i        Spencer's testamentary           pro-

                                                                              visions, 453 ; new divisions in progress,
                                                                              iii. note

speculations, 87, 125 ; effect of Origin                                      "Development Hypothesis," 65, 543,

of Species on Spencer's recognition,                                              546, 579
140 ; Descent of Man and mental
evolution,  1"48Pansegqe.n;esoips,i"nion151of;                     Spen-      Development Theory (see Evolution)
cer, 150;                                                          death      Devonshire, the Duke of, 484
                                                                              Dewar, Prof. [Sir] James, 437
and funeral, 223 ; Spencer's philoso-                                         Dickens, Charles, Christinas tale, 53
phical relations to, 236 seq. , 245, 246,                                     Disraeli, Benjamin [Earl of BeaconsfieldJ,
                                                           555, 565;
247, 256,   258, 313,       5;40,"                         Factors of            desire to help Spencer, 92
theory ot   music, 237                                                        Dixon, Hepworth, editor of Athetiteum,
Organic Evolution," 269 sqq ', use-
inheritance, 343 ; alleged socialistic                                            95            James,         Principal      of St. An-
                                                                              Donaldson,

implications of doctrines, 368 ; pro-                                            drew's University, 384
posal to acquire house at Down for                                            Donisthorpe, Wordsworth, tabulation of
                                                                              Acts of Parliament, 316; letters to,
biological purposes, 396 sqq. ; on value
of speculation, 513
                                                                              360 seq.
Letters to, 117, 148 seq., 151, 160,                                          Dorking, 284 sqq.
167 ; letters from, 87, 98                                                    Dover, 78 ; design for landing pier, 43
Darwin, Dr. Erasmus, 269                                                                Dr. Arthur,
Darwin,                                                                       Downes,                           271     seq.
Darwin,                                                                       Draper,  J. W., 100,             226
            Francis, 384                                   H. : 384,
            Prof. [Sir] George                                        437  ;  Dreams, fulfilment of, a question of co-

D" aDlerawtttieanr,soWfto,.Et2Eh2.i3,c,s3"3895(7P, a4r4t1    seq.                incidence,     357            Henry :  Natural  Law
                                                                              Drummond,         Prof.
                                                           I. of
                                                                   Spencer's  in the Spiritual World, 232 ; alleged
Principles of Ethics, q.v.), 194, 196
seq., 201, 212, 214 ; Japanese transla-                                          plagiarism, 363
   tion, 231                                                                  Drunkenness, outcry against, 281
Davidson, Prof.  W. L., 471                                                   Dublin, impressions of, 146
De Morgan, William, 210                                                       Dublin Review, 173
Debus, Dr. Heinrich, 193                                                      Duncan, Dr. David (the author) : origin
Decimal System, 22, 379
Deduction : a synthetic process, 535 ;                                           of this work, vii. seq. ; Spencer's secre-
                                                                                 tary and assistant, 141 seq., 147
   Huxley's hatred of, 549 ; his remark                                       Duodecimals, 37
   about Spencer's proneness to, 502                                          Dutch Judge, Spencer's refusal to meet,
Deductive Philosophy, title and scheme                                           at Cairo, 498
proposed for omitted divisions of                                             Dynamometer, appliance invented by

   Synthetic Philosophy, 426 seq.                                                Spencer, 25, 26
Defford, bridge over Avon at, originates                                      Dysart, Earl of, 247, 353, 384. Letters

   nickname for Spencer, 25                                                      to: Home Rule, 315; importance of
Degrees (see Titles)
Delmonico's, New York, 225, 226, 230                                          character in politics, /'/'. seq.
Denmark : official invitation to Spencer
   to write on Social Development, 462 ;                                      EARTH, the : Spencer's speculations con-
   Royal Danish Academy, 291
Derby : 84, 93 ; Spencer's grandfather                                        cerning atmosphere and form, 425 ;
   settles in, 3 ; Spencer's birthplace, 7,                                   age, 438 ; constitution of interior, ib. :
   389 ; Spencer'shome in Wilmot Street,                                      cooling, 441
   9 ; political events, 36 seq., 54 ; Spencer                                E"cEleccctliecsiaRsetvicieawl ,
                                                                                                                 38 seq.      (Principles

                                                                                                               Institutions"
                                                                              of Sociology, Part vi.), 245 seq., 251 sqq.,
Society, 389
                                                                              266

Derby, Earl of (Lord Stanley), 211 ;                                          Economist: 48, 56, 57 sqq. ,63, 77, 579 ;
   testimonial to Spencer, 92 ; on Spen-                                          Spencer's sub-editorship, 56, 57, 62,
   cer's Ethics, 199
                                                                              67, 70
Derby, Countess of, reception at Foreign                                      Edinburgh Review. 69, 76 seq., 117 seq.;
   Office,                                                                    193, 229, 580 ; review of evolution
Derby       M1e8t5asiirqy.  (1790),                        reference  to          philosophy, 238
                                                                              Edinburgh University,            184^., 389
   Spencer's grandfather in, 3                                                Education : Spencer's early interest in
Descriptive Sociology: 140 sqq., 147 seq.,
                                                                              subject, 29 ; as a franchise qualifica-
   164 seq., 218 seq., 568, 571 ; Sir R.
                                                     Index                                               599

tion, 94 ; State agency, 257, 403, 454,                     formerly current, 538 ; evolutionary

474 ; journalistic plebiscite concerning                    conception, 574 seq. ; conclusions con-
leading educationists, 259 ; London                            cerning private conduct empirical,
Liberty Club, 277 ; outcry against                          Ethics (periodical), 587                            575
insufficient, 281 ; centralization and                      Evans, Sir John, 384
                                                            Evans, Marian (see Eliot, George)
uniformity, 404, 454; Spencer's views                       Everett, Edward, 100
not influenced by Rousseau, 465 seq. :
   evolutionary conception, 544                             Eversley, Lord (Mr. Shaw Lefevre), 475
Education, Intellectual, Moral, and                         Evolution : man the highest result, 62 ;
Physical [collected essays by Spencer]:
                                                            Darwin's views, 87, 245, 313 ; incom-
58, 71, 74, 84 seq., 87, 102 seq., 533,                     patible with spontaneous generation,
544, 577 ; sixpenny edition, 465 ;
   translations,  197, 452, 461 note                        144 seq. ; Gazelles' outline, 153            ; reply
                                                            to criticisms on doctrine, 165 ;
Edward VII.,      King: 468; absurd story                                                                A. R.

   of, when Prince     of Wales, 414                    ;   Wallace    ; oWn .alHtru. isHmu,dso1n9's9    ; heredity,
Egypt : visit and      impressions, 204                     269 seq.                                     exposition,

crisis in, 223 seq.                               sqq.      313 ; social state, 336, 540 sqq., 567

Egyptians, Ancient, Descriptive Sociology,                  sqq.    ;  religious ideas, 251 sqq., 569
                                                            sqq.       application to inorganic nature,
                                                                    ;

    453                                                     424 sqq., 445 ; origin of elements, 434
                                                            sqq., 445 ; equality of men excluded,
Elam, Dr., 187, 188                                         466 ; filiation of ideas in relation to,
Electric current, analogy in nervous

action, 179                                                     540 sqq.
Elements, chemical, products of evolu-
   tion,                                                    Examiner, 167, 582
Eliot,     434 seq.                                         Exhibition, the Great (1851), 62
          George (nle                                       Exhibition, International (1862), 104
                             Marian      Evans):     205,   Explanation, relativity of the conception,

414  ; first      meeting,   63 ; introduced                    402
by   Spencer                  Lewes, 64 ; on                Eyre, Governor, 451
                  to G. H.

Spencer's ethics, 199 ; last meeting,
214 ; death and funeral, ib. ; Spencer's
relations with, 215, 266 sqq. ; her
mental powers, 296 ; gives Mill's
Logic to Spencer, 418 ; instigates                          " FACTORS of Organic Evolution," 247,
Spencer to read Comte, 545. Letter
   from, 214                                                    269 seq.
Ellicott, Dr., Bishop of Gloucester, 188
                                                            Facts and Comments (Spencer's last

                                                            book) : 351 note, 446, 448 seq., 453,
Elliott, Sir Frederick, committee-man                                             ; opinions of friends and
                                                            456 seq., 491
at Athenceum, 496                                                                 translations, 461 ; "ulti-
                                                            critics, 460;

Ellis, Mr., educationist, 123                                  mate questions,"   M4.8,21 I7
Emerson, Ralph Waldo : 232 seq. ;                           Fairbairn, Dr. A.
                                                            Faraday, Michael, attitude to Comtism,
opinion of Spencer, 150
Engineer's  "Jobuorvninael,
English :                      34                    314 ;      114
                             unintelligence,"
                                                            Fawcett, Henry, 297
too stupid to generalize, ib. ; national                    Fawcett, Mrs., 277
                                                            Felton, C. C., 101
   aggressiveness, 322, 328, 399 seq. (see                  Ferri, Prof. Enrico,              evolution  and so-
   a/so 387) ; Spencer's prestige in, 452 ;
   freedom, 539                                                cialism, 368
Equilibration, views of Tyndall and                         Ferry, Jules, French statesman, 20O, 582

   Spencer, 104 (v. 555)                                    Fetichism (see Animism)
Escrick Park, 217                                           F"igFailrioa,tioLne,
Essays (Spencer's collected), 84, 85, 1 12,                                        361, 584   viii., 413 (Appen-
                                                                                  of Ideas,"

    129,  226, 359, 43       F6un5d33,.  577  seq.,  454       dix   B., 533 sqq.)            sqq.,  105, 108,  121,
            Lecturers'                   416                        Principles : 101,
Ethical                                                     First                 20I >2I *              . 5775 second
                                                                                  559, 577               S. Mill's ap-
seq., 587                                                   M7.I53.    175.                   2      38
Ethical Movement, 455                                       edition,   147,                   5
                                                                                                     J-
Ethics : absolute, 59 ; genesis of moral                    preciation, 108 ; French translation,
                                                            153; Tyndall's criticisms, 175,428(1'.
sentiments, 148 seq. ; and religion,                        54dPre52hiv5c0iile)so,niso4;to4np5psah,odyssve,itqai4o.n,23nc675e77si7n;se;iqsfni.cnshca;ehplmehmreyiensevicoisafrfeoledSrlayseotnicmdotihientiteinottcenietcd,o,
227 ; highest aim of the beneficent,
            differentiation from religion,
324 ;       ideal or absolute, in political
324 ;
affairs,      330 seq. ; social evolution,
                  qualifications for teaching,
336 seq. ;   ;       Hector Macpherson on                   435'. ghost theory, 451 ; independence
416 sqq.                                                    of its two parts, 464 seq. (v. 201), 554;
Soencer's         work in, 519; conception
6oo Life of Herbert Spencer

   Hector Macpherson's criticism, 518                                                                 Gallon, Francis: 223, 282, 382, 384,
   sfq. t filiation of ideas in, 554 seq.
Fiske, John : 170 ; defence of Spencer in                                                                483 ; on Spencer's remarkable feat as
   Nation, 150 ; lectures at Harvard on                                                                  a boy, 13; reminiscences of Spencer,
   Spencer's philosophy, 156 ; proposes                                                                  501 seq., 508 seq. Lelter to, 396
   title "Cosmic Philosophy," 157 seq, ;                                                              Gambling, 327
   death, 452. Letters to, 157, 159, 357                                                              Garnett, Dr. Richard, 384
Fitch, Sir Joshua, letter     to, 455                                                                 Garrett, Mr., 230
Flower, Sir William H. ,      269, 271           ;  letter                                            Garrison, William Lloyd, junr., 342
                                                                                                      "Genesis of Science," 376, 545 seq.,
   to, 325
Folkestone, 273                                                                                          548, 559, S8o
                                                                                                      Geology : in scheme for Synthetic Philo-
Forbes, Prof. Edward, on Spencer's                                                                       sophy, 377, 425 sqq. ; age of solar
   theory of population, 64
"  Form of the Earth, &c.,"                425,                                                          syslem, 433 ; writings bearing on, 425
                                                 579                                                     sqq. ; age of the earth, 441 ; volcanic
Fortnightly Review, 119, 148, 189, 194,                                                                                     sqq; cooling of the
                                                                                                         eruptions,   439   ; a priori reasoning,
   216, 324, 363, 445, 489, 581 seq., 584                                                                earth, 441   sqq.

    sqq.                                                                                              "  549               Theorem," article by
                                                                                                         Geometrical
Forum, The, American magazine, 489
Foster, Sir Michael, 269, 271, 384                                                                       Spencer on, 26, 578
Fowler, Rev. Dr. Thomas, 484
Fox, Mr. (afterwards Sir) Charles, 22,                                                                George, Henry : Progress and Poverty,

   23, 43, 51                                                                                             218 ; meeting with, ib. ; repudiation
France : impressions of, 76 ; architecture                                                               of views, 229 ; policy of taxing out

   and decoration, ib. ; bellicose feeling                                                            GeAlramnPadenloryrpdles: ,xOerd2d9e9Pr h;"iloaPstootuaprchkeler,oMn3e3Sr6ipteesqn,"qc.e3r69in;

   in, '58, 86; events of 1870-71, 153 sqq. ;                                                             Spencer's last book, 461 ; subordina-
   social characteristics, 155; Spencer's
                                                                                                      " Gtioenrmt-oPlaasumthor"ityth, eo5r3y9, 348
   vSLiopeerwdnscedSri'asslcisuabsrustiercydle's,in36CB5h.aA;m."beparod, lditr1iec9s9aslsebaqun.rd-;
   glaries," 399 seq. ; Spencer's last book,                                                          Ghost-Theory, 356 sqq., 451, 568 note,

   461 ; Loubet's visit to England, 468 ;                                                                573

   Revolution, 569 (see also Academic                                                                 Gibbs, Walcott, 101
   des Sciences, and Paris)                                                                           Giddings, Prof. F., 570 note
                                                                                                      Giffen, Sir Robert,   Rle.t,te3r1s2,to3, 64552
Franchise : 325 ; educational qualifica-                                                              Gingell, Miss Julia                             seq.

   tion, 94 ; extension to women, 137 sqq,                                                            Giornale a" Italia,
Francis, John W., 101                                                                                 Gladslone, W. E.       463
Frankfort, Spencer's impression                of,                                                                          : correspondence          with,
Frankland, Prof, (afterwards                  Sir)  7E2 d-
                                                                                                         arising out of Study of Sociology, 162
   ward, 144,  193,             215, 384,     437                                                        seq., 339; amicable relations with
Fraser, Prof.                 Campbell         testimonial
               A.                          :                                                             Spencer, 163, 168, 193, 210,215, 346,
                                                                                                         414 ; Anti-Aggression League, 224 ;
   to Spencer, 90; letters to, 71, 74                                                                             from a correspondent,
fraser's Magazine, 84, 580                                                                               protest                                      254 ;
Free libraries, Spencer's views con-                                                                     opinion  of "From Freedom to                 Bon-

   cerning, 403                                                                                          dage," 302 ; on teslimonial to Spen-
Free Life, organ of individualism, 300                                                                   cer, 385 ; principle of authority
                                                                                                         universally operative, 490 seq.
   seq*                                                                                               Glover, Miss, 256
Free-Trade, 39, 42 (v. 54)                                                                            Goblet d' Alviella, Count, letters to, 312,
Freedom,    law  oAf .eqHu.al,C.5,39le, tt5e7r6to,
Fremantle,   W.                                     297                                                   366

F"reFrreo,mSiFrreBeadrotlme,  498                                                                     Goethe, J. W. von : Wilhelm Meister,
Froude, J. A. :                to Bondage," 302, 584.
                              193 ; on programme of                                                      53; Faust, 411

   synthetic philosophy, 97; "science                                                                 Golden Penny, 299
                                                                                                      Golder's   Green     CreWm.atoAri.u,m,co4m7p7iler
FFrroyou,fdSheiirst[EoWdrywill"aiarmrde]p:,u3d8"ia4tsek; dinarbgfyrui,mct5ei6on7nt ,a"ga5i5n7st       Goligher,     Prof.                                   of

   Weismann, 348 ; letters to, 348, 350,                                                                 Descriptive Sociology, 453 note
                                                                                                      Gomperz, Prof. Theodore (Vienna) : on
   422
Furness, Dr., IOI                                                                                        Plato's intellect and influence, 523 ;
                                                                                                         letter from, on Spencer's election to

                                                                                                          Imperial Academy,   369

                                                                                                      Goschen, W. E., 462
                                                                                                      "Gospel    of   RWeilllaiaxmatioRn.,,"o2n3s0pecialization
GALL, Dr., phrenologist,      537                                                                     Cowers,    Sir
Gallon, Sir Douglas, 384
                                                                                                         in science, 395
                                                                        Index                                                                                                                                  60 1

Graham, Prof., colloids and crystalloids,                                                                                                                          " Haythorne Papers," series of essays by

    556                         " Philosophy                            and                                                                                           Spencer,    65 seq., 72, 74,  543
                                                                                                                                                                   Heberden,                        of Brasenose,
Grant, Sir Alexander,                                                                                                                                                             C. B., Principal
   Mr. Darwin," 149
Grant, Miss Alice, painter of Spencer's                                                                                                                                485
    portrait,        nole
Grant, Dr.,    394   M.    E.,  193,                                                                                                                               Hegeler, B., 218 seq.
Grant-Duff,     205                                                                                                                                                Hegelianism : vogue in England, 457

                Sir                                                                                                                                                   seq., 488 ; last refuge of the orthodox,

Gray, Prof. Asa, 101, 169             384                                                                                                                          458
                                                                                                                                                                   Helmholtz, H. L. F. von, on heat
Great Central Railway, opposition                                                                            to                                                       evolved in solar condensation,
   London extension, 314                                                                                                                                                                                  432
                                                                                                                                                                   Hemming, Mr., 193
Great-man theory, Mr. Mallock's criti-                                                                                                                             Hemus, foreign origin of family named, I
   cism of Spencer, 407 sqq
"  Great Political Superstition,"           243                                                                                                                    Hemus, Elizabeth, Spencer's ancestor, 2
                                                                                                                                                                   Hennell, Miss Sara, 54
Greater Britain, 328                                                                                                                                               Hennezel, or Henzu, Thomas and
Greeks, Descriptive Sociology, 453 note
Greeley, Horace, 101                                                                                                                                                  Balthazar de, immigrants named, I
GGGGGGrrrrrreeeeeeegeeeen,nnnn,ww,, WiocPMUohr.drno,s,fi..tRaS.JFrTp.ir:ea.enRnodHc.ne,ep.rr,ui4'Sscb0p2kl5e1i,ps2nhl3aces3enrq1r,'qfso.,5r4p4d1oa3pmulaatti,o6n3  Henslow, Rev. Prof. George, argument
                                                                                                                                                                      against Weismann, 348
                                                                                                                                                                   Henzey, foreign origin of family            so

                                                                                                                                                                      named, I
                                                                                                                                                                   Herald, New York, 226
                                                                                                                                                                   Herbert, Hon. Auberon : 308, 462 ; urged
   theory, 64 ; election to Athenaeum Club,                                                                                                                           to write on social questions, 355 ; in-
                                                                                                                                                                      dividualistic propaganda, 300 sqq. ;
   494                                                                                                                                                                scheme for better ventilation of houses,
Grey, Sir George, 237, 254
Grimthorpe,     Lord (Sir Ed.                                                                                                                                      303 ; Herbert Spencer, Lecturer, 483.
Grose, Rev.    T. H., 485           Beckett).                           239                                                                                        Letters        to, 247,
                                                                                                                                                                   Herbert        Spencer   300 sqq., 303, 355
Grote, George, 67 ; testimonial to                                                                                                                                                          on American Nervous-
                                                                                                                                                                       ness," 230
   Spencer, 90                                                                                                                                                     Herbert Spencer on the Americans, <&V.,
Ground,  SSiRrireGvW.eoiWrllgia.e,mD3.8,4Rc.,ritiCco, rr2e5la1tiosenq.
                                                                                                                                                                   226
Grove,
Grove,                                                                  of                                                                                         Heredity: use-inheritance, 269 seq., 343,
                                                                                                                                                                   460; interbreeding of unlike races, 322
   Physical Forces, 550                                                                                                                                               seq. ; limitation by sex, 396
Grundyometers, ladies consulted by                                                                                                                                 Herkomer, Sir Hubert von,              R.A.,
GGUuSnlplt,heenSrci,er rWAlbailslei,artm3C1, 1. 49L7. G., 384
Guthrie, Rev. Malcolm, critic, 201, 210                                                                                                                            painter of subscription portrait of
                                                                                                                                                                   Spencer, 387, 389 sqq. Letters to,
                                                                                                                                                                       391, 392

                                                                                                                                                                   Herschel, Sir John : on programme of
                                                                                                                                                                   Synthetic Philosophy, 97 ; Comtism,
HALDANE, Right       Hon.       R.  B.,  485                                                                                                                       113; aids reorganization of Reader,
Hales, E. E., 101                                                                                                                                                  117; nebular hypothesis, 425, 591
Halle, Sir Charles, 494
Hamilton,  Rev. Dr. D., 485                                                                                                                                           seq. ; theory of the      sun, 552
Hamilton,  Lady Claud, 214                                                                                                                                         Hen wig, Prof., 349
                                                                                                                                                                   Hey worth, Lawrence, M. P., 46, 54, 309
Hamilton, Gail, The Insuppressible Book,                                                                                                                           Highgate Cemetery : George Eliot's
                                                                                                                                                                   funeral, 214 seq.; Spencer's tomb,
   266

Hamilton,  J. McLure, 373           letter    from,                                                                                                                Hi4ll8,2Dr. Alex, Master of Downing, Cam-
Hamilton,
            Sir William,
HHHaaan"rroTrpiteshaorue,nx,,MUFrnG.r,iev.d,e2er0Fsr9iracelnc: Pho19sMt3u,ilna1its9et4,e", r,2873739,9 384,
                                                                                                                                                                      bridge, 485               Somersetshire :
                                                                                                                                                                   Hillard, George S., 101
                                                                                                                                                                   Hinton Charterhouse,

        ; controversies     with Spencer,                                                                                                                          Spencer's life at, 12 sqq., 35 ; library,
        sqq., 261 sqq.       letters to, 263
483                      ;                    245,                                                                                                                     279   Dr.  T.   Archer,  166, 305, 331
254                                           seq.,
                                                                                                                                                                   Hirst,

    324, 466    E., 384                                                                                                                                            History : futility of, 62 (v. 401) ; science
                                                                                                                                                                   of, repudiated by leading writers, 567
Harting, James
Hartog, Prof. Marcus, correspondence                                                                                                                               Hobbes, Thomas : Spencer's knowledge
   on biological matters, 349, 352, 397                                                                                                                            of his writings, 418; saying quoted,
Harvard University, John Fiske's lec-
                                                                                                                                                                   490
                                                                                                                                                                   Elobhouse, Lord : 384, 484 ; a greeting
    tures, 156                                                                                                                                                        from,
                                                                                                                                                                   Hodge,    458  H.,
Hawke, John, Anti-gambling League,
letter to, 327                                                                                                                                                               F.
                                                                                                                                                                                       101
6O2 Life of Herbert Spencer

Hodgson, Richard,   junr. : 212 seq, ;                             House of Commons : power of, 240 ;
   letter to, 228                                                  HHoopwwhaeilorlldsso,, pGhWeer.osrgDea.,,faMSilup. rePen.,cien2r,3's924o1pinion of,

Hodgson, Shadworth, 384
Hoffding, Prof. Harold : Danish trans-
lator, 291 ; correspondence concerning
correlation of mind and body, 178                                  Howitt,   William and  Mary, 54
#                                                                  Hudson,      William   Henry, Spencer's

Iloguet,   M., 475                                                 secretary   :   24"6   ; book    on                StRuoduyss"eauo,f
Holland,      Sir                                                  465 seq.     ;        Character
                    Henry,  testimonial                   to
                                                                   Spencer, 489 ; reminiscences,                          504 ;
   Spencer, 90                                                     letters to, 313, 466
Holme, Charles: 205; last visit to                                 Huggins, Sir William, 384, 437

Spencer, 476 ; executorship, 477 ;                                 Hughes,   Miss Edith,  365
   letter                                                          Hughes,   W. R., 231
Holme,     to, 378  of Derby  :  205 ; saves
           George,                                                 Huguenots, settlement at Stourbridge,

Spencer's life when a bey, 10, 177 ;                               I (v. 6)
his gratitude, 10 ; portrait sketch, 34 ;
death, 378 ; Spencer's tribute, //>. ;                             Humanity : true theory how derived, 62 ;
                                                                   organic badness, 301 ; irrationality,
letter to, 177                                                     366 seq., 450; lack of critical faculty,
Holmes, Jane, n&e Brettell, Spencer's
                                                                   372
grandmother, 2
                                                                     Humanity, Religion of (see Comte)
Holmes, John, Spencer's grandfather, 2                             i Humboldt, Koitnos, 53
HHoollmt,esH, enOrlyiv, eArmWereicnadnellp, u2b7l9isher,           I Hume, David, 516, 517, 578
Holt, Richard, of Liverpool, 195,                         150      I Humphrey  CHlionlkmera,n,50e4lection
Holt, Mrs. Richard (nee Potter),                          225                                                         to  Athe-
                                                          letters    Hunt, W.

to, 172, 186                                                          nreuin, 494 seq.
                                                                   HHuutttho,nM, rR.,ich1a9r3d H. : attack on Social
Holyoake, George Jacob: 100; Spencer's
   appreciation of, 468. Letters to, 358,                          Statics, 59; Spencer's ethical views, 148

464                                                                Huxley,   Leonard,      Life  and Letters              of
                                                                      T. H.  Huxley,
Homer, real creed of Christians derived                                                  101

from, 400                                                          Huxley, Prof. T. H. : on Spencer's boy-

Home Rule, 247, 300, 315, 325                                      hood, 12; friendship initiated, 64 seq.,
Honorary degrees (see Titles and Appen-                            543 ; introduces Spencer to Tyndall,
                                                                   65 ; friendly relations and intercourse,
   dix D, 558)
Hooker, Sir Joseph Dalton : 83, 194 ;
   consulted by Spencer, 89, 101, 123,                             78, 83, 85, i66sey., 192 sqq., 237, 239,
                                                                   324 ; gives Spencer advice and criti-
124 ; testimonial to Spencer, 90 seq. ;                            cism, 81, 83, 101, 123 seq. t 131, 144,
opinion of Spencer's researches in                                 2Y5e2ars'esq.d, in26n6ersse, q.8, 32, 6923s9qq.;,   275 ; New
plant circulation, 151 ; use inheritance,                                                                             controversy
269 ; the Huxley-Spencer controversy,
331 seq. ; transmits address of con-                               with Owen, 87 ; testimonial to Spen-
gratulation to Spencer, 382, 384 ;                                 cer, 91, 513 ; attitude to Comtism,
bond of friendship, 456, 470 : dissent                             113 ; reorganization of          Reader,                117;
from Spencer's view of South African                               spontaneous generation,            145;
                                                                                                                          "Ad-
                                                                   ministrative Nihilism," 150; Inter-
War, 460.
 Letters to : asking testimonial, 89 ;                             national Scientific Series, 159, 187;
   reason for seeking foreign consul-                              Belfast lecture, 172; George Eliot's

ship, 91 ; refusal to accept subscrip-                             funeral, 214; jocose reference to
tion, 101 ; reasons for not joining                                photograph of Spencer, 215 ; Darwin's
                                                                   funeral, 223       President Royal Society,
Royal Society, 168 sqq. ; address of                               236 ; views     ;
                                                                                      on heredity, 269 seq. ;
 congratulation, 386 ; subscription                                reads proofs of Spencer's Auto-
 portrait, 387, 390, 391 ; personal,                                                             to W.                    "LiTllhye,
 456, 470                                                          biography, 275 ; reply                             S.
Letters from : on drawbacks of a                                   276 ; State-education,            277
                                                                                                                      ;
 foreign consulship, 89 ; X - Club
                                                                   Struggle for Existence in Human
 remnant, 470                                                      Society," 280; combativeness, 282;

Hopkinson, Dr. A., Vice-Chancellor,                                banter, ib. t 502; house-building at
                                                                   Eastbourne,
   Victoria University, 485                                        sqq., 466 ;     Ro2m90an; eslanlde-cqtuuerest,ion",      330

Hopps, Rev. J. Page, letter to, declining                                                                                 Evo-
                                                                   lution and Ethics," 336 ; death, 370 ;
   invitation to stand for Leicester, 240                          age of the Earth, 432, 441 ; alleged
Houghton, Lord [Monckton-Milnes],                                  influence of Rousseau on Spencer, 466 ;
                                                                   saying about Spencer's deductive bent,
346
                                            Index

   502    ofertahreyocroymipnossictiioenn,tifi5c03re; soenartchhe,   370 (v. 588) ; translations, 461 ; official
   value                                                                condolences    on his  death, 482
                                                                     Ito, Count        (now    Marquis)
   513; early discussion on development                                                                     Japanese
   question recalled, 543; hatred of de-
   ductive reasoning, 549.                                           statesman, 292, 320, 321, 323
    Letters to : introductory, 65 ; Psy-
      chology, and congratulations on mar-                           JACKSON, Rev.          B. W., Oxford,   485
                                                                     Jackson, G. B.         W. (Spencer's   engineer-
                                                                     ing colleague), 52, 62; letters from,
   riage,  78 ; foreign consulship,         91 ;
           Principles, 101 ; loss of                                     34, 35        H., Cambiidge,
   First                                    his                                        Hughlings, 227,
                                                                     Jackson,
   son, ib. ; plans for keeping the philo-                           Jackson,     Dr.                   485
   sophy going, 127; a publi-her's indis-                                         Dr.                   384
   cretion, 228 ;  X-oCnlu"b
   249; criticism               frivolity,  &c.,                     Jacob, Colonel, Chief Commissioner       in
                              Factors of     Or-
   ganic Evolution," 270, ib., seq.: sug-                                Scinde, and Social Statics, 86
           yachting cruise, 273 ; reply to
   gested  276; death of his daughter,                               Janes, Dr. L. G., 342, 452
                                                                     Janet, of French Institute, 173
   Lilly,                                                            Japan : Spencer consulted about political
   280 ; London dissipations, 282 ;
    house building, 290 ; reconciliation                                affairs, 161, 293, 318 Jf0. ; works trans-
    after estrangement, 337 ; Lord Salis-                                lated, 231, 461 note
    bury's Address, 364; age of the                                  Japp, Prof., address to Chemical Section
    Earth, 441                                                          of B. As., 398
   Letters from : X-Club frivolity, 249 ;                            Jaws, disuse and heredity, 344 sqq.
    use - inheritance, 270 ; Spencer's                               jersey, 75
                                                                     Jesuits, circulate story of Spencer's con-
   Autobiography, 275 ; reconciliation,                                  version, 298 note
   337; Lord Salisbury's Address, 364;                               Jeune, Mrs. [Lady St. Helier], 218
   Lord Kelvin and the age of the                                    Jevons, S., 226
       Earth, 441
                                                                     Johnson, Rev. (Brooklyn, N. Y.), 278
Huxley, Mrs. T. H. : 100, 210; on                                    Jones, Prof. T. Rymer, 540
   Boehm's bust of Spencer, 244 ; letter                             Jones, Sir William, writings unknown to
   to, 370
Hymns for Infant Minds, Spencer's                                        Spencer, 398 seq.
   text-book as a child, 9                                           Jose, Mrs., 279, 310

LIDibEeArtLISM[S,irG],ermCaonu, rtinneyE,nglancdom, p4a5r7atsiveqe.  Journal of Education, 259
   legislation, 360                                                  Jowett, Benjamin, 102
"  Illogical Geology,"  95,   426,  553,  581
                                                                     Judd, Prof. J. W., correspondence on

                                                                         volcanic phenomena, 438 sqq.
                                                                     Judge, Mark, letter to, 422
                                                                     Justice, gratuitous administration, 242,

Imperialism, 328                                                         360 seq  "         IV. of Spencer's  Prin-
India : early marriages, 296 ; its con-                                              [Part
                                                                     "Justice
   quest, an example to Japan, 321 ;                                 ciples of Ethics}, 304, 308, 342
   Eurasians, 322 ; requests received by
   Spencer from, 447 ; Spencer's Educa-                              KANAKAS, in Queensland, 326
   tion translated, 461 note.                                        Kaneko, Baron Kentaro, Japanese
Individualism, does not mean individual
                                                                     statesman, 292, 318 sqq. Lelters to,
   isolation, 354 (see Social State)                                 conservative policy fur Japan, 319;
Industrial Freedom League, 468                                       on Japanese policy with regard to
"Industrial Institutions" [division of
                                                                        foreigners, 321
   Principles of Sociology}, 380, 573 sqq.                           Kant, Immanuel : philosophy, 228 seq.
Inorganic evolution, omitted division of
                                                                        455 ; Spencer's knowledge of his writ-
   Spencer's philosophy, 377, 424 sqq. ;                                ings, 418 ; principle of individual
   writings bearing thereon, 425 sqq.                                   action, 539
Insuppressiblt Book, The, 266                                        Karnak, 206
                                                                     Keatinge, M. W., letter to, 404
Inter-breeding between divergent species                             Kelvin, Lord (Sir Wm. Thomson) :

    322 seq.                                                         metric system, 379 ; method of reason-
                                                                     ing, 396 ; age of the earth and solar
International Arbitration Co-operative

   Society, 223                                                      system, 432 seq., 441, 442 ; cosmic
International Scientific Series, 158 J</.,                           evolution, 437 ; rigidity of earth's

    187                                                              interior, 438 ; letter to, 437
Inventiveness, implies self-confidence, 491                          Kershaw, John, Derby, 7
                                                                     Key, Miss Lilian,
Ireland : 368 ; obstructive tactics of Irish                         Killick, Miss Edith    407     ;  reminiscences
   Party, 315 {sec also Home Rule)                                                           : 407
                                                                     of Spencer, 476, 497, 500, 505 seq.
Italy : Spencer's visit to, 142 ; honorary
   degrees conferred on him, 194, 291,
604 Life of Herbert Spencer

Kimberley, Earl of, 219                                                                                               Leader [extinct periodical], 58, 64, 65,
Kingsley, Rev. Charles : on programme                                                                                     72, 74, 545, 579 seq.
KKiirrotckifohnShyoIonrffetfh,t"eoGtnsi.cc, ieRnPD.hc,eeilr4obo4syof5sp,hhhii5sry5et,o2, ry9,7"re;c5or6er7dpsudiao-f
                                                                                                                      League of Liberals against Aggression,

                                                                                                                      449
                                                                                                                      Lear, Edward, composer of music to
                                                                                                                                     Ho"nF.arWew. eEl.l,"H.30:9
   Spencer     family in parish register,  3                                                                             Tennyson's                                          note  384,
Kirkman,                                                                                                              Lecky, Rt.                                            215,
               Rev. T., 188, 21 1
Knight, Charles, publisher, 6l                                                                                        406 ; on Spencer's ethical writings,
                                                                                                                          198 ; death, 474                           character, 475
                                                                                                                                                  ; high             : 210, 215 ;
Knight, Prof. William, 384 ; article in                                                                               Lec"kGyr,unMdyrosm. eWte.r  "E.   H.           Spencer, 311
   Bookman, 452
Knowledge, society for the repeal of                                                                                                                   to

                                                                                                                      seq. Letters to, 312, 475
   taxes on, 67                                                                                                       Lefevre, G. Shaw (Lord Eversley), 475
Knowles, Herbert, poet, Spencer named                                                                                 Leicester, Spencer asked to become Par-

   after, 7                                                                                                              liamentary candidate, 240 seq.
Knowles, [Sir] James, Editor of Nine-                                                                                 Leith Vale, Ockley, Surrey, 462, 465
   teenth Century, 209, 253, 400 sqq,                                                                                 Lewes, George Henry: 66, 71 seq., 126,
Krakatau, volcanic eruption, 438 seq.
Krishnavarma, Shyamaji, founder of                                                                                        137, 192 sqq., 541 sqq., 553 ; first
Herbert Spencer Lectureship, Oxford,                                                                                     meeting, 63, 541 ; his versatility and
                                                                                                                         appearance, ib. ; Spencer introduces
483                                                                                                                      Miss Evans to, 64 ; misunderstand-
                                                                                                                         ing with, 64 seq. ; chaffs Spencer
LACAZE-DUTHIER, origin of annulose                                                                                      about wood- chopping, 80; Biographi-
                                                                                                                      cal History of Philosophy, 131, 418,
   type, 561                                                                                                          542; death, 196; literary composition,
Lace Manufacture, Spencer's        father's
                                                                                                                      503 ; scientific interest awakened by
   connection with, 4, 8                                                                                              Spencer, 542 ; introduction to Huxley,
Laidlawstiel, 200                                                                                                     543 ; literary editor of Leader, ib. ', ex-

Laissez-faire, current conception, 161                                                                                   plains Comte's ideas            to Spencer,
Lamarck, heredity, 269
Land Nationalisation Society, 218                                                                                     Lewes, Mrs. (" George              Eliot," q.v.)      545

Land question : 58, 247 ; Spencer's                                                                                   Lewis, Sir G. Cornewall, editor of
                                                                                                                         Edinburgh Review, 69
change of      invieDwas,ily32C7h, ro3n2i9cles,qq3.5, 9398                        ;                                   Liberalism : 224, 243, 302, 312, 468 ;
discussion
Land Restoration League, 342                                                                                             socialistic tendencies, 449
Landlords : interests of, unduly considered                                                                           Liberal Unionism : merged in Toryism,

in leases, 292 ; H. George's policy of                                                                                   450
taxing, 299 ; operation of short-lease                                                                                Liberty: the idea and sentiment, 355;
                                                                                                                         result of removal of restraints, 368
system, 304 ; rating of small tene-                                                                                   Liberty and Property Defence League,
ments, ib.
Lang, Andrew : 384 ; The Making of                                                                                       242, 299^,7., 338
Religion, 409 ; on bores, 447 ; Letters                                                                               Libraries, see Free libraries
                                                                                                                      Lieber, Francis, 101
   to,  Ghost  Theory, 356  seq.                                                                                      Lifeele: mgeonstpeiln,ofibr.el;axaattihoinn,g
Lang,   Very                      Aberdeen,                                                                                                                          230;   aesthetic
               Rev. Dr. J.  H.,                                                                                                                                       or a  process,

    485                                                                                                                   371 ; ultimate mystery, 398 ; com-
                                                                                                                         mencement of, on the Earth, 443 seq. ;
Lankester, Prof. [Sir] E. Ray, 196, 343,                                                                                 conception of, as individuation, 541 ;
                                                                                                                          co-ordination of actions, 543, 546
    382, 384                                                                                                          Life, the Science of (see Biology)
Lansdowne, Marquess of, 482
                                                                                                                      Lilly, W. S., 276, 344
Lardner, Dr. S., 26                                                                                                   Limburg Stirum, Count (executor of
Latham, Dr. R. G., testimonial to Spen-
   cer, 90
Laugel [Auguste], writer in Revue des                                                                                 Auguste Comte), pecuniary help de-
   Deux Mondes,
Lavallie, M. 197  113                                                                                                 clined by Spencer, 126

Laveleye, Emile de, 245, 366. Letter                                                                                  Linguistic culture, based on authority,

from, 245                                                                                                             534
Law, gratuitous interpretation of, 360                                                                                Linnean Society, Spencer's paper on

    teq.                                                                                                                 plant circulation,        124,  ;58"1Grundyome-
                                                                                                                      Linton, Lynn, Mrs.
Law of Equal Freedom (see Social State)                                                                                                            : 54   article on Prof.
Law of Organic Symmetry, 542, 553, 561                                                                                   ter" to Spencer,         311 ;
                                                                                                                      Drummond, 363 ; Letters to, 363, 405
"LLaaLwwarlewenysc,e,oMfrS.OirargnTadrneiLcvaodr,yFo3C8rom4n,s"tanceess, ay198by                                      Literature : patronage and talent, 40 ;
                                                                                                                         concentration of feeling and idea, 411
Spencer. 87, 580                                                                                                      Literature (weekly review), 407 seq. , 586
                                                Index                                                                       605

Littleton, Hon. S , 197                                    Loubet, M., French President, visit to
Littre, E. (editor of La Philosophic                          England, 468
   Positive), 155
Liveing, Prof. G. D., 485                                  Lowell, J. Russell, 101, 209
Liverpool University, proposal for chair
                                                           Lubbock, Sir John (now Lord Avebury),
of sociology, 211                                             109, 477, 484 ; Letter from, 456
Loch, Lord, 422
Locke, John, Spencer's knowledge of                        Lushington, Vernon, Q.C., 384
                                                           Lyell, Sir Charles, 66, 102, 117, 536,
                                                           553 ; on programme of Synthetic
   his writings, 418                                       LyePnshnsia,loysWoop.nhTy",.,Nae9sb7siustlsar
                                                           Lytton, Sir E. Bulwer                          Spencer in revising
Lockyer, Sir J. Norman : 222, 384 ; con-                                                                   Hypothesis," 437
                                                                                                            [Lord] : on Spen-
   versation with, on spectrum, 434 ;                      cer's views on education, 60 ; offended
   Letter to, 345
Lo-Feng-Luh, Sir Chih Chen, Chinese                        by Spencer's condemnation of Afghan
   Minister, opinion of Spencer, 419                       war, 399
Logic : uselessness of formal, 418 ; an
   objective science, 548
London : Spencer's plans for pure water
supply, 63 ; dryness of air, 95 ; move-
ment for resisting municipal encroach-                     MACAULAY, Lord : Spencer on style of,

   ments, 299, 302, 313, 339                               61
London and Birmingham Railway (after-
                                                           Me duress Magazine, 375
   wards London and North Western                          McCosh, Dr., 246
                                                           Machinery, outcry against,
Railway), Spencer's engineering work                                                                           37, 94
on, 22                                                     MMa'LceMnanhaonn, ,J.P.F.A,.,18F9.R.S.,              384
London County Council, Spencer pro-
   posed as Alderman, 313                                  Macmillan's Magazine, 238, 432, 581
London Liberty Club, 277                                   Macpherson,   Hector : 419                                book on
London Library, Spencer's connection                          Spencer,  414 ; offered                          ;  "  Reminis-

with, 496                                                  cences of Herbert Spencer" by a lady,
                                                           ib. ; review of Spencer's position as a
London Ratepayers' Defence League,                         thinker, 515^^. .Letters to: Carlyle,

   302, 313 sty., 339                                      "37R8 e;mpinriospcoesnecdes  book on Spencer, 379                 ;
London Review, 116                                                                        of Herbert Spencer,'

London School of Economics, 403                            4H        LRaDeuvrr..ieD,J.rl.etJPt.e.r,Rt.o,c,o4m4875p4ilation
London University, honorary degree                         Magnus,
"LoofrfedreSdaltisobuSrpyenocnerE, vo4l6u7tion," 365, 586  Magrath,
                                                           Mahaffy,                                                         of

Longevicy, proposed enquiry, 396                              Descriptive Sociology, Greeks, 453
Lothian, Lady, 198                                             note
Lott, Edward : Spencer's portrait sketch
                                                           Mail and Express, New York News-
of, 34 ; remonstrates with Spencer on
excessive language, 49 ; on Spencer's                      Mapianpee,r,Si3r06Henry S., election to French

favour with women, 55 ; objections to                         Academy, 232 seq.                           M.,  letter  to,  on
Social Statics, 59 ; Spencer's com-                        Malabari, Behramji
panion on excursions and travels, 71                                          in India, 296
seq., 78, 109, 116, 146, 193, 219, 225 ;                      early marriage  : criticism on
illness and death, 273 seq. ; Spencer's                                                                           Spencer's
                                                           Ma) lock, W. H.

Laepttperrescitaotio: n"  of, 275                          sociological ideas, 407 sqq. ; letter to,
                          Proper
                                   Sphere  of   Govern-        407.
ment," 41 ; Wilson, editor of Pilot,
                                                           Man versus The State, 244, 245, 308,

48 ; Shelley,             ;53C;arGlyolee'tshe,    Wilhclm      334
Meisler, ib.                                    Cromwell,
ib. ; Dickens' Christmas Tale, ib. ;                       Manchester, Sheffield and Lincolnshire
history and evolution, 62 ; Alex.                             Railway, London extension, 314

                                                           "Manners and Fashion," 72, 74, 129,

Smith, Scotch poet, 66 ; impres-                               544. 58o
sions of France, 76 ; Darwin's                             Marble, Manton, 156, 288
Origin of Species, 98 ; political events
                                                           Mariette  HB.e,y,202605
                                                           Marion,
                                                           Markham, Sir C. R., election to Athen-
[general election], 207 ; holiday
movements, 216 ; a plan frustrated,
                                                               aeum, 494 seq.
       249 ; last good-bye, 273                            Marriage : suggested to Spencer as a
Lott, Francis Edward: Spencer's execu-
                                                              cure for his ailments, 80 ; reasons for
    tor, 477 ; reminiscences, 497, 505.                       opposing native usages in India, 296 ;
   Letter from, 73                                            between Europeans and Orientals,

Lott, Miss (" Phy"), 249, 256, 273                         320, 322 seq.
6o.6 Life of Herbert Spencer

Marsh, Prof. [O. C.], 194                                 Miers, Prof. Henry A., 485
Marshall,          Prof. A., 485                          Milan, 206
Martello,          Tullio (Bologna                        Miles, Mr., 205
                                             University)  Militancy : growth in teaching institu-

291                                                          tions, 454 ; factor in social evolution,

Martial Law, 451                                             569 sqq.
Martineau, Harriet: translation of Comte.                 MMiillilt,ia,Joh54n
72, 545; refusal of pension, 290
Martineau,         Rev. Dr.                  384; criti-     Spencer's         Stuart : 60,              ; "oUpinniivoenrsaol f
   cism of         Spencer's    Jafmiresst:  Principles,                       Psychology,         544
                                                                                                   81 ;
105, 160, 280 j Types of Ethical
                                                             Postulate," 82, 418 ; consulted by
                                                             Spencer about official appointment,
    Theory, 245                                              88 ; his testimonial, 90 ; ultimate test of
Masson, Dr. David : 64, 69, 72, 95, 96,                      truth, 119 sqq., 544 ; interest in Spen-
                                                             cer's success, 126 ; recommends French
138, 215, 282, 384 ; introduces writer
to Spencer, 141 ; suggestion for criti-                      translator to Spencer, 129; death, and
que of synthetic philosophy by, 400                        Spencer's obituary notice, 167, 582 ; his
seq. ; election to Athenaeum, 494 :                        educational standard, 417 ; Logic, 418,
opinion of Spencer's last book, 460.                       544 ; omitted divisions of Spencer's
   Letters to, 401, 458                                    programme, 424 ; on philosophy in
Mastication, Spencer's admonition to a                     England, 515 ; Hector Macpherson
   friend, 415                                             on his philosophic system, 516 seq. ;
Materialism repudiated by Spencer, 81                      utilitarianism, 519
                                                          Letters to, 108 ; acknowledgment of
Mathematicians: lack of judgment, 395 ;
   defects in reasoning, 396, 441 ; weight
   attached to conclusions of, 441
Mathematics, appeal to private judg-                         sympathy, 88 ; liberty, 93 ; parlia-
                                                             mentary reform, the franchise, &c. ,
   ment, 534                                                 94; Principles of Psychology, 115;
Mather, Mr., schoolmaster, of Derby, 9,
                                                             the conduct of The Reader, 117,119 ;

21                                                             political rights of women, 137 sqq.
Matheson, Rev. George, D.D., Can the                      Letters from : utilitarianism, 108 ;
Old Faith livt with the New ? 252                            Comte, &c., 114; aggressiveness of
Matin, Le, 468
Maudsley, Dr.      H., derivation            of doc-         The Reader, 118; ultimate test of

   trines in Physiology and Pathology of                     truth, 119, 122; Spencer's Biology,
   the Mind, 140, 143
Maxwell, Prof. J. Clerk, correspondence                            152  (v.    J2.56E, .,51347)3,  386

                                                          Millais,      Sir
                                                          Miller, Hugh,
concerning Spencer's physical specu-                      Milman, Dean,        553
                                                                                67
lations, 428 sqq.                                         Milne-Edwards, [Henri], 365, 542, 546,

Mechanic's Magazine, 26                                      570 note

Medical men: neglect of physics, 96;                      Milnes, Monckton [Lord Houghton,

legislative policy, 153; Spencer's scep-                     q.v.}

    tical attitude to, 469                                Mind: 173, 188, 189, 195, 201, 212, 295,
Medical Times and Gazette, 227
Meinerizhagen, Mrs. (nee Potter), 205,                       539, 582 sqq. ; change of control and

   306,311,317,394. Letter to, 317                           policy, 457 seq.
Melbourne, Victoria, Spencerian Society,                  Minghetti, Sgr., 197
                                                          Minturn, R. B. (New York), 128
    463            Raphael,             F.R.S.:  385;     Mitchell, Dr. Chalmers, 347                                186
                                                          Mitchell, Mrs., of Laidlawstiel,
Meldola, Prof.

proposed memorial to Spencer in                              (v. 201)
                                                          Mitchinson,
Westminster Abbey, 483 ; the Dean's                                            Canon J., 485
reply, 486; on the philosophic faculty                    Mivart, Prof. St. George, 165, 173, 188
in scientific research, 514
M" eMneanbtraela,    Marquis,                             Monro, Dr. D. B., Oxford, 485
                   Evolution,"  184     582               Moorsom, Captain C. E. : Spencer's en-
                                  149,                       gineering chief, 23, 24 ; his opinion of

Mentone, 197       W.           W.,     485                  Spencer quoted, 28 ; domestic life
Merry, Rev. Dr.                                              with, 30 seq. , endeavours to check
Mesnil, M. du, 365
Metaphysical Society, 145                                    Spencer's philosophic propensity, ib. ;
                                                             letter to, 30; letters to his niece, 35,
Methodist Register Office, Spencer's
   birth and baptism entered at, 7                           38
Metric System, Spencer's opposition to,                   "                         essay               on, 93  (v.  87),
                                                             Morals of Trade,"

    379. 413                                              Mordan, A., Reigate, 374
                                                          Morell [Dr. J. D.], 81
Miall, C. S,, 38, 42, 45, 58
Midland Naturalist, 231
                                          Index                                                                                                                                                                                    607

Morgan, Dr. C. Lloyd : 385, 485 ; on                                                                                                                 N"""NeNNweeewwwEnTFVgooilerarymwnidsmeoorff,,"tVh1i2e1a32d9Fuucntc,"tio3n4s,  578
MoSrpi,enVceisrc'souinntflueAnrcien,or5i,14 Japanese dip-
   lomat, 161, 319                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of Imita-

Morley, Rt. Hon. John : Life of Cobden                                                                                                                  tion and  Benevolence," 45,          49, 537,                               579
   quoted, 32; meetings with, 192 set/.,                                                                                                             New York     : Twilight Club,             230 ;                               pro-

   215, 381; Newcastle election, 329;                                                                                                                   posed sociological society,          23 1
address of congratulation to Spencer,                                                                                                                Neiv York Saturday, 460
                                                                                                                                                     New York Times, 293, 294
382, 385 ; correspondence with Spen-                                                                                                                 New Zealand :            S2p3e7n;ce"r'sRebliogoiokuss
cer relating to obsequies, 472 sqq., 477                                                                                                                not acted on,                                                              read but
                                                                                                                                                        spect, &c." 254                                                              Retro-
seq. ; Life of Gladstone quoted, 490

seq. Letter to, martial law in South
Africa, 451                                                                                                                                          Newcombe, Mr., 68 seq.
Morley, Samuel, M. P., 60, 224
Morning Leader,                                                                                                                                      Newspapers : provincial, 207 ; examples
Mosse, James C.     E42.2,  seq., 587   Spencer                                                                                                         of perversions, 299 ; Americanized
                                                                                                                                                        editing, 301 ; South Afiican War, 422
                            opinion of
                                                                                                                                                     Newton, Sir Isaac, Principia, 75
as engineering colleague, 23                                                                                                                         Newman, Francis W., on programme of
Mottisfont, 306
Moulton   M[Srisr.,J.adFvliectechteor]S, pe1n6c5e, r'2s11f,at4h3e6r                                                                                      Synthetic Philosophy, 97
Mozley,                                                                                                                                              Nineteenth Century, 249, 253, sqq., 258,
   to join the Church, 8
MMMMMouuuuzirnsrclheiihcceyi:isa,podanR,tl,hieteivDeoS.rrsiy.T,r .J,obRouhfR.,sneionm5re5Hiis3gn.sii,nsc,e4en8n5t8ce4erps;,ris2ne4es5e,,dl45e68s83s     271 seq., 280, 333, 400 sqq., 409, 583

                                                                                                                                                         sqq.

                                                                                                                                                     Nobel Prize, nomination of Spencer for,

                                                                                                                                                        456, 475

                                                                                                                                                     Nonconformist, 35,36, 38, 40, 55, 58, 81,
                                                                                                                                                                              and Independent, 583
   expansion, 411                                                                                                                                       537, 578 seq.;
Murray, John, 302                                                                                                                                    Nonconformity, relations of Spencer and
Mystery, the ultimate, 371, 378, 491                                                                                                                    his family to, 2, 3, 6, 42, 202
Mysteries, mediaeval, 412, 491
                                                                                                                                                     North American Review, 116, 144^.,

NAUEN, Constance, Spencer's charac-                                                                                                                      198
   terization, 295 seq.
Napoleon, Louis, altitude to England,                                                                                                                North British Review, 59, 69, 71 seq.,

                                                                                                                                                         75 544, 5 8

                                                                                                                                                     "Northern Lights," Lancashire poem,

86                                                                                                                                                       497
                                                                                                                                                     Northumberland Society for the Libera-
Nation (American journal), 150, 294
National                                                                                                                                                tion of Education from State Control,
National
          Portrait    Gallery, 373 seq.,  382                                                                                                            465
          Public    School Association,    60                                                                                                        Nottingham, 9
National  Review, 8l,                                                                                                                                Nurses: certificaiion of, 315; Spencer's
National                    83, 105, 255, 580
          Temperance        Chronicle, 68, 579                                                                                                          prejudice against professional, 469
Native Races, aggressions by civilized
nations, 399 seq., 410
Natural Science, 397, 586                                                                                                                            OLBERS, H. G. M., 552
Natural Selection : 269 ; the question of                                                                                                            Odger, Mr., 297
acquired characters, 343 sqq. ; Lord
Salisbury's view, 364 ; partially recog-                                                                                                             Oldswinford, 2

nized in Social Statics, 540 ; factor in                                                                                                             OOprdeinsh,CouMrrt,s.,35354
mental evolution,                   general doc-                                                                                                     "Origin and Function of Music," 84,
trine of evolution,         547 ;  interpretation
                            555 ;                                                                                                                    "  237, 295,             549, 580
in general terms, 558
Nature : non-moral character of, 280 ;                                                                                                                  Origin of             Animal    WR.oAr.s,hicpo,m" m5i6s8s,io5n8e1d
                                                                                                                                                     Ouless, Walter W.,
Namtuerrec:iless16d6,isc1ip7l7in, e,2135,69231, 398, 438,
                                                                                                                                                        to paint Spencer's portrait, 387 ; pro-
                                                                                                                                                        posal abandoned, 393
582 sqq. ; acquired characters contro-                                                                                                               O" uOtluatnsdideersr,,"  in Transvaal,
   versy, 343 sqq., 584; alleged                                                                                                                                                contributor  421 seq.
                                        bias, 345                                                                                                                                                                                  York
Nature and Reality of Religion,          261 sqq.                                                                                                                                            to New

Nebular Hypothesis: 425 sqq., 551;                                                                                                                   "OTvimere-sL, e2g9i4slation," 69, 75, 580
cooling of the Earth, 442; "The                                                                                                                      Owen, Sir Richard : 64, 66, 87, 372, 552,
Genesis of Gaseous Nebulae," 445 ;
unpublished letter to Fortnightly                                                                                                                       561 ; memorial to, 325 ; Comparative
  "Review, 590 sqq. (For Spencer's                                                                                                                       Osteology, 541
                                                                                                                                                     Oxford University : discussion of Resur-
   article on, see Recent Astronomy")                                                                                                                   rection, 297 ; Junior Scientific Club,
Nfue Freie Presse, 463                                                                                                                                  356 ; Romanes Lecture, 356 ; He-
6o8 Life of Herbert Spencer

gelianism, 457 ; Herbert Spencer                                                                       " Physiological  Units" distinguished
Lectureship, 483 ; proposed memorial                                                                      from Darwin's "gemmules," 151
to Spencer in Westminster Abbey                                                                        Physiology : physics of, 96, 317; ignores
(signatures), 484 sqq.                                                                                    pathology, 275 ; Huxley and Spencer
                                                                                                          on principles and practice, 330 seq,
PACKARD,     P"roefv. olAu.tioSn.,,"    introduction  of                                               "  Physiology of Laughter," 96, 581
   the word                              551 note     of
             James, 497                                                                                Pictures, Spencer's scheme for classify-
Paget, Sir
Paley, William, Spencer's knowledge                                                                       ing traits of, 374 seq.
                                                                                                       Pilot, Birmingham Newspaper, 39, 47,

   his  MwraitlilngGsa, ze4tt1e8,  143, 201, 232, 244,                                                    50, 287, 297, 579
                                                                                                       Pitt-Rivers, General, 385
Pall                                                                                                   Plants, circulation in, 123 seq., 151, 562
                                                                                                       Plato : Spencer's knowledge of his writ-
  287, 33. 364, 584                                                                                       ings, 418 ; theory of ideas, 553
Palliser, Sir William, 495
Pan-Britannic movement, 328                                                                            Plea for Liberty, 302 (v. 300), 584

Panmixia, 347                                                                                          Poetry : variety a desideratum, 307 ;
Parents, interference with responsibilities                                                               concentration of feeling and idea, 411
of, 303 seq.
Paris : visits and impressions, 75 seq., 82,                                                           Political Economy, takes no account of
   105, 131, 154, 193, 206; events of                                                                     social pathology, 275 seq, (see also
                                                                                                          Social State)
'70-71, 154 ; dinner at Brebant's, 193 ;                                                               "  Political Fetichism,"
   Vaillant's bomb-outrage,                                                                            "  Political Institutions    3"16
Parkes, Kineton, 53 note                361                                                                                                  division  of
                                                                                                                                         (a
                                                                                                          Spencer's Principles of Sociology), 191,
Parliament, members and constituents,                                                                     206, 207, 212, 215, 248
                                                                                                       Pollock, Sir Frederick, 382
"P4a2rl3ia. mentary Reform, the Dangers                                                                                                      M.P.      for
   and                                                                                                 Ponsonby, Hon. J. G. B.,
Parry,  the  Safeguards," 96, 99,              581                                                        Derby, 36
                                                                                                       Poor Laws, 20 ; a breach of laissez-faire,
        Sir  C. Hubert H., 385

Pathology, social and physical, 276
Patronage    as condition to success, 40                                                                  161
Paul, C.      Kegan, Letter to, on
                                                      H.                                               Pope, Alexander, Homer, 43
                                                                                                       Popular Science Monthly, 159, 175, 189,
George's Perplexed Philosopher, 340
Peace Society : non-resistance policy,                                                                     195, 215, 217, 258, 261, 265, 313, 375
221 : Mr. Gladstone's                                                                                  Porter, Noah, President of Yale College,
Peile, Dr. J., 485                      view,  22 \
                                         485                                                               208
Pelham, Prof. Henry                F.,
Pelly, Sir Lewis, 86, 193                                                                              Portsmouth, Evelyn, Dowager Countess
Pembroke, Earl of, 197, 317,                                                                              of, 373 ; Letter to, 462
Letter to, 232                                        370.
                                                                                                       Positive Philosophy or Positivism (see

Pembroke, Gertrude, Countess of, corre-                                                                   Comte)
                                                                                                       Positivist Review, 586
   spondence with Spencer,              371 sqq,                                                       Potter, Richard : friendship begun, 47,
Pennington [F.], 224
                                                                                                          309; visits, 64, 71, 80, 146, 188, 194,
                                                                                                          246, 275 ; suggested cure for Spencer's
Penrhyn Slate Quarries, a visit to, 497                                                                   nervous ailment, 80; consulted by
Perrier, Edmond, 365
Perry, Prof., controversy with Lord                                                                       Spencer about George Eliot rumour,
PPeeKrwues,elvyAi,nnWcoieinlntsct.,o,oel2xin8cg9e,sso2ifv9e9th, eo3ff0Eic6ai,ratlhi3s,1m74,,42341290,     266 ; no sympathy with Spencer's
                                                                                                          doctrines, 492 seq, (v. 257) ; never read
                                                                                                          his books, ib. ; humorous incident con-

    327 seq.,  3A5r3t,hu3rt8, ,493370                                                                     cerning this, 493. Letters to : Scotch
                                                                                                          scenery, 72; an early visit recalled,
Phayre, Sir

Philosopher, The, periodical                   projected                                                  286 ; invitation to the Argoed, 288 ;
                                                                                                          a New Year's greeting, 293. Letter
   by Spencer, 46                                                                                         from, Harrison controversy, 256. (For
Philosophical Anarchist, term objected                                                                    refs. to daughters, see Couriney, Cripps,
                                                                                                          Holt, Meinertzhagtrn, Webb)
   to as describing individualist, 361                                                                 Potter, Mrs. : 205, 492 ; domestic
Philosophical Magazine, 45, 425, 579                                                                      management criticised              by Spencer,
Philosophy, unpopularity of, 379                                                                          509; her retaliation, ib.
"Philosophy of Style," 39, 42, 55, 66,                                                                                                         Letters to:

    544, 579                                                                                              religious exercise, 80 ; a remarkable
                                                                                                          geologic discovery, IO2
Phrenological Journal, rejects Spencer's
   contributions, 40, 45
Physics : recent rapid progress in, 435 ;                                                              Pouchat, 145                 B., 385, 485
                                                                                                       P"oPuoltuonr ,    Prof. E.     Prussian Order
   current theory of constitution of mat-                                                                              le merite,"                     con-
ter, 436 ; biological phenomena alien
l > 558 ; (see Inorganic Evolution)                                                                       ferred on Spencer, but declined, 369
                                                        Index                                                                                      609

Preston, Dr. S. Tolver, 587                                           sqq., 563 sqq., natural selection, 547
Price, Dr., editor of Eclectic Review, 38                             565 ; ultimate element           of mind, 564
                                                                   Public    Health Act, 313           for State con-
     seq.                                                          Public    Schools, proposal

Priestley, Sir W. O., 216, 385                                        trol,  454       175,  289
Principles, ineffective without appropri-                          Punch,     43,

   ate emotions, 355                                               QUAKERS, colour-blindness among, 345
Principles of Astrogeny, unwritten divi-                           Quarterly Review, 7, 85, 86, 165

   sion of synthetic philosophy, 426                               RABIES, scare about, 303
                                                                   Radicalism, function of, 48
Principles of Biology : 108, 377 ; new ed.,                        Radium, its phenomena congruous with
   351 note, 395, 397; revised ed., 420;

    Hector Macpherson on effect of modi-
   fied views in, 519 ; Professor A. Thom-
   son's opinion, 519 ; filiation of ideas,

   555 */</-                                                          evolution, 521
Principles of Ethits: 192, 197, 198^.,                                Railway Morals
   292, 308, 311 seq., 323, 408; in rela-                          "                         and       Railway Policy,"
   tion to Social Statics, 539; filiation of
                                                                      76 seq., 580
                                                                   Railways, nuisances caused          by, 314
    ideas, 573 sqq.                                                Ramsay, Sir Andrew, 497
Principles of Geogeny, unwritten division                          Ramsay, Sir William, researches in phy-

   of synthetic philosophy, 427                                        sics, 436
Principles of Psychology : 71,74, 77, 140,
   146*7?., 149, 173, 177, 195, 206 se#.,                          R"aRnasotimonea,lisDmr,. (oTfhNeottMinogrhaalm)C,olo7u9r
   211, 213, 228, 425, 530; J. S. Mill's                                                                                                           of,"

   appreciation, 114; Spencer's memor-                                216

   andum on edition of 1867, 140 ;                                 Rationalist Press Association,            464
   alleged appropriation of its doctrines                          Rayleigh, Lord, 385, 437
                                                                   Reader, re-organisation, 117 seq.,                                              427,
   by Maudsley, 140, 143 ; alleged in-
   consistences, 178 seq. ; inheritance of                             431
   functional modifications, 351 ; post-                           Reason: supremacy of, 176; not domi-
   scripts, 413 ; origin of work, 545 seq. ;                          nant in mankind, 366 seq. , 450
                                                                   R" eRaesaosnoenr,s  The, 66
   evolutionary conceptions,          546      sqq. ;                                  for dissenting  from                                        the philo-
   filiation of idea?, 563 sqq.
                                                                      sophy of M. Comte," 113, 581
Principles of Sociology '. 162, 173 seq. ;                         Reay, Lady, 200, 2IO
   188, 190, 231, 246,280,287,297,
                                                        I3I1I1.,,  Reay, Lord, 200, 385, 484
   Tfigseq., 408 seq. ; preface to Vol.                            R"eRbeeccecant  Riots, 40
   reference to, 19 ; arrest of Russian                                              Astronomy
   student seen with, 461 ; filiation of                                                          and the Nebular

   ideas, 566 seq.                                                    Hypothesis," essay by Spencer, 85,
Prichard, W. B., engineer, 42, 44, 45,                                 116, 211, 426, 432, 436^^., 551, 580;
                                                                       Prof. Ward's criticism, 590 seq.
   51. 79, 87. 96, 99, 198
Proctor, Richard A., 196 ; on Sun's                                RRReeeiicdcoh,redlP,rooDff.rL.eJ.gHisS.l.a,Rtio.4,n8,5485359 seq.

   constitution, 431 ; Old and New Astro-                          Relaxation, gospel of, 260
   nomy, 445 note
P"roPfreosfseisosnosr,  evolution of, 573
                        Ward's Rejoinder,"  445,        587        Religion : science and, 102 ; unreliability
Progress, anthropocentric connotation of                              of testimony, 297, 356 seq. ', differen-
                                                                      tiation from ethics, 324 ; ghost theory,
"  term, 551            note     and  Cause,"  Spen-                  356, 568 ; coincidences, 357, 372 ; factor
   Progress :                                                         in social evolution, 569 sqq. (see also
                        its Law                                       Christianity)

   cer's  essay on, 83,          o5f30t,he54w7,ord555"esveqo.,-    ""ReRRneeappnlr,ieessEernnttoeasttCi,vreit1i2cG9iso, mv2es1r0,n",m51e86n45t,,"
   580;    introduction

"  lution,"    551 note  Government,"          Spen-                                                                                               582       by
   Proper     Sphere of                                                                                                                               essay

   cer's letters to     5th3e7N?o-,nco5n7f5o, rm57is8t  on,           Spencer on, 84, 580
   35. 38.41. 55-
Prospective Review, 59                                             Reproduction, mystery of, 378
                                                                   Review of Reviews, 313, 377
Protection, argument for, based on Spen-                           Revue des deux Mondes, 113, 173

   cer's writings, 211                                             Revue Scientifique, 200, 582
                                                                   Rhys, Dr. John, Oxford, 486
Psychology : first approached by Spencer                           Rhythm, Clerk Maxwell on, 430
   through phrenology, 40 ; how treated                            Rhythm of motion, origin of Spencer's
   by Spencer, 89 ; of fishes, 82 ; Hector
   Macpherson on Spencer's work in,                                   idea concerning universality of, 550
   519 ; evolutionary conception, 544                              Riforma, La, Italian newspaper, 368

   39
6io Life of Herbert Spencer

Ribot, Prof. Th., translator of Spencer's St. Andrew's Medical Graduates' Asso-

   Psychology, 154                seq.,  206                          ciation, Spencer's reasons for declining
Richard, Henry,                           220                          membership, 152 seq.
                                 M.P.,                             St. Andrews, University of, 152
Ritchie, Prof. David G. , 385
Ritter, Dr. August, physicist,                                     St. Cloud, file of, 76
Riviere,  Mrs. Briton,                         552
Roberts,  Principal F.                                             St. James's Gazette, 229, 583
                                 4F0.,6 486                        St. John's Wood, opposition to railway
Roberts, Dr. Isaac: 437 ; Photographs of
Stars, &-Y., 445, 591                                                 extension, 314 (see also Avenue Road)
Robertson, Prof. G. Groom : 173, 190 ;                             St. Leonards, 298 note, 325, 356
                                                                   Saleeby, Dr., on radium and evolution,

   letter to, 229                        D.D., Dean of             521

Robinson, J. Armitage,                                             Salisbury, Marquis       of :             British      Associa-
Westminster, proposal for memorial to                                 tion address, 238,    339,             363^17.
Spencer, 483 sqq. ; reasons for reject-                                                                                   ; advice

ing it, 487 seq.                                                   to "capture the Board Schools," 454
                                                                   note
Rogers, W. B., 101
                                                                   J.Salmon fishers, effects of wading on,                318
Roman Academy (Accademia dei Lincei)                                                                                        S.
    182 sqq., 194                                                  Sanderson, Prof, (afterwards Sir)
                                                                   Burden : 350, 385 ; letter to, 350
Roman Catholicism, relapse into, how
                                                                   SSaanrgiteanttio, nJ,.Sr.e,guRla.tAio.n,  of, 75
   brought about, 465                J., 181,  347     seq.,                                                 393
Romanes, Dr. George                                                Saturday Review, 241, 255,
                                                                                                                     314
356                                                                Savage, Dr. G. H., 385
Romanes Lecture, Oxford, 356
Romans, Descriptive Sociology,                                     Savage, Rev. Minot J. (Boston, U.S.A.):
Roscoe, Sir Henry E.,                          453     note        213, 227; Spencer's influence on
Rosse, Lord, 426, 591
                                     385                           thought, 522

Rotifers, dormant vitality, 371                                    Say, Leon, 365
Roupell, Charles, Official Referee, author                         S"aySccea,le  Prof. A. Henry,             206
Rooufssbeialluia, rdJ.stoJ.r,y,                                                   of Equivalents,''           536,
                                 298 seq.                                        conception of life,                 578
                                 alleged                           Schelling,
                                           derivation    of        Schleiden,    J. M., 560                          541

   Spencer's doctrines from, 465 seq.                              School, educational magazine, 474
Royal Academy, Herkomer's portrait of                              Schulek, Geza, Buda Pesth, 458 note
Spencer at 1898 exhibition, 392
Royal British Nurses' Association,                                 Science       : speculation and           specialism, 512
Royal Institution, 185                              315               sqq. ;     will its progress           affect Spencer's

Royal Lom bard ian Institution of Sciences,                        philosophy ? 520 seq.

   &c., 370                                                        Scotland : impressions and visits, *j2seq.,
Royal Society : Spencer's reasons for re-                             95, 104, 143, 172, 181, 1 86, 246, 256 ;
                                                                      Young Scots' Society, 468 ; Spencer's
   fusing nomination, 1681^,, 182 ; pro-                           books discussed in a third-class
posed purchase of Darwin's house, 396
                                                                   Scoctatr,riaAg.e,M4.9, 8letter to, 449
seq.               Herbert Sfencer,
Royce, Josiah,      W., Principal of
Rticker, Sir A.                                489              |  Scott    [DA.lfrHe.d,],F.4R7.0S.,
                                                                   Scott,
                                               London

University, letter to, 467                                         Schafer, Prof. E. A.,                       385
Ruskin, John, 403                                                                                            385
Ruskin Hall, Oxford, 403                                           Scheppig, Dr. Richard, compiler                        of
Russell, Lord Arthur, 192
Russell,  Lord John,                                                  Descriptive Sociology, 148, 164
Russell,  Rollo, 200             54                                Schmidt, Jean, writer in Figaro, 361
                                                                   Scrope, Poulett, 441
Russia : translation of Spencer's works,                           Seal, Horace, letter to, 354
   129; confiscation of Essays, ib.;                            |  Sedgwick [Prof. Adam] , 66                        ; " Discourse
   Foreign Office reception to meet the                         |
                                                                   on the Studies of Cambridge (1835),"
Czar,
policy    185   ;  FJeinwlaisnhd,pe4r2se2cu; tioTnims,es358on;         515
            in
                                                                ! Sedgwick, Adam, F.R.S., 396
Russian statesman's fate, 450 note;                             ! Sella, Quinto, President of                             Roman
translations of Spencer's works, 461 ;
strange arrest of a student, ib.                                   Academy, 183 seq.
                                                                   Sellar, Alexander, 193
Rutson, Mr., 193                                                   Sellar,  TM.r,s.19(s3ee  Craig-Sellar)
                                                                   Sellar,  [Prof. W.
SABINE, Sir Edward, P.R.S., 168                                 !  Sellar                   Y.], 318
St. Aidan's College, Birkenhead, Prin-
                                                                i Sex, limitation of heredity by, 396
   cipal's appreciation of Spencer, 202                         j Shadows, projection of, 23
                                                                ! Shakespeare's dialogues, 504
                                                             Index                                        6n

Sharp, Dr. David : 347 ; inorganic evolu-                           nostrums for curing disorders con-
   tion, 424. Letter from, 349                                      demned, 354 seq. ; majority rule, 355 ;
                                                                    survival of the fittest, 366, 540 ; con-
Sheep, interbreeding of unlike varieties,                           ditions of future advance, 366 seq. ;
                                                                    socialism and evolution, 368 ; data of
    322                                                             political science, 403 ; centralization,
Shelley, Percy B. : Spencer's admiration                            404 ; inequality of individuals in social
                                                                    aggregate, 407 seq., 466 ; alleged so-
   for, 53 ; kinship of ideas, ib. note                             cialistic implications of Darwin's and
Shickle, Miss Charlotte : 365 ; reminis-

   cences of Spencer, 505
Shoemakers' strike against machinery,

94                                                                  Spencer's writings, 408 ; remote effects
Shrewsbury Castle, 24                                               ignored, 420 ; self-regulation versus
Sidgwick, Prof. Henry : 197, 212, 385 ;                             coercive methods, ib. ; Church and
criticism of Social Statics, 176; pro-
                  of  MAi.n, d9,9,451805,                           State, 466 seq. ; ideas in Social
   moter          E.                       278  seq.                Statics, 538 seq. ; moral modifiability
Silsbee,                                                            of man, 540 ; biological parallelism,
                                                                    ib. ; religion and political factors in
Simmons, George, 42
"S"imSSkionensw,   Jules, 233                                       evolution, 569
                  of Legislators," 243                              Social Statics: 104, 218 ; Spencer's ex-
                                                                    perience in publishing, 67 ; Indian
                   Arches," 26, 536,       578
Skilton, J. A. : Brooklyn Ethical Asso-                             illofficial's appreciation, 86 ; views sub-
ciation,                    ;  Letters     to,         294,  295,   sequently modified,             seq., 311;
336, 338              293                                           female suffrage, 137^.; H. Sidgwick
                                                                    on, 176; E. de Laveleye, 246; Hux-
                      iff.
Smalley, G. W., 192, 193
Smith, Alexander, Edinburgh poet, 66                                ley on Spencer's review of, 275 ; the
                                                                    land question, 329 sqq., 338, 342 ;
Smith, C. Fletcher, letter to, 468                                  revised ed., 308; written without
Smith,            Flora        ("daTuegnhntyesron'sof     Octavius
   Smith)          : sings                             Farewell,"   previous special training, 417 seq. ;
                                                                    "National Education," 465 ; equality
309 ; recalls pleasant times at Ard-                                of man not alleged, 466; filiation
tornish, 470. Letters to, 200, 217, 237,                            of ideas, 538 seq. \ ethical doctrines,
273, 39                                                             ib., evolutionary conception, 540, 543,
Smith, Prof. Goldwin : 216, 583; Cana-

   dian copyright,             375   seq.              63,   82,        554
Smith, Octavius,               of
                                    Ardtornish,                     Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
                                                                       Children, 303 sqq., 358, 584
   95, 194, 196
Smith, Mrs. Octavius: 193, 194; Spen-                               Society of Authors, nomination of Spen-
                                                                       cer for Nobel prize, 456
cer's affection for, 494 ; Letters to,
                                                                    Sociology : 287, 297 ; how treated by
    181, 191                                                           Spencer, 89 ; proposal for professor-
                                                                       ship, 211 ; evolutionary conceptions,
Smith, W. Valentine (son of Octavius                                   566 sqq. ; Hector Macpherson on
   Smith), 95, 216; Letters to, 194, 309                               Spencer's work in, 519. (See also Social

Social insects, distinguished from a

human society, 407 seq.
Socialism (see Social State)
                                                                       State)
"Social Organism," 95, 150, 418, 554,                               Sorley, Prof. W. R., 385, 486
                                                                    South Africa : Basuto question, 219
   567, 58r
Social State : principles of liberty, 93 ;                          South African War: 421 ^.,449,450

   franchise, 94 ; taxation, ib ; female                               sqq. ; Conciliation Committee, 422 ;
   suffrage, 137 seq. ', controversies with                            Spencer's last book, 460 seq. ; testi-
   Huxley, 150, 330 sqq. ; laissez-faire,                               monial to ex-President Steyn, 463,
    161 ; law of equal freedom, 176, 539,                              476; Boer Relief Fund, 464
                                                                    Southampton, design for dock, 42, 44
   576; political parties, 240 f^. , 449 ;                          South Place Ethical Society, 449
                                                                    Space, infinity of, 371 seq., 481
    free administration of justice, 242, 360                        "Space Consciousness,'' 295, 584
   seq. ; land question, 248, 329, sqq. ;                           Spalding, D. A., 177
   education, 257, 281, 403 sqq., 474;                              Sparks, Jared, 101
    social paiht.logy, 275 seq., 367; war,                          Speaker, The (weekly journal, now The
    281 ; outcry against diminishing evils,                            Nation}, 422, 587
    ib. ; socialism, 300 seq., 325, 403, 408,                       Specialism in relation to speculation,
   422, 454, 468 ; assumption of parental
    responsibilities by State, 303^^.; unex-                            512 sqq.  Administration,"  150,  567,
    pected results of measures, 304 ; the
    higher socialism, 335, future outlook,                          "Specialized
   335! 368, Closer/.; State interference
    not identical with social co-opera-                                 582
    tion, 353 ; where demanded, ib. seq. ',                         Spectator, The, 77, 241, 361, 405, 409,

                                                                    586 seq.
6l2 Life of Herbert Spencer

Spectrum, and evolution of elements,                     Spencer, Herbert : Career Contd.

    434                                                  electro - magnetic           experiments,
Spencer family in Derbyshire, 3                          ib. ; concern for health, 26 ;
                                                         egotism, 27 ; neglect of study,
Spencer, Anna, wife of Rev. Thomas

   Spencer, 279, 309 ; letter to, 310                    ib. ; chief's estimate, 28 ; in-
Spencer, Catherine \n&e Taylor), Spen-
                                                         terest in religious and social ques-
   cer's grandmother, 3
Spencer, Earl, confused with Spencer                     tions, ib. ; gets "the sack," and

   by continental writers, 475                           declines new appointment, 29 ;
Spencer, Henry, Spencer's uncle, 4, 500                  tribute to late chief, 30; friend-
Spencer, Henry, Spencer's cousin, 12,
                                                         ship with chief's niece, 30; and
                                                             children, 31 ; home again, ib. ;
IS                                               IVII.,      development reviewed, ib.
III.Spencer, Herbert : /. Ancestry.                      Journalism, 1841-44 : How stimu-
Career.             Characteristics.                         lated, 33 ; programme of daily
                                                             routine, ib. ; miscellaneous activi-
Opinions.     V. Recreations. (For
Writings see Appendix C, pp. 577
sqq., and General Index)                                 ties, 34 ; engineering papers, ib. ;
/. Ancestry :                                            politics and religion, 35 ; radi-
                                                         calism, ib. ; sets a fashion in head-

    Remote : foreign immigrants at Stour-                goenar,"  ib. ; letters to Nonconformist
     bridge, I ; maternal ancestors, 2 ;                            Proper Sphere of Govern-
     followers of Wesley, ib.', paternal                 ment," 36, 38 ; participation in
     line, 3 ; grandparents, ib.; their                  local politics, ib. ; complete suf-

     children, 4 ; Spencer's father (v.                  frage propaganda, 37 : goes to
     W. G. Spencer), ib. set/.; mother, 6                London to pursue literature, 38 ;
//.   Career :                                           futile negotiations with editors, ib.

    Childhood and youth : birth and bap-                 et sqq. ; mistaken ideas about

     tism at Derby, 7 ; named after                      literary success, 40 ; further con-
     writer of verses, ib. ; sole survivor               tributions to
     of large family, ib. ; life at Not-                 explains his        "Nonnactioonnfaolrmisspte, cifiibc.,";
                                                         41 ; writes address for Anti-State
     tingham, 9 : schooling at Derby,                    Church Association, 42 ; thinks
     il>., 10; narrow escape from                        about style, ib. ; another engineer-
     drowning, 10 ; mental and moral

     traits, 1 1 ; character influenced by               ing engagement, ib. seq. ; general
     family associations, ib. ; becomes                  reading, 43; writes verses, ib. ;
     his uncle's pupil at Hinton, 12 ;
                                                         ideas for inventions, ib. ; pecuniary
                                                                     down to last penny, 44
                                                                   home again, 45 ; phreno-
     rebels against curriculum and runs                  ;straits
     away, ib. seq. ; marvellous feat of
                    13;             Hinton,              seq. ;
     endurance,     and  back at    14 sqq. ;            logical and biological essays, ib.
                         pursuits,                       edits his father's shorthand, ib. ;
     ib. ; studies

     literary style, ib. ; useful occupa-                a new periodical projected, 46 (cf.
     tions, 15; change in conduct at                     36) ; a valued
     Hinton, 16 ; occasional diffidence,                 47 ; sub-editor        friendship     begun,
     17 ; laments his want of energy,                                           of Pilot, ib,
     ib. ; attitude towards father's
                                                         Engineering, second period, 1845-
                                                         1848 : Unsettled prospects, 50 ;
     spiritual entreaties, 18 seq. ; grief               railway survey work, ib. ; punc-
     at death of infant sister, 19 ; con-
     tributes article to local magazine,                 tiliousness curtails promising en-
                                                                                 new
     ib. I also letter on Poor Law, 20 ;                 gagement,    51  ;  :  more  position under
     returns home, ib. ; question of a                   Prichard,  ib.               inventions, ib.
     profession, ib. ; interval of teach-
                                                         sqq. ; miscellaneous reading, 53 ;
                                                         meets Chapman, publisher, and
                                                         others of note,
     ing, 21                                                                  54 ; political activity
Engineering : London and Birming-                        ib. ; effect of     heterodoxy on social
   ham Railway, 22 ; favours decimal
   system, ib. ; joins Birmingham and                    relations, 55 ; reading and collect-
   Gloucester Railway, ib. ; likes the                   ing material {or Social Statics, ib. ;
                                                         method of studying style, il>. ;
     profession, 23 ; neat draughtsman-                  question of livelihood again urgent,
     ship, ib. ; relations with col-                        56 ; joins the Economist, ib.
     leagues, ib. ; occupation with                      Journalism and Authorship, 1848-
     serious problems, ib. ; attitude
                                                             1857 : work on the Economist, 57 ;
     towards official    sup"erDioerfsfo, rd24"  seq.,      progress with Social Statics, ib. ;
     30; nicknamed                                  by   father's criticisms, 58 ; fixing on
                                                         a title, ib. ; press reviews, ib. :
     colleagues, 25 ; invents veloci-                    R. Hutton's criticism, 59 ; friend's
     meter and dynamometer, ib. ;
                                              Index

Spencer, Herbert : Career ContJ.                  Spencer, Herbert Career Contd.
                                                                  of :
objections, ib. ; chapter on Educa-                  distributed, ib. seq. priority to
tion reprinted, 60 ; Bulwer Lytton                   Origin Species, 98 Youmans
                                                                                  ;
thereon, ib. ; signs of growing                                                      ;
                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                            ;;
appreciation, ib. set], ', emigra-                   offers co-operation, 99 influen-
tion discussed, ib. ; lodgings in                    tial support from America, 100
Paddington, 62; tries vegetarian-
                                                     writing First Principles, 101

ism, ib. ; paper on the Water                        another opportune legacy, 102

                                                     seq.         health again unsettled,
                                                     103
                                                                  first Principles com-
question,    63 ; new    friendships                       ;;
Octavius     Smith, G.                                                      ;
                          H. Lewes,                  pleted, 104 its reception, 105

Marian Evans, ib. ; Masson, 64 ;                     1862. Biology begun, 08 corre-
article on Population, ib. ; mis-                                                 ;1
                                                                                         ;
                                                     spondence with Mill on Utili-

understanding with Lewes, 65 ;                       tarianism, 108 seq.                  arrange-

friendship with  65H;uxle"y      and Tyn-            illmneon;ts  for publishing in       America,
dall begun,                     Haythorne                         earlier opinions        modified,

Papers," ib. ; high opinion of                                   seq., 137 sqq. repudiation
Alex. Smith as a poet, 66 stq. ; a                   of Comtism, 112 sqq.; health ;
                                                                                     i.
great discovery, 67 ; bookselling                    improves, 116                        finished,
agitation, ib. : uncle's death,
ib. ; legacy, ib. ; more articles,                   186I4i6. ;  Biology, vol.

                                                                  reorganizing Reader, 117;
                                                     controversy with Mill, ll<)sqq.
69 ; leaves Economist, 70 ; pro-                                                                           ; ;; ;
jected articles on Education and                     investigation of plant circula-
Comte, 71 seq. ; Leader asks for                     tion, 123 seq.
                                                                               ;  cessation of

papers, 72 ; a Continental tour,                     Philosophy announced, 126
ib. set/. ;                                                                               it,
land, 73     overstrain  "inHayStwhiotzrneer-        movement for averting                     ib.
             ; more
                                                     American testimonial, 128

Papers," 74 ; article on Comte,                      French translations, ib.
                                                     1867. Reorganizing First Princi-
ib. ; writing the Psychology, 75 ;
his opinion of  ;;   ib. a holiday                   ples, 131 father's death, 132
                     it,                             mother's death, ib. relations
                                                     ;
                             ;
                                                                 ;;
                            ;                                               ;
in France, ib. seq. impressions
of Pari, 76                                                                          ;
                                                                                          a
ways, ib. seq.
                                                                                                                 ;;
                 a"nhaarrdticulep "onagraainil-,     with parents reviewed, ib.

                                                     sqq. revising Psychology, 140
77 three months at home, ib.                         present writer engaged as secre-
;;                                            ;;
a nervous breakdown, ib. Psycho-                        tary, 141 Descriptive Sociology
logy published, ib.;;                                   started, 141 seq. tries course
                        atour in pur-                   of rackets for his nerves, 142
                                                     1868. Election to Athenaeum,
                           ;
suit of health, 78 his theories
and remedies for ill-health, ib.

seq. an opportune windfall, 79                       ib. a small controversy about
                                                     ;

grubs up tree-stumps, 80 mar-                           spontaneous generation, 144
                                   ;                 1870. First vol. of revised Psy-

riage and religious exercise sug-                       chology issued, 146
gested, 80 repugnance to latter,                     1872. Second vol. of Psychology
;
             ;                                          finished, 147 gives himself ten

                 ;
                  ;

                       ;

                                          a;

                                 ;
80 an enjoyable visit to the

Potters, ib.     repudiates charge                   ;

of materialism and atheism, 81                                              ;
                                                     years to complete the system,

(v. 580) meets Bain, ib. first                       ib. Descriptive Sociology con-
visit to Ardtornish, 82 calls upon                   tinued spite of heavy cost, 148
Comte in Paris, ib. smoke con-                       more parentheses, 148 sqq.                            of ; ;
                                                                                  "Hulitxtlleeyt,hr1u5st0";
suming invention ends in smoke,                      controversy with
83 first New Year dinner with                        prestige receives
Huxleys, ib.; more articles, ib. seq.;                                         a
                                                                                      ',
                                                     from America, ib. academic

Synthetic Philosophy (1858-1896):                    honours declined, 152 seq.',
Scheme sent to father,   85        articles          Gazelles' Introduction, 154 (v.
                           ;                         170 seq.) Ribot translates the
                                ;                    Psychology, 155 naming of the
for the quarterlies, id., 87 com-                    Philosophy further considered,
;pliment from an Indian official,a                   ;;
86 war rumours stop trip to                                     ;
             ;France, ib. attack on Owen, 87                                          to terms
futile endeavours to obtain post                                              ;   Cosmic," ib.
under government, 88 sqq., 96;                ;      "15P6ositiveob"jeactnidons"

correspondence with Mill on poli-                    seq. reasons for selecting
                                                     "Synthetic," 158 (v. 170);
tical questions, 93 seq. gets over                   International Scientific Series
dread of society, 95 more articles,
                     ;                               started, ib. seq. The Study
                            ;                                                  ;
                                                                                       ;
96                                                   Sociology, 159 sqq. reply to
 860. Programme of philosophy                        Martineau, 160
                Life of Herbert Spencer

Spencer, Herbert : Career Contd.                                                                                                                                          Spencer, Herbert : Career Contd.          at
            187in3s. tituCtioonnssu, lted161ab;outintJearpeasntesein                                                                                                                     sqq. ; banquet and speech
               disestablishment, 162 ; corre-                                                                                                                                Delmonico's, 225,
              pondence with Mr. Gladstone                                                                                                                                 j883. Last visit to   23A0.rdtornish,
                concerning criticism, ib. sqq. ;
                cordial relations ensue, 164                                                                                                                              ;"237 ; Edinburgh Review attacks
                                                                                                                                                                                                game cure,"
           (c(iM1vsna6e.ugie5slle1,s16Rs871eo)q64wy.7);a;o;;rlDrryreeoSepsboalcaiicsterniuoiespdnattrsyityv,otefroorc1nurS6obnio8ttloieiccct,iieossjqlmooqiigsb.no,y.-f;  Philosophy, 238
                                                                                                                                                                          1882t2rce43e4or.9l4ni,gt;ri;oo2Apuv4msos0ekloriestriddyesceiasqls.tcwoiudi;tsaeshsrtitaoBcincnHuold,eerarhsref,2mroni5rst'i1ssboL,.ness,ib2cqqu4eq2q5s.s5.t-4,;;
               British Association Meeting,                                                                                                                               _,88st"q5ioq.Fn. asc"torfisnEicscholefedsi,aOsr2tgi4ca6an,lic251IE,nvs2to6ilt6uu;--
                 Belfast, 172                                                                                                                                             tion," 247, 269 sqq.; revised
           187gib4u..ns,eq1P.7r;4inf;uciripttshleedsresroterfvuiScsotiiocvinoeloongfyaFtuirbrseet,-                                                                       views on land question, 247 ;
                                                                                                                                                                          Harrison controversy repub-
Principles, 175                                                                                                                                                           lished in America, 259 sqq.
                                                                                                                                                                          book suppressed, 262 seq. ; re-
187 5. Begins  Autobiography,    177;                                                                                                                                     lations with George Eliot sug-
   keeps away  from Tyndall's   wed-

ding, 182 ; election to Roman                                                                                                                                                gested disclaimer, 266 seq.
Academy, ib. ; desires it to be                                                                                                                                           ,886. Extreme depression, 273 ;
cdaLarnoandrwcdeAnlb,leeRdrd,e1ce8te4o1nr8,;s3hdi;pnesoc,rlmienqienuEdae,dtsioitinbnb.wuseirtqfgho.-hr;                                                                   death of Lott, 274 ; a sojourn

invitation to Foreign Office re-                                                                                                                                          at Brighton, 275
ception declined, 185 seq. ; first                                                                                                                                        188in7t.eresDteianthHinotfonYovuilmlaagnes,libr2a7r7y, ;
vol. of Principles of Sociology,                                                                                                                                          279; children's visits, 275; at
                                                                                                                                                                                              with Potters,
                                                                                                                                                                             Bournemouth    in London,               279
                                                                                                                                                                          1888. Back                                280,

1 88 seq., 190                                                                                                                                                            282 ; proposal for a portrait,
        Ill-health,                                                                                                                                                                            Grant   Allen at
1877.  Ardtornish,   189;    r;ecu"peCraetrees-                                                                                                                           283 ; with        284 seq.;      another
   at                                                                                                                                                                     Dorking,
                        191                                                                                                                                                                              interest
monial Institutions," ib. seq.,                                                                                                                                           loan of   children,   285 ;
194, 200 ; a bad time, 192 ; tries                                                                                                                                        in their    welfare,     ib.  ; Pilot

the social distraction cure, 193 ;                                                                                                                                           days recalled, 287
                                                                                                                                                                          ,889. Boarding-house life at an
"Data of Ethics," 194, 197                                                                                                                                                end, 289; m&nagert. St. John's
seq. ; attends Lewes's funeral,
                                                                                                                                                                          Wood initiated,       ib. ; a summer
    196   A holiday in the      Riviera,                                                                                                                                  in Wiltshire, ib.     ; honours from
1879.
          visit to Wilton, ib.  ; "Po-                                                                                                                                    Bologna and Copenhagen, 290
    197;
litical Institutions" begun, ib.,                                                                                                                                                   an      American      newspaper
                             from theo-                                                                                                                                   seq. ;      ib.              billiard story
207 ; appreciation            to Egypt,                                                                                                                                   attack,            seq. ; a
logians, 202 ; visit                                                                                                                                                      put right, 298 ; controversy on
          ; intercourse      with                                 cele-                                                                                                   land question, 329 sqq.; rupture
204 sqq.                       for                                chair                                                                                                   with Huxley, 331 sqq. (see post,
brities,  210 ; proposal
of Sociology at Liverpool, 21 1 ;
absurd rumours, 212                                                                                                                                                          1893)  Another attack by Hux-
                                                                                                                                                                                     337 5 campaign against
1880-1881. More encounters with                                                                                                                                           x 890.
                                                                                                                                                                             ley,
critics, ib. sqq. ; Tail's attack,                                                                                                                                        socialism, 299 sqq.
                                                                                                                                                                          1891. Visit       to Tyndall, 307:
213 ; George     ;   Eliot's death                                 and                                                                                                       pleasures of   Ardtornish recalled,
funeral, 214          controversy                                 with

Goldwin Smith, 216; planning                                                                                                                                              1893ca20os.8mkepsdelDeq.tteoinagtbhetcohoef mMEetrh.aincPsoA,tltd3e1er1,rm3sae0nq9,.;;
visit to America, 217
                                                                  Henry
1882.     Meeting    with

sGocuersoipr'tgoievfe,fer2S1of8crioo;mlogcye,Asmsaiebtri.oic;na,  of De-                                                                                                  313; protest against a railway
                                                                  gener-                                                                                                  i"nvRaescioonrd,  314; project for a
                                                                                                                                                                                            of Legislation," 316 ;
                                                                      ib. ',

Anti-Aggression League, 221                                                                                                                                               life  in Wiltshire, 317      ; consulted
sqq.; "Political Institutions"                                                                                                                                            on    Japanese affairs,
finished, 222 ; Darwin's funeral,                                                                                                                                                                      318,^.;
                                                                                                                                                                          Ethics finished, 323 ; winter
       223 ; visit to America, 224
Spencer, Herbert : Career Could.                       Spencer, Herbert Career Contd.
                                                                                          :
      residence in London ceases,                                                                ;
                                                       death, 474 last letter, 476                                    ;; ;
                                                       visits from friends, ib.
      325                                                                                                    ;;   last

1892-1895.            Weismann contro-                 words, ib. death, 477; crema-      ;
                                                       tion, ib.; Mr. (Lord) Courtney's
l8    versy, 343 sqq.               onslaught,         funeral address, 480 seq. tomb
      93- Henry George's                               in Highgate Cemetery, 482
      338 sqq. ; domestic troubles,                    manifestations of sympathy, id.
      3 2 6> 353 > reconciliation with                 Herbert Spencer Lectureship
      Huxley, 337                                      founded at Oxford, 483 pro-
1894. Letters to Times on book-                        posed memorial in Wesminster
                                                                                                             ;

      selling question, 361 seq. ; dis-
      solution of menage contem-                       Abbey, 483 sqq. the Dean's
                                                       reply, 486 reminiscences of
                                                       friends, 492 sqq. his place in
   plated, 365                                                                            ;
1895. Prussian Royal Order de-                                                                       ;;

      clined,   369 ; also honours         from        III. the history of thought, 512 sqq.
      foreign     academies, ib.                                  Characteristics generally, 489
                                           seq. ;                                                   :

      story about eating tallow candles                sqq, 534 sqq.
      in engineering days, 370 ; death
      of Huxley, 370                                   Administrative, 495, 508
                                                       Agnosticism, 398, 491
                                                 with  Amusements, fondness for, 528
1896.           Correspondence
                                                       Analysis, 534, 551
      Countess of Pembroke on meta-
      physical questions, 371 sqq. ;
                                                       Argumentaiiveness, 30 (v. 501)
      proposals for portrait declined,                 Artistic, 9, 14, 15, 25 seq.
                                                       Authority, disregard of,                              II,
      373 seq. ; death of George                                                                         9,       16,
      Holme, 378 ; Letters to Times
      on Metric System, 379 ; the                      130, 241, 401, 489, 534, 537 sqq.,
      philosophy completed, 380 (see
                                                           552
Last  459)      at    Brighton,     1896-1903          Books, objection to seeing, 396
       years                                           Brusquerie, 499
                                                       Castle-building, 51, 529, 535
   (see 404, 406)                                      Causality, 402, 491, 534, 536
1896. Letter of congratulation,                        Ceremonial, aversion to, 185, 223,

      381 sqq. ; portrait commis-                          490
      sioned, 387
                                                       Children, liking for, 31, 81, 279,

1897. Moredegreesdeclined,389                              285, 317
1898. Portrait finished, 391 ; his                     Classics, aversion from, 13 seq. 418,
             a                                                                            3
                                                                                                >
                                      it,
                                              ;                                                                                   t
      dissatisfaction with                 ib. na-         535                                                                              t
      tional policy denounced, 410;
      Mr. Scawen Blunt instigated to                   Club life, 495 seq.
                                                       Combativeness, 282

   write     "  poem, ib. seq.             (Ap-        Concentration, 503
1899.           Filiation of Ideas"                    Conscientiousness, 25, 275
                                                       Consistency, 332, 343
      pendix B) written, Biology re-                   Conversational, 497
      vised, 395, 420; opposition to                   Courteousness, 496, 508
      South African War, 421 sqq.                      Criticism, sensitiveness to,
                                                 ;

    449    M<F?i'rst                                                                                             335,
1900.
                      Principles           revised,       510; proneness to, 509 seq.
                                                       Deductive tendency, 351, 502, 535,
      420, 446 8oth birthday con-
                ;

      gratulations, 421                                    540, 557
1901-2. Last book, 446, 448                            Detachment, 535
                                                       Distrust, 507
   sqq. 460 seq.;,,   ;;            ;                  Dogmatism, 492, 501
1902. Put forward for Nobel;           ;;
                                                       Domesticity, 495, 57
   Prize, 456 (see 475) condition
   at 82, 459 last visit to country,                   Ecclesiasticism, aversion from, 569
   461 seq. 465 testimonial to                         Egotism, v. 498
   Ex-President Steyn, 463, 476                        Erudition, 416 sqq.
1903. London University offers                         Femininity, 494
   a degree, 467 last birthday                         Filial affection, 135 seq.
   congratulations, 468 illness,                       Friendship, 492 seq.
   469 pleasant reminders of the                       Health, concern for, 26, 78 seq.
   past, 470; death of Bain, 471
   (see 457) visit from Mr. John;                          307                                                    183,
   Morley, 472 correspondence                          Honours, indifference to, 168,
   with him concerning funeral ad-;
                                                           339. 369, 88 497
      dress, ib. sqq. (see 479) Lecky's
                                                       Ideality, 535, 538, 540
                                                       Idleness, 297, 500, 529, 536
6i6 Life of Herbert Spencer

Spencer, H.: Characteristics Contd.        Spencer, H. : Opinions Contd.

Individualism (see Opinions, Social        Critics, 201, 211, 242
   State)                                  Disestablishment, 466
                                           Education, 39 seq., 277, 335, 404,
Individuality, 17, 537                        417, 454, 474
Intellectual, 416, 419, 500, 511, 535      England, aggressive policy, 219 seq.,
Inventiveness, 14, 22, 24, 25, 26,            284, 307 seq., 390

    43, 51, 82, 491, 536, 538              Ethics and evolution, 336
                                           Franchise, 41, 94, 137 seq.
Irritability, 510                          French, 86, 155, 399
Judgment, 498                              Gambling, 327
Linguistics, aversion from, 13 seq.,

    534                                    Hegelianism,   458
Mathematical, 12 sqq., 22, 25 set/.,       Hell, 354
                                           Home Rule, 247, 300, 315, 325
   417, 438, 534                           Humanity, 301, 335, 366
Memory, 500                                Imperialism, 328
Method, 504                                Japanese affairs, 318 sqq.            360
Moral, 343, 511                            Justice, administration, 242,
Music, 407, 505                            Laissez-faire, 161
Nature study, 418
Optimism, 42, 44, 49, 71                   Landlords, 292, 304
Originality, 65, 171                       Land question, 247, 329 sqq., 338
Persistence, 50
Physical, 391, 489 sqq.                    LT i%be*rty, 301 seq., 355
Political, 312 (see Opinions)
Punctiliousness, 272                       Libraries, free, 403
Principles, 490                            Licensing reform, 422
Radicalism, 35, 48 seq.                    Living wage, 355
Reading, aversion to, 490, 504             Marriage, 78, 296
Restraint, impatience of, 12               Medical profession, 96, 153
                                           Military, 54, 219 .51/17., 410
Scepticism, 469                                                                       (see
Self-advertisement, aveision from,
                                              England)
    161, 171, 358 *<?/., 381               Music, 411
Self-assertion, 16, 23                     Napoleon, Louis, 86
Self-confidence, 16 set/., 24, 26, 492,    Natural selection, 346
                                           Nature, non-moral, 280
   535 ?
Sincerity, 55, 135, 506, 511               Nurses, 315
Singing, 505                               Old age, 468, 470 seq.
Social, 225, 285, 494 sqq.                 Parents' responsibility, 304
Study, aversion to, 12 (v. reading)        Paris, 76
Style, literary, 14, 39, 42, 55, 57,       Peace Society, 221, 224

6 1, 502 seq., 535                         Poetry, 307, 411
Sympathy, 307, 499                         Politics, 28 seq., 37, 41, 48, 54,
Tact, 495 seq.
Unconventionally, 507                      224, 240, 242 seq., 247, 308, 355,
Vanity, v. 75, 498
                                               423

                                           Poor Laws, 161

Wealth, indifference to, 164 seq.,         Press, 207, 301
                      419,  56             Punch, 175
Wi?l7l 4p, ow33e9r.,  469,                 Races, mixture of, 322
IV. Opinions.               476            Railway nuisances, 314
                                           Relaxation, 230, 260
America : Civil war, 107 ; political
institutions, 209 seq., 316 ; wo-          Religion, 18 seq., 48, 55, 60, 80,
men, 281 ; Chinese exclusion,                251 W-t 356, 372

   323 ; impending crisis, 367             Rousseau, 466
Art, 76, 411                               Ruskin, 403
Athleticism, 328                           Sanitation, 75
Carlyle, 53, 378, 455                      Scotchmen, 67
Cause, conception of, 402                  Scotch scenery, 72, 186
Character, 420                             Social State, Socialism, &c., 104,
Children, regimen, 286,
                                 317 (see  153,  161, 238, 244, 248,       325753?sq.,.,
Parents)                                         299 sqq., 314, 325,
                                           28l,

Christianity, 220, 307^7., 354,423,        361, 366, 368, 403, 411, 420, 422,

457, 465                                   454, 468       WL.a, r4, 54521
                                           South African
Co-operation, 358                          Stevenson, R.                   sqq.
Coincidences, 357, 372, 471
                                             Index                                                      617

Spencer, Herbert: Opinions Contd.                  Spencer, W. G. . Letters to Contd.

Supernaturalism, 372                                nalism, 19 seq. ; projection of
Swiss scenery, 72                                   shadows, 23 ; engineering activities,
Taxation, 94 set/.                                  24 ; mental progress, 27 ; journalis-
Testimonials, 283, 325                              tic enterprises, 38 sqq. ; Anti-State-
Testimony,           unreliability of,              Church address, 42 ; Punch and
Titles, 152          set/., 234 seq.    356  seq.

Trade-Unionism, 335, 341                            Pope's Homer, 43 ; financial em-
Uniformity, 404                                     barrassment, 44 seq. ; inventions,
Vaccination, 277, 303                               52 ; Lord John Russell, 54 ; style,
Ventilation, 303                                    55 ; The Standard of Freedom, 56 ;
Wealth, 305, 419; wealthy, 260                      Social Statics, 57, 61 ; an excursion

   Women, 281, 296, 405                             "with Lewes, 63 ; Population article,
V. Recreations : generally, 237, 239,               64 ;    Development Hypothesis,"
                                                    65 ; essay on Style, 66 ; Rev. T.
   328, 505 ; billiards, 215, 222, 237,             Spencer, 69 ; more articles, ib. :
                                                    continental impressions, 72 ; Psy-
  n,298, 495, 532 ; chess, 16 ; fiction,            chology, 77 ; breakdown,
                                                                                                        79 ;
           505; fishing, 15, 82, 87, 123,           opinions of Psychology, 81 ; Mill's

172, 186, 195, 472 ; quoits, 16, 237,               Logic, 82 ; Huxley's and Tyndall's
239 ; skating, 16, 505 ; whist, 505.                lectures, 83 ; Anglo-French rela-
See also 15, 16, 79, 80.                            tions, 86 ; holiday and social move-

Spencer, John, Spencer's uncle, 4, 310,

447                                                 ments,    95             ; programme            of philo-
iiSpencer, Matthew,                                 sophy,  96 ;                                  Principles,
   father, 3 set/.,        Spencer's grand-                                  writing First
                                                    100 ; reviews of
                                                                             ;

                                                                                it,

                                                                                               ;
Spencer, Thomas, of Kirk-Ireton, Spen-                                       105 social en-
                                                    gagements, 109 cordial treatment
   cer's ancestor, 3       M.A., Spencer's          at Ardtornish, 116; progress with
Spencer, Rev. Thomas,                               work, 123; New Year's dinner at

uncle : influence on Spencer, 4, 16, 36 ;           Huxley's, ib.            John S. Mill's
financed by Spencer's father, 4 ; takes                                      ;;
charge of Spencer's education, 12 sqq. ;                                               58

                                                                                                     ;
                                                    generosity, 126 advice, expostula-
                                                          tion, and entreaty, 133 seq.
encourages his political   toacMtivri.ty,Iley36-          lar hypothesis, 426                            Nebu-
(v. 33) ; introduces him                               Letters from, 13, 15,                            Harriet
worth, 46 ; business advice to Spencer,            Spencer, Mrs. W. G, (nee
47; pamphlets, 54 ; editor of National             Holmes), Spencer's mother general
Temperance Chronicle, 68 ; death,                                            6
                                                   characterization,                         ;

                                                                                                     :
ib. ; Spencer's obituary notice, ib.                                         (v. 62), 133; in-
                                                   fluence on Spencer, 16 objects to
seq. ; founder of library at Hinton,               Spencer mentioning Voltaire,
                                                                                                        58
   279. Letters to, 15, 56 ; letter from, 16                                                               ;
Spencer, Mrs. Thos. (see ante, Anna
                                                   death, 132; Spencer's relations, ib.

                                                   sqq. Letters to, 39, 67, 79, 82, 92,

   Spencer)                                        134
Spencer, William, of Kirk-Ireton, 3                Spencer, Mr., aeronaut,
Spencer, William, Spencer's uncle and              Spielmann, Mr., 463       472

teacher: 4, 9, 20, 21, 63, 102; Letter             SSSpppooootntntiasewnr,eooouRdseev, g. eWWnei.lrliaAatmi.o,n,O, xP1f.o4Rr4d.S,se.q,4. 81693
                                                   Spurzheim, Dr., lectures on phrenology,
to, 68
Spencer, William George (commonly

called George), Spencer's father: as-

sists his father as teacher, 3 ; charac-               10, 537
teristics, 4 set/.,                                Standard, The 232, 302, 363, 582, seq.;
       ;             20, 46, 133 sqq., 534              ;
       ;  religious  attitude described, 5                       ;
            marital   relations, 6 ; lace-                                :
set/.                                              Harrison-Spencer controversy, 256,
seq.
                                                   262 seq. outline of Spencer's work,

making speculation, 8 seq', reminis-               312 Spencer's letter      declining                   nomi-
                                                   nation as Alderman of                                314
cences, 10 ; distress at Spencer's be-                                       L.C.C.,
haviour at Hinton, 13, 17 ; solicitude             Standard of Freedom, 56, 579
for Spencer's spiritual welfare, 18 seq.,          Standish House, Gloucestershire, 193,

28 (cf. 80) ; relieves Spencer in his                  237
pecuniary straits, 44 seq. ; system of
shorthand, 45, 534 ; on Spencer's use              Stannard, Mrs. Arthur, letter to, on
of theological language, 60 ; death,                  religious view in Soul of a Bishop, 354

130, 132 ; Spencer's relations with, ib.           Stanley, Arthur P., Dean of Westmin-
                                                      ster, 214, 215
 sqq., 425    "a     pair  of clothes,"      15;
Letters to :                                       Stanley of Alderley, Dowager Lady, 303
                                                   Stephen, Sir James Fitzjames, 255
application to studies, 17 ; religious             Stephen [Sir] Leslie 382, 385 relations
feelings, 18 ; first essays in jour-
                                                      with his father, 18 Ethical Lecturers'
                                                                             ;:
                                                                                                    ;
6i8 Life of Herbert Spencer

Fund, 416 seq., 454. Letter to, 417;                       TABLET, The, approval of article by

Letter from, 417 seq.                                      Spencer, 239
            J.R,obEexr-tPreLosiudies,nt45O5 range          Tag, Der                   nienwAsprat,per1)5, 04; 75nervous
Stevenson,                                         Free    Taine, H.    (BeIdrltinal
Steyn, M.                                                               1
                                                              sensation,    :
State, testimonial and letter to, 463                                          P5. 64G.n,oStepencer's    controversy
                                                           Tail, Prof.
seq., 476
Steyn, Mrs., Letter from, 476                              with, 66, 211 sqq.
                                                           Tail's Magazine, rejects article by Spen-
Stourbridge, settlement of emigrants
at, i                                                         cer, 39, 40, 44, 66
         GE.dwFa.,rd3,85M.P.                               Talent, as a condition to success, 40
Stout,                          for  Derby,  36            Tappan [EL P.], French Academy, 233
Strutt,                                                    Taxation, universal direct, advocated, 94

Study of Sociology. 159 seq. , 208, 210,
214, 297, 359, 399, 408, 533, 568;                         seq.

criticism of W. E. Gladstone, 162 seq. ;                   Taylor, Bayard, 101
                                                                               HAe.l,enM, .P13.,7
popularity      foorf,Ya1le7,3  ; objected to as           Taylor,      Miss                        240
text book                       208 ; evolutionary         Taylor,      Peter

conceptions, 567                                           Teaching (see Education)                          and Li-
Sturge, Joseph, 36, 47                                     Tedder, Henry K., Secretary
Style:   Lord"                   6l ; evolution,           brarian, Athenaeum Club: ix., 231;
                Macaulay's,     of Style")                 general editor of Descriptive Sociology,
    544  (see   Philosophy
Sully, Prof. James : co-operates in testi-
monial to Spencer, 382, 385, 389 ;                         Te4n5n3ienl,oteSir John, Punch cartoon, 289
Letter to, 389, 421                                                            Alfred, Lord,                 laureate,
Sumner, Charles, 101                                       Ten"nHysaonnd, s    all Round,"          poet
                                                                                                    222      pe"eFraagree-,
                                                                 ;
Sumner, Prof., Yale College, 208                           241 civil list             ;p"eTnshioen, 289^7     Hope,"
Sun : Spencer's article on constitution of,                well," 309;                              Larger
                                                                                                     s ;;
431 seq., 559; question of age, 432;                          371. Letter to, 78
photosphere, 445                                           Testimonials, grave social abuse, 283
Sunday Society, 247                                        Testimony, untrust worthiness of human,
Supernatural, coincidences favouring be-
   lief in, 372                                                297, 356        seq.,  3M72.,                 favourite
Survival of the Fittest : in social evolu-                 Thackeray,                         Spencer
                                                                                W.

   tion, 366, 540 ; in the inorganic world,                  novelist, 54
   436 ; the term, 559
Swinburne, Algernon Charles, letter to,                    Thames, Spencer's suggestion for im-

                                                              proving,        63  Population,"           64  seq.,    98,
                                                                             of
                                                           "Theory
                                                                                       doctrine of       selection,
220                                                           5425^., S79                                348, 385     98
                                                           Thiselton-Dyer,            Sir W. T.,         letter to,   on
Switzerland, Spencer's impression of, 72                   Thompson, Sir              E. Maunde,

Symes, Principal J. E., 486                                   British Academy of Letters, 456
Sympathy : genesis, 537 ; Adam Smith's                     Thompson, Sir Henry, Bart., 193, 215
   theory, ib.: root of justice and benefi-                Thomson, Sir Wm. (Lord Kelvin, q.v.)
   cence, 540; in social evolution, 576                    Ticknor, George, 101
Synthetic Philosophy : this work not an                    Times, The letters by Spencer on sundry
exposition of, viii. ; scheme for, 85, 551,
                                                                               :
                                                                                          ;
563 ; distribution of programme and                        topics, 67, 247, 360, 375 (see 242,
opinions thereon, 96 sqq. ; in relation                    579, 583 sqq.} foreign reports con-
to Comte's philosophy (see Comte) ;                        cerning Spencer, 129, 200; article on
Gazelles' introduction, 153 seq. ; title                   Virchow's address, 195 seq. report of
                                                           Church Congress, Swansea, 202
and reasons for 156 sqq. 170; natureit,                                                                  ;            ;;
                                     ;,
                                         ;                                                                     ;
and origin of, 256, 257 seq. Mr. A.                J.      Anti-Aggression League, 222 Spen-
                                                           cer's refusal to stand for Leicester, 241
Balfour's criticism, 344 completion,
380; letter of congratulation, 381 sqq.;                   Harrison-Spencer controversy, 256,

finishing        touches, 421        ;      unwritten      261 seq., 265 seq. (v. 583 seq.) Spen-            ;
divisions,      424 sqq., 531          ;Clerk Max-         cer's advice to Japan, 323 contro-                   ;
                scheme, 429;                               versy on land question, 329 sqq. (v.
well on                                 "The Un-                          Bookselling Question, 362 (v.
knowable" in First Principles, 465;                                     585) Metric System, 379, 413,
deductive and inductive methods con-                       584)  ;;
                                                           579,              ;
                                                                         F. H. Collins's proposal for por-
sidered, $12 seq. Hector Macpherson                        586          of Spencer, 373, 374, 586 testi-
on its dualistic character, 519; con-                      trait
                  ;                                                                                 ;
                                                     ;; ;                                                       ;

                                                                                                                   ;
gruity with scientific progress, 520 sqq.                  monial to Spencer, 382 criticism of
                                                           Herkomer's portrait, 392, 586 Bram-
Spencer's condition when writing, 531                      well Booth's attack, 398, 586; R.
omitted divisions not essential, ib.                       Buchanan's letter, 410; remark con-
"Filiation of Ideas" (Appendix B), a
                                                           cerning fate of Russian statesman, 450
sketch plan, 533
                                                                Index                                           619

   note; life of Stevenson, 455; Spen-                                     " ULTIMATE Laws of Physiology," 549,
   cer's last book, 460 ; report of Russian
   student's arrest, 461 ; Spencer's daily                                 "  580       Questions,"  essay in Spen-
   reading, 504 ; on Spencer's career,
                                                                              Ultimate

                                                                              cer's last book, 448, 460
                                                                           Uniformity, mania for, condemned, 404
Titles : Spencer's reasons for refusing                                    United Service Club, 298
                                                                           U" nUitneivderSstaaltesPo(sseteulaAtme,e"ric6a9) sqq., 73, 79,
   various kinds, 152, 168 sqq., 182 sqq.,

   233  *qq-> 291,  3 69 seq.,  467  (see  Appen-                             82, 544, 580

   dix  D, 558)                                                            Universal Review, 426

T. P.'s Weekly, 298                                                        Universities, standard of education, 417
Trade-Unionist : hostility to employers,                                   Unknowable : 324 ; relation to knowable

"  341         Strain  of Beams,"     34,                       578        " inexplicable, 402
   Transverse
               Sir J., 95                                                     Use and Beauty," 65, 579
Trelawney,      78, 100                                                    U"sUe-sIenhoefritAanncteh,ropsoeemHoreprheidsimty," 74, 580
Treport, 75,
Tribune, New York newspaper, 208,                                          Utilitarianism, Spencer's attitude, 108
   340, 342, 583
Troughton, Walter, Spencer's secretary,                                       seq., v. 519

   1888-1903: ix., 469; reminiscences,
   287, 288, 380, 448, 462, 465, 469,
   476. 492. 503 se</-> 56, 508, 532;                                      VACCINATION, 303
                                                                           Vambery, A. 210
   Spencer's last words,   476                                             Vanity Fair, caricature
Truth, ultimate test of,   119 sqq.                                        Varigny, II. de, French   of Spencer, 197
                                                                                                     translator, 400
Tunbridge Wells Hydro. 227                                                 Various Fragments, 316, 461, 583 sqq.
"I-Tupper, Sir Charles, Canadian Copy-
   right, 375                                                              Vedanta, its teachings alleged to have

Turner, Sir William, Edinburgh Univer-                                        influenced Spencer, 398
   sity, 486.                                                              Vegetarianism, 62

Twilight Club,      New York, 230                                          Velocimeter, appliance invented by
Tylor, Dr. E.       B. : 189, 238,
                                      356,                      409,           Spencer, 25, 34, 536, 578
                                                                           Venice, 206
   568, 582 ; correspondence concerning
   controversy, 451 seq.                                                   Venn, Dr. John, 385
Tyndall, Prof. John : friendship with                                      Ventilation of dwelling houses, 303
                                                                           Vertebrate skeleton, Spencer's attack on
   Spencer begun, 65 ; testimonial to
   Spencer, 91 ; view of equilibration, 104                                   Owen's doctrine, 87
   ( 555) ; meetings with, 109, 142, 305,                                  Vesey, Lord  and    LaNdayt,u1r9a8l
   307 (v. 414) ; attitude to Comtism,                                     Vestiges of    the                   History  of
   113; re - organizing Reader, 117;
                                                                              Creation, 53, 541
                                                                           Vesuvius, eruption of, 1868, 439
   consulted by Spencer, 131, 143, 144,                                    Vetter Dr. B., German translator, 269,

   252 seq., 426 sqq., 437 ; infectious                                        359
   vivacity, 146 ; International Scientific                                Vienna, Imperial Academy, 369, 589

   Series, 159, 187; Tail controversy,                                     VViinncees,nt,ProHf.enSr.y,H3.,6 385
   166 ; resents attack on men of science,                                 Vitalism, 144, 398 (see Life)
                                                                           Volcanic eruptions, Spencer's specula-
   ib. ; British Association address, 172,
                                                                              tions concerning, 439 seq.
   174; criticism of First Principles,                                     Voltaire, Spencer suppresses his name, 58
                                                                           Voluntary system, Spencer dissociates
   175, 428 ; marriage,     181, 223  ; George
   Eliot, 214, 266 seq.    ; health,  273, 305                                himself from ethics of, 59
                                                                           Voluntary taxation, 301 seq.
   seq. ; Huxley v. Spencer controversy,

   331 sqq ; Weismann controversy, 348 ;                                   WADE,
   death, 356 ; age of the earth, 438 ; on                                 Wales,
   Spencer's character, 510

   Lettpelrasgiatoris:mesquiolibf raptsioync,holo10g4ist(ss,ee  555);              Sir Willoughby, 385          VII.),
       physical conceptions in First                                               Prince of, (King Edward
                                                                P1r4i3n-;
                                                                              ridiculous statement concerning, 414
   ciples, 175 ; his marriage, 182 ; Times                                 Wales, Prince and Princess of, London

   leading article, 195 ; personal, 289,                                       University degrees, 467

   2 97> 35 s q-i 326 ; political and social                               Walker, J. Hanson, 394
   tendencies, 325 ; the Huxley affair,
   333. Letters from : Huxley, 332 ; on                                    Wallace, Alfred Russel : 385 ; opinion of
       Spencer's physical ideas, 428                                           Spencer's biological writings, 151 seq. ',
Tyndall, Mrs. : letters to, 356, 365, 368,                                    Spencer's ethics, 199; Land Nationali-
   370; letter from, 370                                                      zation Society, 218 ; Weismann con-
                                                                              troversy, 349. Letter to, 364
62O Life of Herbert Spencer

Waller,      MWra.,lte1r92II.,  192                      Williams, Mr. [Sidney], 228
Walshe,                                                  Williams and Norgate (Spencer's pub-

War, in social evolution,            281, 366 seq.,          lishers), 126
                                                         Williamson, Dr., 437
    569 sqq.                                             Wilks, Dr. Samuel, 385     editor    of Pilot,
                                                         Wilson, Rev. Dr. James,
Ward, Prof. James : 486 ; controversy
   with, 445, 590                                            48, 287     M.P., of the    Economist,

Ward, Lester F. : biological basis of                    Wilson, James,
Spencer's sociology, 570 note ; letter
to, on Spencer's relations to Comte,                         48, 56 seq., 92             137 sqq. ;

    376      set].                                       Women: suffrage      question,
                                                         outcry against wrongs of, 281 ; in-
Ward,         Wilfred,  255                              tellectual powers, 295 seq. ; over-

Water Question, article by Spencer on,

    63. 579                                              exaltation of, 405
                                                         Worcester, 23 sqq., 536
Waikins, Rev. Prof., appreciation of                     Working classes, political power, 94

Spencer, 202                                             Workman's Peace Association, 223
Watson, Prof., 228 seq.
               William,                                  Wright, Prof. W. Aldis, 486
Watson,      George F.,  4R10.A.,    373  seq.           Wright-Henderson, Rev. P.       A.,  Oxford,
Watts,
Watts, Isaac, Divine and Moral Songs,
Spencer's text-book as a child, 9                            486
Wealth, distiibution during life approved,
                                                         Wroughton, Mr., 206
    305                                                  Wylde, Rev. M., 202 seq.
Wealthy, lack of initiative, 360                         Wyman, Jeffries, 101, 150

Webb, Sidney, 361                                        X Club, 169, 193, 248 seq., 282, 327,
Webb, Mrs. Sidney (nee Beatrice Potter) :
                                                             33 ! *?</> 45 6 > 470
    385 ; last visit to Spencer, 476
   Letters to: "game-cure," 237; social

       pathology, 275 ; proposed portrait,               YALE College, 208
       283 ; billiard story, 298 ; agnostics             Youmans, Edward Livingston : intro-
       and believers, 457 ; thoughts in                  duction to Spencer, 99 ; personal in-
       illness, 470                                      tercourse, 104, 130, 196 seq., 218;
                                                         Civil War, 106 seq. ; watches Spen-
Weismann, Professor A., controversy

respecting inheritance of acquired                       cer's interests in America, 109 seq.,
characters, 342 sqq.
Welby, Lady    VRic.tAo.r,ia,373485                      164 seq., 174, 207, 278 ; raises fund to
Wells, H. T.,                                            recoup Spencer's losses, 128 ; amanu-
Wemyss, Earl of, 317.                                    ensis to Spencer, 130; Spencer's
                                         Letters  to :   drastic criticism of lectures, 130; or-
reasons for not joining                  Liberty  and    ganizes Int. Scientific Series, 159, 187 ;

Property Defence League, 242 ; anti-                     founder and editor of Popular Science
socialist movement, 299 seq. ; railway
   nuisances,           ; English                 ib.    Monthly, 159, 174; lecture on Spen-
               3T14.     C., 295;    stupidity,      of  cer, 171 ; introduction to Spencer's
Werner, E.                             compiler          Data of Ethics, 198, 201 ; Spencer's
                                                         obligations to, 218, 274 (see 236) ;
    Chinese Descriptive Sociology, 295                   Spencer's American visit, 226 ; con-
Wesley, John, letter quoted, 2 ; converts

   Spencer's grandmother, 3                              scientiousness, 275 ; Spencer's appre-
Wesleyan Methodism, associations of                      ciation, 274, 278, 375 ; death, 277 ;

Spencer's family with, 2, 3, 5                           Fiske's memoirs, 357 seq; interest in
Westerham, Kent, 370, 374
Westmacott, Mr. [son of Sculptor], 244                    Spencer recalled, 379   106 seq. ; pub-
Westminster Abbey : 2145^7.; movement                    Letters to : Civil War,
for memorial to Spencer in, 483 sqq.                     in;lishing affairs, 1 1 1 ; change of views
Westminster Review : Spencer's con-                      in Social Statics,              Comtism,

tributions to, 64, 66 seq., 83 seq., 96,                 113 ; Count Stirum's donation,       126 ;
             579 sqq. ; review of         Spencer's      holiday sight seeing, 131 ;
  F54i7r>st  Principles, 105              427, 431,                                           First
"What         is Electricity," 117,
                                                         Principles, ib.; spontaneous genera-
                                                                     ; progress with the Philo-
560, 581      Mr., 197                                   tion, 145  forecast, 147 ; Hutton con-
             William :                                   sophy, a
Wheatley,                                                troversy, 148 ; Darwin and mental
Whewell,                        History  and Philoso-    evolution,      1"4P9o;sitivFeiske" 'sPhiloHsaorpvhayrd,
                                                         lectures on
   phy of the Inductive Sciences,                 515 ;
   Mill's criticism, 544                                 156; making a fortune by philo-
Whipple, E. P., 101                                      sophy, 160;          an opportunity for
Williams, Geoffery S., 483                               advertisement
                                                                              rejected, ;161 seq.
                                                     Index                                                                         62 i

Youmans, E. L. : Letters to Contd.                            Youmans, E. L. : Letters to Contd.

Descriptive Sociology worries, 164                            dature, 241 ; Pall Mall Gazette's
         Huxley's condition,                                  couplet, 244 ; Boehm's bust, ib. ;
seij. :                                                166 ;  permanent work resumed, ib. ; per-
author   and publisher, ib. ;
                                                     a tilt

with Tyndall, 166 ; lecture at                                sonal inquiries, 245 ; Irish Obstruc-
Liberal Club, 171 ; Tyndall's Bel-                            iat"nioR"n"de, rEli2egc4acio7ldeufs;suialflrsyiteRicneaddtlrseossItbpnrreusecciaitttkiuvinetigaon"nduscp,h", a2P2pr54ot8ies-r;;
fast address and its effect, 172 sty. ;
scheme for financial assistance, 174 ;
Popular Science Monthly policy,                               pect," 252 sqq. ; Harrison's con-
175 ; Bain and evolution, Romanes,
181 ; Dr. Elam's attack, 187 set], ;                          troversy, 254 sqq. ; Autobiography,
conversation with a bishop, 188;                                                                                   Harrison con-
copyright, 189, 209 ; Tylor and                               G2tr5eo7ovre;grseyre,Eplrii2on5tt9,ing2s6q7qt.;he;'
McLennan, 189 ; Data of Ethics,                                                                                    relations with
                                                                                                                   Factors of Or-
                                                         in-  ganic Evolution," 269, 271 ; Inter-
194 :    1h9o6lid; a"yde'vciol-mmpaayn-cioanreship"  mood     national copyright, 272 ; consola-
vited,

enjoined, 198 ; French clerical party,                        tion  ; in"   illness,   274 ; a last greeting,
                                                              277           What       is Electricity," 427 ;
200 ; reviews of Data of Ethics,
201 : Mr. Guthrie's misrepresenta-                            nebular hypothesis, 431, 437. Also
tions, ib. ; reviewers' misconcep-
tions about First Principles, ib. ;                           123, 125, 207
                                                              Letters from : publishing affairs, 102,
visit to Egypt, 204; Grant Allen                              109 sqq. ; Civil War, 106, 208 ;
and Critics, professorship of socio-                          Social Statics,                                         seq. ;  .thArubsbto"t
logy, &c. , 211; civilities with an                           controversy, 145         1  11                       "  little
                                                                                       ;  a

old antagonist, 211; sundry critics,                          from the Nation , 150; false report
212 set]., 217 ; hardest bit of work                          of Bain's death, 189 ; Harrison's
finished, 223 ; the American visit,
                                                              controversy, 258 seq., 261 ; Spen-
226; Hughlings Jackson's researches,                                 cer's  tribute  EilnizaA,ut2o7b7i,og3r5a7p.hy,Le2tt7e4rs
227; Henry George, 229; "gospel                               Youmans,       Miss

of relaxation," 230; a Japanese                                    J.,from,

                                                              Youmans,
translation, revision of Essays, 231 ;                                      278, 293,  379                            342,    452
                                                                                          293,
                                                                            Dr. W.
                                                              Young, Prof., ideas of Sun's constitu-
Drummond's book, election to
French Academy, 232 seq. ; Darwin-
                    ; Tylor, 238 ; Com-                       tion, 431
ism, 236,           Edinburgh Review's                        Young Scots' Society, 468
munism,    ib.23;7
                                                              ZOIST, The (phrenological magazine),
criticism, 238 ; political articles, 239,
243 ; proposed parliamentary candi-                               40, 45. 537, 579

JOHN BALE, SONS & DANIELSSON, LTD., 83-91, Great Titchfield Street, Oxford Street, London, W.
HERBERT SPENCER'S WORKS.

In 2 vols. bound in buckram, 28s. net ; post-free, 29s. With a number
                           of Portraits, some in Photogravure.

       AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
                        CONTENTS OF VOL. I.
1. Extraction.                                        and their Children.                                                          Parents.
4. Childhood.           2B. oGyhraonoddp. are6n. tsA  Journey and a Flight.                                                   3.  7. Youth

                5.                        A False Start.

at Hinton Charterhouse.    8.             Some Months                                            9. Commence   Engineering.
10. Life at Worcester.   11.                                                                   at Powick. 12.
                                                                                                                A Nomadic
P1185e..rioBAdac.Bkriae1tf3H. SouRmbee-te.udrinto1r6ts.ohiApD. eCrabmy1.p9.aigA1n4P.inaArLlioaVnmdisoeintn.taanr1yd7.SituAsrtvCeHyoo.nmseequ2Ae0gn. acAeinsn..
Interval in Town. 21. Another Parliamentary Survey. 22. Inventions.
23. Suspense. 24. Begin Journalism. 25. My First Book. 26. An Idle
Year.   27. A More Active Year. 28. Leave The Economist.
29. Two Months' Holiday. 30. Writing for
                                                                                                     QLuoasrtt.erly"            Reviews.
3S1ig. nifMicyantSeEcsosnadys.BooAkP.PEND3I2C.ESEAighttoeeKn. Months                                                          33. Some

                        CONTENTS OF VOL. II.
A3364u..tuAAmnSP'yslastnReemlFaxixoaeftidoPnhsui.lpoosno3.p9h. yA37P.VrooWjelucrmtietiedn.gof  35. Plans for executing it.
                                                                                               FBiiorslotgyP.rinc4i0p. leAs.       38. An

                                                                                                                              Digression.
41. Another Volume of Biology. 42. Impending Cessation. 43. Sad
EitvseCnotsn.sequ4e4n.ceRse.-ca4s6ti.nAg   First Principles.                                     45. An Imprudence and
                                          Tour in Italy. 47.
                                                                                               Developing the Psychology.
I48. Finishing the Psychology. 49. An Extra Book.                                                        A50.ReStormosepeMctinivoer

Incidents. 51. The Descriptive Sociology. 52.
Glance. 53. Vol.        of The Sociology. 54. A Series of Articles.
55. The Data of Ethics. 56. Ceremonial Institutions. 57. Up the Nile.
     AEnGdriienvgousof   Descriptive                                                           Political Institutions.
58.                     Mistake. 61.      Sociology. 59.                                             A   Visit
60.                                       Coming Events.                                       6A2.      H.     to                America.
63.                                                                                                  to
     Conclusion. 64. Reflections. APPENDICES

                     Popular Re -issue NOW READY.
     Seventh Edition. In one vol. demy 8vo, cloth, price 7s. 6d.,

               With a Photogravure Portrait of the Author-

        FIRST PRINCIPLES.
                                          CONTENTS.

 PART I. THE UNKNOWABLE.                              3. Ultimate Scientific Ideas.

1. Religion and Science.                              4. The Relativity of All Know-
2. Ultimate Religious Ideas.
                                                                  ledge.
                                                      5. The Reconciliation.

3 | 08                                                                                                                            A
2 HERBERT SPENCERS WORKS.

   PART II. THE KNOWABLE.          13. Simple and Compound Evolu-
                                              tion.
  1. Philosophy Defined.
  2. The Data of Philosophy.       14. The Law of Evolution.
  3. Space, Time, Matter, Motion,  15. The Law of Evolution, con-

             and Force.                       tinued.
 4. ThelndestructibilityofMatter.  16. The Law of Evolution, con-
  5. The Continuity of Motion.
  6. The Persistence of Force.                tinued.
  7. The Persistence of Relations  17. The Law of Evolution, con-

             among Forces.                    cluded.       of Evolu-
 8. The Transformation and Equi-   18. The Interpretation

             valence of Forces.              tion.
 9. The Direction of Motion.
10. The Rhythm of Motion.          19. The Instability of the Homo-
11. Recapitulation, Criticism,
                                               geneous.
           and Recommencement.
12. Evolution and Dissolution.     20. The Multiplication of Effects.

                                   21. Segregation.
                                   22. Equilibration.

                                   23. Dissolution.

                                   24. Summary and Conclusion.

               In two vols. demy 8vo, cloth, price 36s.

THE PRINCIPLES OF BIOLOGY.
(Qfk Thousand, REVISED AND ENLARGED EDITION.)
                   CONTENTS OF VOL. I.
PART I. THE DATA OF BIOLOGY.       10A. Ditto, concluded.

1. Organic Matter.                 11. Classification.
2. The Actions of Forces on Or-
                                   12P. ARDTistIrIiIb.utioTnH.E EVOLUTION OF
          ganic Matter.                              LIFE.
3. The Re-actions of Organic
Matter on Forces.                  1. Preliminary.
                                   2. General Aspects of the Special -
3A. Metabolism.
4. Proximate Definition of Life.
                                   Creation-Hypothesis.
5. The Correspondence between 3. General Aspects of the Evo-
Life and its Circumstances.
                                   lution-Hypothesis.
6. The Degree of Life varies as the 4. The Arguments from Classi-
Degree of Correspondence.          fication.
6A. The Dynamic Element in Life. 5. The Arguments from Embry-
7. The Scope of Biology.           ology.
                                   6. The Arguments from Mor-
PART II. THE INDUCTIONS OF                  phology.
             BIOLOGY.              7. The Arguments from Distri-

1. Growth.                         bution.
                                   8. How is Organic Evolution
2. Development.
2A. Structure.
                                   caused ?

3 Function.                        9. External Factors.
                                   10. Internal Factors.
4. Waste and Repair.               11. Direct Equilibration.

5. Adaptation.                     12. Indirect Equilibration.
6. Individuality.
6.\. Cell-Life and Cell-Multipli-  13. The Co-operation of the Fac-
                                   tors.
cation.                            14. The Convergence of the Evi-

7. Genesis.
8. Heredity.
                                   dences.

9. Variation.                      14A. Recent Criticisms and Hypo-
HO Genesis, Heredity, and Varia-
                                   theses.

tion.                              FOUR APPENDICES.
HERBERT SPENCERS WORKS.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

  PART IV. MORPHOLOGICAL               7. Differentiations among the
                                                 Outer Tissues of Animals.
                DEVELOPMENT.
                                       8. Differentiations among the
 1. The Problems of Morphology.                 Inner Tissues of Animals.
 2. The Morphological Composi-
                                       9. Physiological Integration in
          tion of Plants.                        Animals.
 3. The Morphological Composi-
                                      10. Summary of Physiological De-
          tion of Plants, continued.             velopment.
 4. The Morphological Composi-
                                      10A. The Integration of the
          tion of Animals.                      Organic World.
 5. The Morphological Composi-
                                      PART VI. LAWS OF MULTIPLICA-
         tion of Animals, continued.
 6. Morphological Differentiation                                TION.

           in Plants.                   1. The Factors.
 7. The General Shapes of Plants.
 8. The Shapes of Branches.            2. A Priori Principle.
 9. The Shapes of Leaves.              3. Obverse a priori Principle.
10. The Shapes of Flowers.             4. Difficulties of Inductive Veri-
11. The Shapes of Vegetal Cells.
12. Changes of Shape otherwise                   fication.
                                        5. Antagonism between Growth
            caused.
13. Morphological Differentiation                and Asexual Genesis.
                                        6. Antagonism between Growth
           in Animals.
                                                 and Sexual Genesis.
14. The General Shapes of Ani-          7. Antagonism between Develop-

            mals.                                ment and Genesis, Asexual
15. The Shapes of Vertebrate                     and Sexual.
                                        8. Antagonism between Expen-
           Skeletons.                            diture and Genesis.
16. The Shapes of Animal Cells.         9. Coincidence between high
17. Summary of Morphological                    Nutrition and Genesis.
                                      10. Specialities of these Relations.
           Development.               11. Interpretation and Qualifica-
                                                 tion.
     PART V. PHYSIOLOGICAL            12. Multiplication of the Buman
                                                  Ba.ce.
                  DEVELOPMENT.        13. Human Evolution in the
                                                 Future.
  1. The Problems of Physiology.
  2. Differentiations between the                      APPENDICES.

          Outer and Inner Tissues of  A Criticism on Professor Owen's
           Plants.
  3. Differentiations among the          Theory of the Vertebrate Skele-
           Outer Tissues of Plants.       ton.
  4. Differentiations among the       On Circulation and the Formation
          Inner Tissues of Plants.       of "Wood in Plants.
  5. Physiological Integration in     And six others.
           Plants.
  6. Differentiations between the                                                    A2
          Outer and Inner Tissues of
           Animals.
HERBERT SPENCERS WORKS.

                        Qth Thousand.

In two vols. demy 8vo, cloth, price 36s.,

THE PRINCIPLES OF PSYCHOLOGY.

         CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

PART I. THEDATAOFPSYCHOLOGY          8. The Correspondence as in-
                                              creasing in Complexity.
1. The Nervous System.
2. The Structure of the Nervous      9. The Co-ordination of Cor-

          System.                               respondences.
3. The Functions of the Nervous     10. The Integration of Corres-

System.                                         pondences.
4. The Conditions essential to
                                    11. The Correspondences in their
Nervous Action.                               Totality.

5. Nervous Stimulation  and          PART IV. SPECIAL SYNTHESIS.

Nervous Discharge.                    1. The Nature of Intelligence.
                                     2. The Law of Intelligence.
6. ^Estho-Physiology.                3. The Growth of Intelligence.
                                     4. Reflex Action.
PART II. THE INDUCTIONS OF           5. Instinct.
                                     6. Memory
                   PSYCHOLOGY.        7. Reason.
                                     8. The Feelings.
 1. The Substance of Mind.           9. The Will.
 2. The Composition of Mind.
 3. The Relativity of Feelings.      PART V. PHYSICAL SYNTHESIS.
 4. The Relativity of Relations
                                     1. A Further Interpretation
           between Feelings.
 5. The Revivability of Feelings.              Needed.
 6. The Revivability of Relations    2. The Genesis of Nerves.
                                     3. The Genesis of Simple Ner-
           between Feelings.
 7. The Associability of Feelings.             vous Systems.
 8. The Associability of Relations   4. The Genesis of Compound

           between Feelings.                   Nervous Systems.
 9. Pleasures and Pains.             5. The Genesis of Doubly-Com-

PART III. GENERAL SYNTHESIS.                   pound Nervous Systems.
                                     6. Functions as Related to these
 1. Life and Mind as Correspond-
                                               Structures.
          ence.                      7. Psychical Laws as thus Inter-

2. The Correspondence as Direct                preted.
         and Homogeneous.            8. Evidence from Normal Varia-

3. The Correspondence as Direct                tions.
        but Heterogeneous.           9. Evidence from Abnormal

4. The Correspondence as ex-                   Variations.
        tending in Space.           10. Results.

5 The Correspondence as ex-                            APPENDIX.
         tending in Time
                                    On the Action of Anesthetics and
6. The Correspondence as in-                   Narcotics.
        creasing in Speciality.

7. The Correspondence as in-
         creasing in Generality.
HERBERT SPENCERS WORKS.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.
                                        PART VII. GENERAL ANALYSIS.
PART VI. SPECIAL ANALYSIS.

 1. Limitation of the Subject.          1. The Final Question.
                                        2. The Assumption of Meta-
 2. Compound Quantitative Rea-
          soning.                                physicians.
                                        3. The Words of Metaphysicians.
 3. Compound Quantitative Rea-          4. The Reasonings of Metaphysi-
          soning, continued.
                                                  cians.
 4. Imperfect and Simple Quan-
          titative Reasoning.           5. Negative Justification of Real-

 5. Quantitative Reasoning in                   ism.
           General.
                                        6. Argument from Priority.
 6. Perfect Qualitative Reason-         7 . The Argument from Simplicity
           ing.                         8. The Argument from Distinct-

 7. Imperfect Qualitative Reason-       9.   A  ness.       Wanted.
           ing.
                                                Criterion
 8. Reasoning in General.
                                        10. Propositions qualitatively dis-
 9. Classification, Naming, and
           Recognition.                            tinguished.
                                        11. The Universal Postulate.
10. The Perception of Special Ob-       12. The test of Relative Validity.
            jects.
                                        13. Its Corollaries,
11. The Perception of Body as           14. Positive Justification of Real-
           presenting Dynamical, Sta-
         tico Dynamical, and Stati-               ism,
          cal Attributes.
                                        15. The Dynamics of Conscious-
12. The Perception of Body as
           presenting Statico-Dynami-               ness.
          cal and Statical Attributes.
                                        16. Partial Differentiation of Sub-
13. The Perception of Body as pre-                 ject and Object.
          senting Statical Attributes.
                                        17. Completed Differentiation of
14. The Perception of Space.                       Subject and Object.

15. The Perception of Time.             18. Developed Conception of the
16. The Perception of Motion.
                                                Object,
17. The Perception of Resistance.
                                        19.  Transfigured Realism.    VII.
18. Perception in General.                   Two Postscripts to Part
                                             PART VIII. CON&RUITIES.
19. The Relations of Similarity         1. Preliminary.
          and Dissimilarity.            2. Co-ordination of Data and

20. The Relations of Cointension                Inductions.
           and Non-Cointension.
                                        3. Co-ordination of Syntheses.
21. The Relations of Coextension
           and Non-Coextension.         4. Co-ordination     of Special

22. The Relations of Coexistence                 Analyses.   of General
                                        5. Co-ordination

                                                 Analyses.
                                        6. Final Comparison.

                                             PART IX. COROLLARIES.

           and Non-Coexistence.         1. Special Psychology.
                                        2. Classification.
23. The Relations of Connature          3. Development of Conceptions.
           and Non-Connature.           4. Language of the Emotions.
                                        5. Sociality and Sympathy.
24. The Relations of Likeness and       6. Egoistic Sentiments.
           Unlikeness.                  7. Ego-Altruistic Sentiments.
                                        8. Altruistic Sentiments.
25. The Relation of Sequence.           9. ^Esthetic Sentiments.
26. Consciousness in General.

27. Results.
HERBERT SPENCERS WORKS.

In demy 8vo, cloth.

THE PRINCIPLES OP SOCIOLOGY.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

(4th Thousand, price 21s.)

PART I. THE DATA OF SOCIOLOGY.          24. Nature- Worship.         of
                                        25. Deities.
  1. Super-Organic Evolution.           26. The Primitive Theory
 2. The Factors of Social Phe-
                                                   Things.
            nomena.                     27- The Scope of Sociology.

 3. Original External Factors.          PART II. THE INDUCTIONS OF
 4. Original Internal Factors.
 5. The Primitive Man Physical.                            SOCIOLOGY.
 6. The Primitive Man Emo-
                                         1. What is a Society?
           tional.
 7. The Primitive Man Intel-             2. A Society is an Organism.

           lectual.                      3. Social Growth.
 8. Primitive Ideas.
 9. The Ideas of the Animate and         4. Social Structures.
                                         5. Social Functions.
           the Inanimate.
10. The Ideas of Sleep and Dreams.       6. Systems of Organs.
11. The Ideas of Swoon, Apo-             7. The Sustaining System.
                                         8. The Distributing System.
           plexy, Catelepsy, Ecstasy,    9. The Regulating System.
           and other forms of Insen-    10. Social Types and Constitutions.
          sibility.                     11. Social Metamorphoses.
12. The Ideas of Death and              12. Qualifications and Summary.
           Resurrection.
13. The Ideas of Souls, Ghosts,         PART III. DOMESTIC INSTITU-
           Spirits, Demons.
14. The Ideas of Another Life.                                  TIONS.
15. The Ideas of Another World.
16. The Ideas of Supernatural            1 . The Maintenance of Species.
           Agents.                       2. The Diverse Interests of the

 17. Supernatural Agents as caus-                  Species, of the Parents, and;
          ing Epilepsy and Convul-                of the Offspring.
          sive Actions, Delirium and     3. Primitive Relations of the
          Insanity, Disease and Death.
                                                    Sexes.
 18. Inspiration, Divination, Exor-      4. Exogamy and Endogamy.
            cism, and Sorcery.           5. Promiscuity.

 19. Sacred Places, Temples, and         6. Polyandry.
          Altars ; Sacrifice, Fasting,   7. Polygyny.
          and Propitiation ; Praise      8. Monogamy.
          and Prayer.                    9. The Family.
                                        1(1. The Status of Women.
20. Ancestor-Worship in General         11. The Status of Children.
21. Idol- Worship and Fetich -Wor-
                                        12. Domestic Retrospect and
           ship.                                  Prospect.
22. Animal -Worship.
23. Plant- Worship.
             HERBERT SPENCER'S WORKS.

                     CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

                     (4:th Thousand, price 18s.)

 PART IV. CEREMONIAL INSTI-                 3. Political Integration.

                       TUTIONS.             4. Political Differentiation.

 1. Ceremony in General.                    5. Political Forms and Forces.
 2. Trophies.
 3. Mutilations.                            6. Political Heads Chiefs,
 4. Presents.
 5. Visits.                                         Kings, etc.
                                            7. Compound Political Heads.
 6. Obeisances.                             8. Consultative Bodies.
 7 Forms of Address.
 8. Titles.                                  9. Representative Bodies.
                                            10 Ministries.
      Badges and Costumes.                  11.'
10. Further Class-Distinctions.                       Local Governing Agencies.
11. Fashion.                                12. Military Systems.
2. 1. 9.12. Ceremonial Retrospect and       13. Judicial Systems.

           Prospect.                        14. Laws.

                                            15. Property.
                                            16. Revenue.
        PART V. POLITICAL INSTITU-               The Militant            Type    of

             TIONS.                                    Society.
                                            lg The Industrial Type of
             Preliminary.
             Political Organization     in             Society.                and
                                            19. Political Retrospect
                 General.
                                                      Prospect.

                     CONTENTS OF VOL. 111.

                     (2d Thousand, price 16s.)

             PART VI. ECCLESIASTICAL        15. Ecclesiastical Retrospect and

                        INSTITUTIONS.                  Prospect.
                                            16. Religious Retrospect
3. 2. 1.     The Religious Idea.                                               and
             Medicine-Men and Priests.
                                                      Prospect.

    Priestly Duties of Descendants.                   PART VII. PROFESSIONAL
4. Eldest Male Descendants as                                   INSTITUTIONS.
                                                      Professions in General.
                 Quasi-Priests.             4. 2. 1.
8. 7. 6. 5.  The Ruler as Priest.               Physician and Surgeon.
             The Rise of a Priesthood.      3. Dancer and Musician.
             Polytheistic and Monotheistic
                                                Orator and Poet, Actor and
                 Priesthoods.
                                                     Dramatist.
      Ecclesiastical Hierarchies        a   5. Biographer, Historian, and

 9. An Ecclesiastical System as                     Man of Letters.
                                            6. Man of Science and Philo-
           Social Bond.
                                            9. 8. 7.       sopher.
10. The Military Functions of
                                                      Judge and Lawyer.
           Priests.
11. The Civil Functions of Priests.                   Teacher.
                                                      Architect.
12. Church and State.

13. Nonconformity.                      of  10. Sculptor.
14. The Moral Influences                    11. Painter.
                                            12. Evolution of the Professions.
           Priesthoods.
8 HERBERT SPENCERS WORKS.

   PART VIII. INDUSTRIAL          11. Paternal Regulation.
                INSTITUTIONS.     12. Patriarchal Regulation,
 1. Introductory.                 13. Communal Regulation.
 2. Specialization of Functions   14. Gild Regulation.
                                  15. Slavery.
         and Division of Labour.  16. Serfdom.
 3. Acquisition and Production.   17. Free Labour and Contract.
 4. Auxiliary Production.         18. Compound Free Labour
 5. Distribution.                 19. Compound Capital.
 6. Auxiliary Distribution.       20. Trade-Unions.

 7. Exchange.                     21. Co-operation.
 8. Auxiliary Exchange.           22. Socialism.
 9. Interdependence and Integra-  23. The Near Future.
                                  24. Conclusion.
          tion.

10, The Regulation of Labour.

In two vols. demy 8vo, cloth, price 27s. 6d.

THE PRINCIPLES OF ETHICS.

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

(3rd Thousand, price 15s.)

PART I. THE DATA OF ETHICS.        3. Aggression.               OF
                                   4. Robbery
 1. Conduct in General.            5. Revenge.
 2. The Evolution of Conduct.      6. Justice.
 3. Good and Bad Conduct.          7. Generosity.
 4. Ways of Judging Conduct.       8. Humanity.
 5. The Physical View.             9. Veracity.
 6. The Biological View.          10. Obedience.
 7. The Psychological View.       11. Industry.
 8. The Sociological View.        12. Temperance.
 9. Criticisms and Explanations.  13. Chastity.
10. The Relativity of Pains and   14. Summary of Inductions.

           Pleasures.               PART III. THE ETHICS
11. Egoism versus Altruism.
12. Altruism versus Egoism.                   INDIVIDUAL LIFK.
13. Trial and Compromise.
14. Conciliation.                   1. Introductory.
15. Absolute Ethics and Relative    2. Activity.
                                    3. Rest.
          Ethics.                   4. Nutrition.
16. The Scope of Ethics.            5. Stimulation.
                                    6. Culture.
           APPENDIX.                7. Amusements.
      The Conciliation.             8. Marriage
                                    9. Parenthood.
 PART II. THE INDUCTIONS OF       10. General Conclusions.

                      ETHICS.
  1. The Confusion of Ethical

           Thought.
  2. What Ideas and Sentiments

          are Ethical.
HERBERT SPENCER'S WORKS.

CONTENTS OP VOL. II.

                          (2nd Thousand,  price 12s.

        PART IV. JUSTICE.                   28. The Limits of State-Duties,

 1. Animal-Ethics.                                       continued.
 2. Sub-Human Justice.
 3. Human Justice.                          29. The Limits of State-Duties,
 4. The Sentiment of Justice.
 5. The Idea of Justice.                                 concluded.
 6. The Formula of Justice.
 7. The Authority of this                     PART V. NEGATIVE BENEFI-

          Formula.                                                    CENCE.

 8. Its Corollaries.                         1. Kinds of Altruism.
 9. The Eight to Physical                     2. Eestraints on Free Com-

          Integrity.                                    petition.
     The Eights to free Motion and            3. Eestraints on Free Contract.
                                              4. Eestraints on Undeserved
           Locomotion.
     The Eights to the Uses of                          Payments.
                                              5. Eestraints on Displays of
         Natural Media.
12. The Eight of Property.                            Ability.
13. The Eight of Incorporeal                  6. Eestraints on Blame.
                                               7. Eestraints on Praise.
           Property.                          8. The Ultimate Sanctions.

14 The Eights of Gift and                     PART VI. POSITIVE BENEFI-

           Bequest.                                                   CENCE.
15. The Eights of Free Exchange
                                              1. Marital Beneficence.
           and Free Contract.                 2. Parental Beneficence.
16. The Eight of Free Industry.               3. Filial Beneficence.
17. The Eights of Free Belief and             4. Aiding the Sick and the

          Worship.                                     Injured.
18. The Eights of Free Speech                 5. Succour to the Ill-used and

          and Publication.                              the Endangered.

19. A Eetrospect with an                      6. Pecuniary Aid to Eelatives

          Addition.                                     and Friends.
20. The Eights of Women.                      7. Eelief of the Poor.
21. The Eights of Children.                    8. Social Beneficence.
22. Political Eights so called.               9. Political Beneficence.
23. The Nature of the State.                 10. Beneficence at Lai'ge.
24. The Constitution of the State.
25. Duties of the State.                                      APPENDICES.
26 The Limits of State-Duties.                A. The Kantian Idea of Eights.
27. The Limits of State-Duties,                B. The Land-Question.
                                              C. The Moral Motive.
            continued.                        D. Conscience in Animals.

To be had Separately :

      JUSTICE,

                             3rd Thousand. Price 6s.

              THE DATA OF ETHICS.

Entirely Re-set Uniform with Popular Edition of FIRST
   PRINCIPLES. Paper Wrapper, 2s. 6d. net, cloth, 3s. net.
10 HERBERT SPENCERS WORKS.

          <%r

                            46th Thousand.

          In one vol., crown 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d.,

         EDUCATION :

INTELLECTUAL, MORAL, AND PHYSICAL.

                            CONTENTS.
                                  3. Moral Education.
1. What Knowledge is of most
Worth ?                           4. Physical Education.
2. Intellectual Education.

               BEING A POPULAR EDITION,
ENTIRELY RE-SET IN STYLE UNIFORM WITH

     POPULAR EDITION OF FIRST PRINCIPLES.

                                           4:th Thousand.

                 In one vol., demy 8vo, cloth, price 6s.,

    FACTS AND COMMENTS:

             Consisting of 40 Short Essays on various topics.

ENLARGED EDITION. In one vol. demy 8vo, cloth, price 6s.

     VARIOUS FRAGMENTS.

                      Consisting of 23 Articles.

                                   21st Thousand.
LIBRARY EDITION (2nd Thousand), ivilh a Postscript.

          In one vol. demy 8vo, cloth, price 10s. 6d.,

THE STUDY OP SOCIOLOGY.

                            CONTENTS.

1. Our Need of it.                5. Objective Difficulties.  Intel-
2. Is there a Social Science 1                                Emo-
3. Nature of the Social Science.  6. Subjective Difficulties
                                          lectual.

4. Difficulties of the Social     7. Subjective Difficulties

Science.                                    tional.
HERBERT SPENCERS WORKS. 11

 8. The Educational Bias.            13. Discipline.
 9. The Bias of Patriotism.          14. Preparation in Biology.
                                     15. Preparation in Psychology.
10. The Class-Bias.                  16. Conclusion.
11. The Political Bias.
12. The Theological Bias.                  Postscript.

                                   2nd Thousand.

                In one vol. demy 8vo, cloth, price 10s.,

SOCIAL STATICS & MAN F. STATE.

                CONTENTS OF SOCIAL STATICS.

1. Happiness as an Immediate         13. The Eight of Property in Ideas.
        Aim.                         14. The Eights of Women.
                                     15. The Eights of Children.
2. Unguided Expediency               16. Political Eights.
3. The Moral- Sense Doctrine.
4. What is Morality ?                17. The Constitution of the State.
5. The Evanescence      [? Diminu-   18. The Duty of the State.
        tion] of Evil.
6. Greatest Happiness must be        19. The Limit of State-Duty.

         sought indirectly.          20. The Eegulation of Commerce.
                                     21. Eeligious Establishments.
7. Derivation of a First Principle.  22. Poor Laws.
8. Secondary Derivation of a         23. National Education.
         First Principle.            24. Government Colonization.
 9. First Principle.
10. Application of this First Prin-  25. Sanitary Supervision.
                                     26. Currency, Postal Arrange-
ciple.
11. The Eight of Property.                      ments, etc.
                                     27. General Considerations.

12. Socialism.

CONTENTS OF THE MAN VEKSUS THE STATE.

1. The New Toryism.                  4. The Great Political Supersti-
2. The Coming Slavery.                        tion.
3. The Sins of Legislators.
                                         Postscript.

           Also separately (17th Thousand),
                    In paper wrapper, Is.

THE MAN VEESUS THE STATE.
12 HERBERT SPENCERS WORKS.

              6th Thousand (LIBRARY EDITION).
In three vols. demy 8vo, cloth, price 30s. (or 10s. each).

                  ESSAYS :

SCIENTIFIC, POLITICAL, AND SPECULATIVE.

                       CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

1. The Development Hypothesis.        9. The Origin of Animal Wor-
                                                ship.
2. Progress : Its Law and Cause.
                                     10. Morals and Moral Senti-
3. Transcendental Physiology.                  ments.
4. The Nebular Hypothesis.
5. The Constitution of the Sun.      11. The Comparative Psychology
6. Illogical Geology.                          of Man.
7. Bain on the Emotions and
                                     12. Mr. Martineau on Evolution.
        Will.                        13. The Factors of Organic

8. The Social Organism.                       Evolution.
                                     14. Lord Salisbury on Evolution.

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

1. The Genesis of Science.            9. Prof. Green's Explanations.
                                     10. The Philosophy of Style.
2. The Classification of the         11. Use and Beauty.
                                     12. The Sources of Architectural
          Sciences.
                                               Types.
3. Reasons for Dissenting from       13. Gracefulness.
        the Philosophy of M. Comte.  14. Personal Beauty.
                                     15. The Origin and Function of
4. On Laws in General, and the
        Order of their Discovery.               Music.
                                     16. The Physiology of Laughter.
5. The Valuation of Evidence.        17. The Relations of Biology,
6. What is Electricity 1
                            the                 Psychology and Sociology.
7. Mill versus Hamilton

        Test of Truth.

8. Eeplies to Criticisms.

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

1. Manners and Fashion.               9. State-T amperings with Money
2. Railway Morals and Railway                  and Banks.

        Policy.                      10. Parliamentary Reform : the
3. The Morals of Trade.                         Dangers and the Safe-
4. Prison Ethics.                               guards.
5. The Ethics of Kant.
6. Absolute Political Ethics.        11. "The Collective Wisdom."
7. Over-Legislation.                 12. Political Fetichism.
8. Representative Government         13. Specialized Administration.
                                     14. From Freedom to Bondage.
        What is it good for ?
                                     15. The Americans.

                            ALSO SEPARATELY,                THE

                                            Price 6d.

REASONS FOR DISSENTING FROM
        PHILOSOPHY OF M. COMTE.
HERBERT SPENCERS WORKS. 13

            Ocscriptibt

            HECLRASBSIFEIERD TAND SARPREANNGECDEBRY .
            COMPILED AND ABSTRACTED BIT
DAMVaIdDrasD) U;NRCAICNH, AMR.DA.,SDC.SHc.E, PLPLi.aD,.(lPaht.eD.D;ireacntdorJAoMf PEuSbliCc OInLsLtIrEucRt.ion,
            EXTRACT FROM THE PROVISIONAL PREFACE.
  In preparation for The Principles of Sociology,  requiring   aa bases of induction large accu-
mulations of data, fitly arranged for comparison,   I, some   twelve years ago, commenced, by

proxy, the collection and organization of facts presented by societies of different types, past
and present; being fortunate enough to secure the services of gentlemen competent to
carry on the process in the way I wished. Though this classified compilation of materials
was entered upon solely to facilitate my own work ; yet, after having brought the mode of
classification to a satisfactory form, and after having had some of the Tables filled up, I
decided to have the undertaking executed with a view to publication ; the facts collected
and arranged for easy reference and convenient study of their relations, being so presented,
apart from hypothesis, as to aid all students of Social Science in testing such conclusions as
they have drawn and in drawing others.
_ _The Work consists of three large Divisions. Each comprises a set of Tables exhibiting

the facts as abstracted and classified, and a mass of quotations and abridged abstracts other-
wise classified, on which the statements contained in the Tables are based. The condensed
statements, arranged after a uniform manner, give, in each Table or succession of Tables,
the phenomena of all orders which each society presents constitute an account of its mor-
phology, its physiology, and (if a society having a known history) its development. On the
other hand, the collected Extracts, serving as authorities for the statements in the Tables, are
(or. rather will be, when the Work is complete) classified primarily according to the kinds of
phenomena to which they refer, and secondarily according to the societies exhibiting these
phenomena; so that each kind of phenomenon as it is displayed in all societies may be
separately studied with convenience.

   In further explanation I may say that the classified compilations and digests of materials
to be thus brought together under the title of Descriptive Sociology, are intended to supply the
student of Social Science with data, standing towards his conclusions in a relation like that
in which accounts of the structures and functions of different types of animals stand to the
conclusions of the biologist. Until there had been such systematic descriptions of different
kinds of organisms, as made it possible to compare the connexions, and forms, and actions,
and modes of origin, ot their parts, the Science of Life could make no progress. And in
like manner, before there can be reached in Sociology, generalizations having a certainty
making them worthy to be called scientific, there must be definite accounts of the institu-
tions and actions of societies of various types, and in various stages of evolution, so arranged
__as to furnish the means of readily ascertainine what social phenomena are habitually

associated.
            iIn Royal Folio, Price 18s.,
JvNro. Iy.  ETIAJNT/l^jrTLlbOtTiT.      COMPILED AND ABSTRACTED BY

                                              JAMES COLLIER.

                         In Royal Folio, Price 16s.,

No. II. MEXICANS, CENTRAL
          AMERICANS, CHIBCHAS, AND
            PTT,T^TTVT ATCS
                                          COMPILED AND ABSTRACTED BY

                                        RICHARD SCHEPPIG-, PH.D.

No. III.        In Royal Folio, Price 18s.,

            LOWEST RACES, NEGRITO
RACES, AND MALAYO-POLYNESIAN
            "P A r^TTft             COMPILED AND ABSTRACTED BY

                         DAVID DUNCAN, M.A., D.Sc., LL.D.
TYPES OF LOWEST EACES. Fuegians, Andamanese, Veddahs,
Australians. NEGRITO RACES. Tasmanians, New Caledonians, etc.,
New Guinea People, Fijians. MALAYO-POLYNESIAN RACES. Sandwich
Islanders, Tahitians, Tongans, Samoans, New Zealanders, Dyaks,
Javans, Sumatrans, Malagasy.
14 HERBERT SPENCERS WORKS.

                        In Royal Folio, Price 16s.,

No. IV. AFRICAN RACES.

                 DAVID DUNCAN, M.A., D.Sc., LL.D.

     Bushmen, Hottentots, Damaras, Bechuanas, Kaffirs, East Africans,
Congo People, Coast Negroes, Inland Negroes, Dahomans, Ashantis,
Fulahs, Abyssinians.

\VM/~ov. VT.  In Royal Folio, Price 18s.,

              AA bQTlAA TITIC/^ "RPAAGf^ETSTd.  COMPILED AND
                                                ABSTRACTED BY

              DAVID DUNCAN, M.A., D.Sc., LL.D.

     Arabs, Todas, Khonds, Gonds, Bhils, Santals, Karens, Kukis,
Nagas, Bodo and Dhimals, Mishmis, Kirghiz, Kalmucks, Ostyaks,
Kamtschadales.

                          In Royal Folio, Price 1 8s.,

No. VI. AMERICAN RACES. ^SSL
                DAVID DUNCAN, M.A., D.Sc., LL.D.

     Esquimaux, Chinooks, Snakes, Comanches, Iroquois, Chippewayans,
Chippewas, Dakotas, Mandans, Creeks, Guiana Tribes, Caribs,
Brazilians, Uaup6s, Abipones, Patagonians, Araucanians.

                            In Royal Folio, Price 21s.,

No. VII. HEBREWS AND PHOENICIANS.

   COMPILED AND ABSTRACTED BY RICHARD SCHEPPIG, PH.D.

              fn Royal Folio, Price 30s.,

. VVTlTlTl.   FTnCuFiINMT^ITnT.  COMPILED AND ABSTRACTED       BY

                                      JAMES COLLIER.

                  In Preparation.

Edited by HENRY R. TEDDER, Secretary and Librarian of the
                  Athenaeum Club.

CHINESE       COMPILED AND E. T. C. WERNER,
              ABSTRACTED BY      H .M.' 8 Consular Service, China.

ANCIENT EGYPTIANS.
HELLENIC GREEKS. BY
      REV. DR.J.P.MAHAFFY,and PKOFESSOR W. A. GOLIGHER,
       Trinity College, Dublin.

HELLENISTIC GREEKS. By the same.

ROMANS.       BY       MR ' E- H- ALTON, F.T.C.D.,
                  and PROFESSOR W. A. GOLIGHER.
HERBERT SPENCERS WORKS.

                 Plf '*AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY,
With a number of Illustrations, some in Photogravure,
                               2 Vols., 28s. net.

  A SYSTEM OF      .  S*YNTHETIC  PHILOSOPHY.
FlBST PKJNCIPL ES
                                        *ead 7* 6 A

PlUNCIPLESOFBtOLOGY. 2 Vols.                          36*.

PRINCIPLES OF PSYCHOLOGY. 2 vols. 6th Thou. 36s.

PRINCIPLES OF SOCIOLOGY. Vol. I. 4th Thou. 21 s.
                       Vol. II. 4th TAo. 18s.
DITTO                  III.Vol.
DITTO                                    2nd Thou. 165.

PRINCIPLES OF ETHICS, Vol. I. 3rd Thou... 15 S.
                      Vol. II. 2nd Thou. 12s. 6d
DITTO

JUSTICE (separately). 3rd Thousand             . . 6s.

THE DATA OF ETHICS (separately].

                                           Sewed, 2s. 6d. net, cloth, 3s. net.

                       OTHER WORKS.

THE STUDY OF SOCIOLOGY. 2 is* Thousand. 10s. 6rf.

EDUCATION". Popular Edition. 46th Thousand. 2s. 6d.

ESSAYS. 3 vols. Gth Thousand      ..           ..

(Each Volume may be had separately, price 10*.)
SOCIAL STATICS & MAN v. STATE, in one
                      .. .. . .
vol. 2nd Thousand

TEE MAN v. THE STATE (separately), nth Thou.           Is.

FACTS AND COMMENTS. 4th Thousand.              . . 65.

VARIOUS FRAGMENTS. Enlarged Edition. . .              6s.

REASONS FOR DISSENTING FROM              THE          6d.
                                                      6d,
       PHILOSOPHY OF M. COMTE . .           ..
                                             ..
A REJOINDER TO PROF. WEISMANN

WEISMANNISM ONCE MORE             .. ..               6d.
                                                      3d.
AGAINST THE METRIC SYSTEM.         r     !*,laddit.i>ons

                                  tvith
[For particulars see end of the volume.]

               WILLIAMS AND NORGATE,

14, HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN, LONDON, W.C.
HERBERT SPENCER'S & W. G. SPENCER'S WORKS.

                        HERBERT SPENCER'S

DESCRIPTIVE SOCIOLOGY,

COMPILED AND ABSTRACTED BY

DR. DUNCAN, DR. SCHEPPIG, & MR. COLLIER.

FOLIO, BOARDS.

1. ENGLISH .. .. ..        ..   .. 18,9.
                           ..   .. 16s.
2. ANCIENT AMERICAN RACES

3. LOWEST RACES, NEGRITOS, POLYNESIANS 18s.

4. AFRICAN RACES . . . . . .                     16s.

5. ASIATIC RACES . . . . . . . . 18s.

6. AMERICAN RACES  .. .. .. 18s.

7. HEBREWS AND PHOENICIANS . .  . . 21s.

8. FRENCH . . . . . . . . . . 30s.

[For particulars and announcement of works in
             preparation, see end of the volume.]

              ALSO, BY W. G. SPENCER

                        (Herbert Spencer s Father),

             Crown Svo, Cloth, price Is. each,

   INTENTIONAL GEOMETRY,

                             (Third Thousand),
           With a Preface by HERBERT- SPENCER.

                               AND

A SYSTEM OF LUCID SHORTHAND,

            WILLIAMS AND NORGATE,

14, HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN, LONDON.

Harrison and Sons, Printers, St. Martin's Lane.
                        UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY

                                                         Los Angeles
                         This hook is DUE on the last date stamped helow.

24139
                                               A 000 038 299 4

                 University of California
SOUTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY

       Return this material to the library
            from which it was borrowed.

SRUF  3CT f
QL

