Memories of my life / by Francis Galton.

Galton, Francis, Sir, 1822-1911.
London : Methuen, 1908.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/nyp.33433038338046

                                          Public Domain in the United States,
                                          Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address. The digital
                                                          images and OCR of this work were produced by Google,
                                                          Inc. (indicated by a watermark on each page in the
                                                          PageTurner). Google requests that the images and OCR
                                                          not be re-hosted, redistributed or used commercially.
                                                          The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
                                                          non-commercial purposes.
33)i-S2$0
MEMORIES OF MY LIFE
MEMORIES OF

    MY LIFE

                                                   BY

V FRANCIS GALTON, F.R.S.
                                                            i
                         D.C.L., OXF. ; HON. SOD., CAMB.
               HON. FELLOW TRINITY COLL., CAMBRIDGE

                                    WITH SEVEN ILLUSTRATIONS

                         /
                     METHUEN & CO.
                 36 ESSEX STREET W.C.

                            LONDON
THE NEW YORK

PUBLIC LIBRARY

 801473 A

  ASTOR,  LEHQK AND
          KJUWDATIONS
TlLD*t-H  1U36  u

First Published in 1908
                PREFACE

' I '"HESE "Memories" are arranged under the

           subjects to which they refer, and only partially

in chronological order. A copious list of my memoirs

will be found in the Appendix with dates attached to
them. These show what inquiries were going on at
or about any specified year. The titles of books are
printed in heavy letters. They summarise, as a rule,
the best parts of the corresponding memoirs up to
the dates of their publication. Nevertheless, a con

siderable quantity of matter remains in the memoirs

as yet unused in that way.

    It has been a difficulty throughout to determine

how much to insert and how much to omit. I have

done my best, but fear I have failed through over-

omission.

     The method of that most useful volume, the
Index and Epitome of the Dictionary of the National
Biography, has been adopted, of adding to each
name the dates of birth and death. They serve for
identification and for giving a correct idea of the age
of each man as compared with those with whom he
was associated. The dates are mostly taken from
the Dictionary, so the reader will nearly always find
in that work a biography of the person in question.
            

If CHAP.

......I. PARENTAGE
              CONTENTS
......V. CAMBRIDGE
......VI. EGYPT AND THE SOUDAN--(map)                            PACK
IL CHILDHOOD AND BOYHOOD          .  .             .
                                  .  .             .  ...214238I
III. MEDICAL STUDIES      .          .             .
                                                      .8358
IV. SHORT TOUR TO THE EAST .         .             .

VII. SYRIA                                             IOI
.110VIII. HUNTING AND SHOOTING
                                  .  .             .
                                     . . .121
IX. SOUTH-WEST AFRICA -- (««/)

X. LANDS OF THE DAMARAS, OVAMPO, AND NAMAQUAS .        1 38
 XL AFTER RETURN HOME -- MARRIAGE . . . 152

.161XII. "ART OF TRAVEL" . . .
.169xiii. social life-- (medallions) . . .
.198XIV. GEOGRAPHY AND EAST AFRICA . .
.....XVIII. COMPOSITE PORTRAITS AND STEREOSCOPIC MAPS
XV. BRITISH ASSOCIATION.           . . . . 213

XVI. KEW OBSERVATORY AND          .224METEOROLOGY -- (meteoro
                                    ...
logical tracings)         .

XVII. ANTHROPOMETRIC LABORATORIES    .             .  . 244

                                                      . 259

......XIX. HUMAN FACULTY                        .  .         266
                                                   .
 XX. HEREDITY . . .                  Candicans)       .287
xxi. race improvement -- (Galtonia
                                                      . 310

APPENDIX. -- BOOKS AND MEMOIRS BY THE AUTHOR .         325
                                                       33 1
PRINCIPAL AWARDS AND DEGREES .                     .

INDEX                                                  332

                             vii
        ............LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
Portrait                                                    Frontispiece

            From the Painting by C. W. FURSE, A.R.A.

Portrait                                                    Facing p. 244

From a Photograph.

            IN THE TEXT

Egypt and Syria .   .                                 ..       PAGE
                                                            . 88
Damaraland         ...                                   .
                                                            .129
Yearly Medallions   ....                                    .196
                                                            -237
Meteorological Tracings .        .
                                                            . 323
Galtonia Candicans  .                                 .

                           Tiii
MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

                     CHAPTER I

                     PARENTAGE

Birthplace -- Grandparents -- Dr. Erasmus Darwin -- Lunar Society --
           Captain Barclay Allardice-- Mrs. Schimmelpenninck

J UST before the arrival of the letter in which my

      publisher asked me to write the memories of

       my life, I happened to be reading Shakespeare's

Henry IV. and laughing over Falstaff s soliloquy after

the gross exaggerations by Justice Shallow of his own
youthful performances. It contained the sentence,
" Lord, Lord, how subject we old men are to this
                  "
vice  of  lying      Feeling the truth of his ejaculation,
                 !

I headed the first page of my memorandum-book

with those words as a warning, knowing how difficult

it is to be veracious about long-past events, threads

of imagination insinuating themselves among those

supplied by memory and becoming indistinguishable

from them.

      Many old notebooks and letters are, however, in

my possession which have helped me ; but my two

latest surviving sisters, whose minds were sure store

houses of family events, and to whom I always
referred whenever I wanted a date or particulars of

a long-past fact, are now both dead, the one at the
2 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

age of ninety-three and the other at ninety-seven,

each with a clear and vigorous mind to nearly the

very end of her life. I have hardly any contempor

ary friends left who could aid in recalling the circum

stances of my childhood and boyhood. With rare

exceptions, "All, all are gone, the old familiar faces."

     I was born on February 16, 1822, at the Larches,

near Sparkbrook, Birmingham, with which town my
father Samuel Tertius, my grandfather Samuel John,

and my great-grandfather Samuel Galton, were all

closely connected. Different members of the family

had resided or were resident at various points beyond

the circumference of the town, in houses then amidst

green fields, but now overspread beyond recognition

by its hideous outskirts.

comMmyonlgyrawndriftatethner"'sDupdlascoen."wasItsat   Duddeston,        then
                                                      gardens had        been

charmingly laid out by my great-grandfather and

improved by my grandfather. The house, which was
once a centre of refined entertainment, gradually

lost its charm of isolation ; later on, it wholly ceased

to be attractive as a residence. It was then leased

by my father to the proprietor of a lunatic asylum,

because, as he remarked, no one in his senses would

live in it. It is now turned into St. Anne's School,

with its porticoes and other outer adornments shorn

off, and with its once beautiful gardens changed into

the sites of railway sidings and gasworks. I re

member it distinctly in its beauty in the year 1830,

which was two years before my grandfather's death.

    The Larches, where I was born, had some

three acres of garden and field attached to                              with
                     ;

                       it
                                                                    it,
other fields beyond        was a paradise for my child
PARENTAGE  3

hood. Its site is now covered with small houses.

The two fine larches that flanked it gave me a love

for that tree, which persists and is still recognisably

associated with its origin.

     My six nearest progenitors, namely the two

parents and four grandparents, were markedly different

in temperament and tastes, and they have be
queathed very different combinations of them to their
descendants. I can only partly touch on these.

     My grandfather, Samuel John Galton (1753-
1832), was a scientific and statistical man of business.
He was a Fellow of the provincially famous Lunar

Society, whose members met at one another's houses
on the day and night of the full moon, and which,

though small in numbers, was so select as to include

Priestley, Dr. Erasmus Darwin, Keir the chemist,
Withering the botanist, Watt, and Boulton. Full
particulars of the Lunar Society are to be found in
Smiles' Life of Boulton, and elsewhere.

     I may mention that the late Sir Rowland Hill, of

penny-postage fame, told me that the event which
first gave him a taste for science was the present of a
small electrical machine made to him when a boy, by

my grandfather.
     Samuel John Galton was very fond of animals.

He kept many bloodhounds ; he loved birds, and

wrote an unpretentious little book about them in

three small volumes, with illustrations. He had

a decidedly statistical bent, loving to arrange all
kinds of data in parallel lines of corresponding lengths,

and frequently using colour for distinction. My
father, and others of Samuel John Galton's children,

inherited this taste in a greater or less degree ; it rose
4 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

to an unreasoning instinct in one of his daughters.

She must have been an acceptable customer to her

bookbinder on that account, as the number of ex

pensively bound volumes that she ordered from time

to time, each neatly ruled in red, and stamped and

assigned to some particular subject or year, is hardly

credible. I begged for a bagful of them after her

death, to keep as a psychological curiosity, and have

it still ; the rest were destroyed. She must have

collected these costly books to satisfy a pure instinct,

for she turned them to no useful account, and rarely

filled more than a single page, often not so much of

each of them. She habitually used a treble inkstand,

with black, red, and blue inks, employing the distinctive

colours with little reason, but rather with regard to

their pictorial effect. She was perhaps not over-wise,

yet she was by no means imbecile, and had many

qualities that endeared her to her nephews and

nieces.

     Samuel John Galton was a successful man of
business. He was a manufacturer, and became a

contractor on a large scale for the supply of muskets

to the army during the great war. Birmingham

offered at that time a good field for the business of a

contractor, because its manufactories were many and

of moderate size, and central organisations were
wanting. The Soho works of Boulton and Watt for

steam-engines were almost the only large works at

that time. My grandfather prospered in his business
as a "Captain of Industry," to use the phrase applied
to him in a book treating of Birmingham. He

founded a Bank to help  it,  which was gradually

brought to a close some few years after the war had
                  PARENTAGE                              5

ceased. He died in 1832, leaving a fortune of some

,£12,000 a year, of which about a quarter went to

each of his three sons, of whom my father was the

eldest, and the rest between his three daughters.

     The Galton family had been Quakers for many

generations. They came to Birmingham from

Somersetshire, in the time of my great-grandfather,

Samuel Galton (1 720-1 799). Some of its earlier
members are buried at Yatton. There is a hamlet

in Dorsetshire called Galton, adjacent to Owre

Moigne, with which one at least of our name, and

apparently a far back relative, was connected many

generations ago.

My grandmother Galton (1757-1817) was also of
Quaker stock, being daughter of Robert Barclay of
       a descendant of Robert
Ury,   Apologist," as he used  Barclay  (1648- 1690)
" the                           to be   named from

his work, Barclay's Apology, which, to quote the

Dictionary of National Biography, is the standard

exposition of the tenets of his sect, of which the

essential principle is that "all true knowledge comes

from divine revelation to the heart of the individual."

My grandmother's half-brother, Robert Barclay

Allardice (1779-1854), commonly known as "Captain

Barclay," was a noted athlete and pedestrian, and in

later years an active agriculturist. When upwards
of seventy years old he was dining at my father's

house in Leamington, and on being asked, while

sitting at dessert, whether he still performed any

feats of strength, he asked my eldest brother, then a

fully adult man of more than 12 stone in weight,

to step on his hand, which he laid palm upwards on

the floor by slightly bending his body. My brother
6 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

was desired to steady himself by laying one finger on

Captain Barclay's shoulder, who thereupon lifted and

landed him on the table. I was not present at the

feat, but heard it often described by word and gesture.

However, the Captain rather strained his shoulder

by performing as he confessed to my father after
        (1
wards. Captain Barclay's endurance of long continuedit,
fatigue was exceptional to a very high degree. The

memoirs of his life are well worth reading.

My grandmother's half-sister was wife of Hudson

Gurney 775-1 864), "antiquary and verse writer,
friend of Lord Aberdeen," to again quote the Index

to the Dict. Nat. Biog. He was a man of large

fortune, and my two sisters, Bessy and Emma, paid

long visits to his house in St. James's Square, where
his wife was very kind to them, and where they saw

much good London society.

My grandfather and grandmother Galton were

practically Quakers all their lives, and so was one of
their daughters, but the rest of their children fell off

and joined the Established Church. Still, we saw not

  little of our Quaker relations. A story was current

in our family about myself, as a shy and naughty
a
child, being quite subdued by the charm of Mrs. Fry
          I
(1780-1845). She did not even look at me, but
                                                    and
merely held out her open hand with comfits   in

                                                I it,
                                                                      ;
went on speaking to others in her singularly sweet

voice.       gradually worked my way nearer to her

then she quietly took me on her knees, where sat

for long in perfect content.

My grandparents on the other side were Darwins,

my grandfather being Dr. Erasmus Darwin 73 1-(
1802), physician, poet, and philosopher, and the very1
                   PARENTAGE                                                     7

reverse of an ascetic or of a Quaker. He was
grandfather to me by his second wife ; and to Charles

R. Darwin (1 809-1 882), the great naturalist, by his
first wife. His hereditary influence seems to have
been very strong. His son Charles, who died at the

early age of twenty from a dissection wound, was a

medical student of extraordinary promise ; and the

medical sagacity of another son, Dr. Robert Darwin

of Shrewsbury, the father of Charles R. Darwin, is

amply attested. I stayed for a night or two at the

house of the latter while I was a boy and too young

to form any opinion of him worth recording ; besides,

I was rather awe-stricken.

     My grandmother Darwin (1747- 183 the second
wife of Dr. Erasmus Darwin, was the widow of
       It

            is
                              I
                                                                            2),

                                                                        I
Colonel E. Sacheverel Chandos-Pole, and, judging

from her portrait when young, a lady of remarkable

grace and beauty.  saw her in her kindly old age

when she lived at the Priory near Derby, but know

little with certainty of her early life and character.

She died at the age of eighty-five, her mother at ninety-

six. perhaps partly through her that the ex

ceptional longevity of my mother and her sons and

daughters has been derived. My mother died just

short of ninety, my eldest brother at eighty-nine, two

sisters, as already mentioned, atninety-three and ninety-

seven respectively; my surviving brotheris ninety-three

and in good health. My own age now only eighty-
     A

           I
                                                            is

                                                                           a
six, but may possibly be prolonged another year or

more.  find old age thus far to be very happy

time, on the condition of submitting frankly to its

many limitations.

       half-sister of my mother married Captain,
8 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

afterwards Lord Byron, cousin and successor to the

poet in the title. They were very kind to my sisters

in their schooldays and after.

     Now, as to my two parents and their brothers
and sisters. My father, Samuel Tertius Galton

(1783- 1 844), the third in descent of the name of
Samuel, was one of the most honourable and kindly
of men, and eminently statistical by disposition. He

wrote a small book on currency, with tables, which

testifies to his taste. He had a scientific bent, having

about his house the simple gear appropriate to those
days, of solar microscope, orrery, telescopes, mountain

barometers without which he never travelled, and so

forth. A sliding rule adapted to various uses was

his constant companion. He was devoted to
Shakespeare, and revelled in Hudibras; he read

Tom Jones through every year, and was gifted with
an abundance of humour. Nevertheless, he became

a careful man of business, on whose shoulders the

work of the Bank chiefly rested in troublous times.

Its duties had cramped much of the joy and aspirations

of his early youth and manhood, and narrowed the

opportunity he always eagerly desired, of abundant
leisure for systematic study. As one result of this

drawback to his own development, he was earnestly

desirous of giving me every opportunity of being
educated that seemed feasible and right. He was the

eldest son.  ·

The second son, Hubert, married a sister of

Robert Barclay, the banker. They had three
daughters, who all died unmarried -- two while young,

the other in advanced age.

     The youngest son, John Howard, married Isa
PARENTAGE  9

bella Strutt, a lady of considerable fortune, and built
Hadzor, near Droitwich, a large house, with much
artistic taste. He enjoyed varied society, and made
Hadzor an important social centre.

     My uncle Howard was father to Sir Douglas
Galton, K.C.B. (1822-1899), an eminent authority on
engineering, sanitation, and much else. Sir Douglas

held a record position in the examination at
Woolwich for entry into the Royal Engineers, being

first in every subject (see Diet. Nat. Biog.\ Curi

ously enough, though we cousins were both addicted

to science, and belonged alike to many scientific
societies, and were both Secretaries of the British

Association, our paths rarely crossed, except socially,

for we were interested in quite different branches
of science.

     My father's eldest sister, Mary Anne (1 778-1 856),
was a lady of some note as Mrs. Schimmelpenninck,
more briefly known to us by repute as " Aunt Skim."

A most unhappy feud separated her from all the

rest of the family. It is not my duty, and it would

certainly give me no pleasure, to enter into what
the older members of the family conceived to have

been frequent and mischievous misrepresentations.

 I would rather dwell on the facts that she was highly

accomplished and handsome, and that she acquired
many fast friends, as shown in the Life of the Gurneys

of Earlham and in her own Memoirs. Also that

 she lived in the reputation of much sterling piety
at Bristol, and that three of my own friends, of totally
 different temperaments, who knew her well, and of

 whom I inquired particularly, all spoke in pleasant
 memory of her and her eccentric ways. They were
10 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Prof. W. B. Carpenter (18 13-1885) the physiologist,

J. Gwyn Jeffreys (1 809-1 885), conchologist, etc., and

Sir Lewis Pelly, K.C.B. (1825-1892), Indian soldier
and diplomatist. She wrote a book on Port Royal,
and left a valuable library of Port Royalist literature
to Sion College, which Mrs. Romanes told me was
of great service to her in writing her recent history
of that establishment. For more, see Dict. Nat.

Biog.

     I wish I could have learnt more details than I
possess of another brother of my father, Theodore
Galton (1784-18 10), who left England for the grand

tour, picked up many curios in Spain and Greece,
and, returning in health from the East, was placed in

quarantine at Malta. The quarantine establishment

was attacked by the plague ; he caught it and it killed

him. He had the highest reputation in the family
for his natural gifts, mental and bodily. There is
a touching notice of him in the Annual Register.

     My mother was A. Violetta Darwin (1 783-1874).

I have heard from older friends, long since passed
away, many charming stories of her as a young
bride. She, as I understand, had nothing of the
Quaker temperament, but was a joyous and uncon

ventional girl. In her later life she formed the
centre of our family during thirty years of widowhood,

after my father's comparatively early death at the
age of sixty. She was very methodical in her
papers and accounts, and a most affectionate mother
to myself. One curious faculty of hers deserves

record. It was the ease with which she took in

mentally, and afterwards reproduced in rough archi
tectural drawing, the arrangement of any house she
PARENTAGE  11

knew. Her method was to fold a strip of paper

by doubling, quartering, and so on, into sixteen
portions of equal lengths, and to use this strip of

paper as a sixteen-foot scale wherewith to draw her
rude but graphic plans. One of her children, my
dear sister Lucy Harriot Moilliet (1809- 1848), had
an exceptional faculty for perspective drawing ; she
drew elaborate interiors with very little previous

instruction.

     As to my other brothers and sisters, they were

most diverse in character, yet with a certain common
resemblance which struck strangers. I shall have
occasion to speak more of them later on in the

course of my narrative.
     The general result of the foregoing is that I

acknowledge the debt to my progenitors of a con
siderable taste for science, for poetry, and for sta

tistics ; also that I seem to have received, partly
through the Barclay blood, a rather unusual power

of enduring physical fatigue without harmful results,
of which there is much evidence when I was young.

My father had this power in his early manhood, and

it was well marked in my eldest brother and in
others of the family. I suffer now from bronchitis
with occasional asthma, which has been traced to

my great-grandfather, Samuel Galton, and has de
scended in a greater or less degree through all his

children who left issue. My father had a strong

constitution otherwise, but he suffered terribly from
hay asthma, which first attacked him as a youth. I
escaped fairly well from any form of it until I was
nearly eighty years old ; and it is not hay that

especially brings it on now, but warm carpeted rooms.
12 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

There are few apartments more pleasant to most
persons to read in than the drawing-room of the
Athenaeum Club ; I know of none that are now
more apt to prove distressing to my throat and

lungs.
                   CHAPTER II

                  CHILDHOOD AND BOYHOOD

      Sisters and brothers-- Sisterly teachings -- Schools at Boulogne,
                                  Kenilworth, and Birmingham

I WAS born into a family of four sisters and two
        brothers, who were older than myself by ages
ranging from seven to fourteen years, the brothers

being all younger than the sisters. My third sister,

Adele, was twelve years my senior. She had spinal
curvature, and was obliged to lie all day on her back
upon a board, and was thus cut off from the romps
and companionship of her sisters, though all were
greatly attached to her. She hailed my arrival into
the world as a fairy gift, and begged hard to be
allowed to consider me as her sole ward, and in her
simple way educated herself as best she could, in

order to be able to teach me. Her idea of education

at that time was to teach the Bible as a verbally
inspired book, to cultivate memory, to make me
learn the merest rudiments of Latin, and above all

a great deal of English verse. This she did effec

tually, and the result was that she believed, and
succeeded in making others believe, that I was a
sort of infant prodigy.

      There exist numerous records of my early perform
ances, and it is certain that I really knew at a very
»4 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

early age a great deal of Scott, of Milton, and of

Pope's translation of the Iliad and Odyssey, and that

I delighted in what the family nicknamed " spouting "
verse. In middle life I feared that I had been an

intolerable prig, and cross-questioned many old family

friendsIt Iabout       but  bwutasseeinmveadriatboly"                                 assured that
was not  at all     prig,                                                             spout " for pure
           is    a                                                                    ;
                   I
                            it,                                                                I
                                                                                                        I
enjoyment and without any affectation that oftenI

quoted very aptly on the spur of the moment, and                                   ;

that was a nice little child. My memories become

more or less continuous from about the age of five

or six, when was trotted off to live at dame's school
                                                                                      Ia
a mile away. During these and many subsequent

years, my sister Adele had the greater share of my

heart, and whenever was at home stayed by her

sofa-side most of the day. My other sisters teased

and petted me alternately they were relatively too

old to be really companions.

         curious how unchangeable characters are my
                                                                                          :

eldest sister was just, my youngest was merciful.

When my bread was buttered for me as a child, the

former picked out the butter that filled the big holes,

the latter did not. Consequently                                                      respected the
I
                                           I

                                                       in

                                                        I
                                                             I

                                                                               I
former, and loved the latter. A memory of this

trifling occurrence remained inseparably connected

in my mind with these dear sisters all my life, and

often amused them by referring to it.

       My second sister, Lucy, married before was ten

years old. She was bright, lovable, and very original.

Her house was like a second home to me during the

four years of boyhood that spent at Birmingham.

have indeed been fortunate receiving the sisterly

affection that has fallen to my lot.
CHILDHOOD AND BOYHOOD  15

     But I must not stop at this period of my remin
iscences to speak of other sisters than Adele, with
whom my heart was then so intimately associated.

I am enormously indebted to the influence of her

pious, serene, and resolute disposition. Though she
was compelled to pass the greater part of her life
lying on her back, she was so energetic in other ways,
and so capable of endurance, that she overcame
difficulties that would have been insurmountable to

most women who were equally handicapped. She
was active in setting up schools and teaching the
poor. She had a considerable correspondence, and
exerted a wide influence among all classes during

many years. Her natural capacity was of an unusually

high order, and many who knew her well, and whose
opinions deserve respect, thought that a slight better
ment of opportunity and circumstances might have
caused her name to be as widely loved and known
as those of any of our English saints or heroines.
She passed her life under an abiding sense of the
presence of God and of duty to man, without which
few persons have ever done great things. She was
most unconventional in her ways, and her remarkable

courage was recognised by all the family.

     She married a clergyman, the Rev. Shirley
Bunbury, shortly after my father's death in 1844,
but was left a widow soon afterwards, with one little

girl, on whom she lavished the same educational care

that she had bestowed upon myself, but with fuller

knowledge. That little girl is now in her turn a widow,

with a large and grown-up family. She was married
in 1866 to John C. Baron Lethbridge of Tregeare, in
Cornwall, about six miles west of Launceston.
16 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

     I think I can revive my principal feelings at that

early age with fair correctness, their change during
growth seeming to have been chiefly due to the

increased range of mental prospect. The horizon of
a child is very narrow and his sky very near. His
father is the supreme of beings. He has to learn by

slow degrees that there are more and more appreciable
stages between the highest and the lowest, and the
number of such stages that he can discriminate affords
a good measure of his mental calibre at the time.

It was about the date of which I have been speaking

that my second brother, Erasmus, then a boy of twelve
or thirteen, entered the navy, and showed himself to

us in his uniform, with the dagger or "dirk" that

was part of it. I, a child of five or so, fingered it
with awe, and with my little head full of Greeks and
Trojans looked upon him as a hero, like Achilles,
and can perfectly recall my sense of increased security
from knowing that England could henceforth avail
herself of his puissant arm and terrible weapon.

     I lived and throve in what was practically the
country until the age of eight, when I was sent to a
school at Boulogne, whither my father escorted me.

It was erroneously supposed that I should learn

French there and acquire a good accent. What I

did learn was the detestable and limited patois that
my eighty schoolfellows were compelled to speak
under penalty of a fine, and in this cruel way. There
were transferable metal labels which were called
" marks," and the boys in whose possession these

marks remained after each playtime received a bad

record whose accumulation up to a certain point
entailed punishment. I rebelled with my whole heart
             CHILDHOOD AND BOYHOOD                                    17

against the  t"remaacrhke"ryinenhciosupraogcekdet  by this   system.    A
boy with a                                          would   sidle up
                                                                      and

encourage you as he      best  cclaopupldedtohissay"        a word of
English, then forthwith    he                               mark " into

your hand, and went away rejoicing at the riddance.
     The school was an old convent near to and within

the Calais gate of the upper town ; the playground
was the paved square of the convent, in which we

used the flat gravestones for playing marbles. It is

now partly overbuilt by the large church whose dome

is conspicuous from afar.

     We were daily marched off in a long row of pairs,

usually for a walk round the ramparts, sometimes

to Napoleon's Column, then in process of building, and

in the summer, not infrequently, to bathe by rocks near

the old fort. We prepared ourselves for the latter

grateful occasions by saving bread from breakfast ;

then, after having gathered mussels, we spread their

delicious contents on it to eat. An opportunity was
then afforded of inspecting with awe the marks of

recent birchings, which were reckoned as glorious
scars. The birchings were frequent and performed
in a long room parallel to, and separated from, the

schoolroom by large ill-fitting doors, through which
each squeal of the victim was heard with hushed

breaths. In that room was a wardrobe full of school-

books ready for issue. It is some measure of the

then naivete of my mind that I wondered for long
how the books could have been kept so fresh and

clean for nearly two thousand years, thinking that the
copies of Caesar's Commentaries were contemporary
with Caesar himself.

     An occasional walk was to a wet plantation on the

2
i8 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

side of the little river Liane, that feeds the harbour,

at which one of our schoolfellows, a gaunt, dyspeptic-
looking boy, performed the following feat to our
terror and admiration, as we crowded round him to see
it. He took a frog by its hind feet, opened his wide
mouth and dropped the frog's fore-feet on his tongue.
The frog struggled to get free, and at the critical
moment the hind legs were let go, and down went the
frog, head foremost, into his gullet. He was our hero
for the time ; none other dared to attempt the same
feat. He said that he felt the frog all the way as it
went down to his stomach, and in it.

     The school was hateful to me in many ways, and
lovable in none, so I was heartily glad to be taken
away from it in 1832. I thence returned to my family
party, who were newly settled in Leamington. It

then consisted of my father, mother, and three sisters ;

my brothers were away, and my other sister, Lucy,
who had married, was living near Birmingham.
My grandfather Galton had recently died, and the
consequent large accession to my father's income
justified his change of residence, whch gave him and
my sisters a wider social intercourse than they had at
the Larches. Leamington was at that time a little
place, attractive to many eminent invalids, who
drank the waters and consulted Dr. Jephson, then

becoming celebrated.
     I was next sent to a small private school at

Kenilworth, consisting of some half-dozen pupils,
where I received much kindness, and breathed the

air of unconstraint during three happy years. It was

kept by Mr. Attwood, the clergyman of the parish
(a near relative of the inventor of "Attwood's
           CHILDHOOD AND BOYHOOD               19

machine," by which the rate of falling bodies is
measured), who, without any pretence of learning,

showed so much sympathy with boyish tastes and

aspirations that I began to develop freely. Two

of my fellow-pupils, Matthew P. Watt and Hugh

William Boulton, were brothers. They were grand

sons of    my    grandfather's   friend of the original
" Boulton   and  Watt " firm,   and sons of my father's

friend, who carried on the manufactory. Hugh

William became an exceptionally handsome and

socially favoured Life-Guardsman ; he died young.

Matthew was then, subsequently at Cambridge, and

again for some years afterwards, an object of reverence
to me. I have known few or any who seemed to me

his natural superiors in breadth and penetration of

intellect, but he was cursed with a fortune far in

excess of his simple though cultured needs, which

exacted duties from him that he hated. His large

fortune also removed the stimulus which necessity

gives for getting through work and having done with
   instead of lingering indefinitely. He consequently
it,
                                            I
grew amateurish, wasting thought on ingenious para

doxes and literary trifles, and failed to check a natural

tendency towards recluseness and some other oddities

of disposition. He gained the University prizes for

Greek and Latin Epigrams at Cambridge in 1841,
but did not care to compete for other honours. His

artistic sense was of a high and classical order. His

ideal, like that of Goethe, was a uniform culture of

all the higher faculties. There was nothing ignoble
in his nature. Whenever talked with him about

my own occasional annoyances, they seemed to

become petty through his broad way of looking at
20 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

things, I may almost say under the mere influence

of his presence. His photograph, which is near me
as I write, testifies to a personality that accords

with the grandeur of his character. I owe much to
his influence, and still remain conscious of the void

in my friendships caused by his death very many

years ago.

    When I was fourteen years old it became time for

me to go to a bigger school. My father had a

Quaker's repugnance to public schools of the usual
type, and it was finally decided that I should be sent

to King   Edward's  School in    Birmingham, then
          known as  the " Free  School," to which a
commonly

headmaster of high attainments had been recently
appointed. This was Dr. Jeune (1806-1868), after
wards Master of Pembroke College, Oxford, and
Bishop of Peterborough. I lived as a pupil, together

with a few others, at his house by the Five Ways,

to which a considerable garden was attached, and

whence we walked daily, through a mile or so of

street, to and from the school. I retained Dr. Jeune's
friendship until his death, and it was impossible not

to recognise his exceptional ability and educational

zeal, but the character of the education was altogether
uncongenial to my temperament. I learnt nothing,

and chafed at my limitations. I had craved for what

was denied, namely, an abundance of good English

reading, well-taught mathematics, and solid science.
Grammar and the dry rudiments of Latin and Greek

were abhorrent to me, for there seemed so little sense

in them. I was a fool to have been recalcitrant, and

not to have profited by what I could have had, because

many of my schoolfellows prospered on the teaching.
CHILDHOOD AND BOYHOOD  21

Three of them, F. Rendal, H. Holden, and C. Evans,

were the very first in classics of their respective years
at Cambridge. The two first were bracketed as
equally deserving the position of Senior Classic, and
the third gained that honour unpaired. Still, the
literary provender provided at Dr. Jeune's school
disagreed wholly with my mental digestion. The

time spent there was a period of stagnation to myself,
which for many years I bitterly deplored, for I was

very willing and eager to learn, and could have learnt

much if a suitable teacher had been at hand to direct

and encourage me.
                  CHAPTER III

                          MEDICAL STUDIES

First experience -- Tour with Mr. Bowman -- Birmingham Hospital
      -- Accidents -- Sense of pain -- King's College -- Professor R.
      Partridge and others -- Escape from drowning

IT was strongly desired by both my parents, but
        especially by my mother, that my future profession
should be medicine, like that of her famous father, Dr.

Erasmus Darwin, F.R.S., and of her half-brother,
Dr. Robert Darwin, F.R.S. As I had aptitudes for
that kind of study, my father fell in with her views,

and took great pains to give me the best educational

advantages. He acted largely on the advice of Mr.

Hodgson, who brought me as an infant into the world,
and was a true and helpful friend to me all through
his life.

      Mr. Hodgson ( 1 788-1 869) had settled in Birming
ham a few years before my birth, bringing with him a
high medical reputation, especially for his treatise on
arteries and veins, and he soon obtained an eminent
status as a Warwickshire surgeon. He became
 President of the Medico-Chirurgical Society in 1851,
 and, subsequently retiring from general practice,
 left Birmingham and settled in London, where he held
 the office of President of the College of Surgeons in
 1864. He and his wife died on the same day in 1869.
MEDICAL STUDIES                                          23

   . While I was still a young boy, my father contrived
that I should see something of a laboratory attached

to the shop of the principal chemist in Birmingham ;

again, during one of our summer visits to the seaside,

he discovered a needy foreign chemist who agreed to

take me in hand, at a rather high charge. All I

clearly recollect of him now was, that he seemed

obsessed with the idea of making some wonderful

compound out of succinic acid, which is derived from

amber, and that he spent all his spare shillings in
buying bits of amber and burning them. I learnt

nothing from his tuition ; on the other hand, certain
recollections of the chemist's laboratory still form part

of my stock of mental imagery.
     The step most momentous to myself was taken by

my father in 1 838, of removing me at the age of sixteen,

and in no ways against my will, from Dr. Jeune's school.

    A little after, while I was at Leamington, my

father asked our medical attendant there, Mr. P., to

show me an example of the medical work I should be

engaged in before I was plunged wholly into              It it.
That first experience very memorable to me.
                     It is
occurred on a night chilly out of doors, while indoors
                                    a
                                          a
our family party were assembled in cosy comfort at

dessert, after a good dinner, with brightly burning

fire, shining mahogany table, wine, fruits, and all the

rest, when a servant brought               note from Mr. P.

awaiting an answer.  was to the effect that
                                                         's
housemaid had suddenly died at Lord                                   a
                                                         house,

and that he, Mr. P., was about to make a post-mortem

examination would like to come Oh, the mixture
;

           I

                                                      ?

of revulsion, wonder, interest, and excitement           !

                                                            aI
changed clothes and went, entering the house by
24 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

back door as directed, and treading softly up the back

staircase to the cold garret where the poor girl lay.
She was the first dead person I had seen, handsome

in feature, but greatly swollen. She had been

apparently in perfect health a few hours before, then

she was suddenly seized with intense pain in the

stomach, followed rapidly by peritonitis and death.

I can easily reproduce in imagination all the ghastly

horror of the scene and could describe it in detail, but

it would be unfitted for these pages. The perforated

portion of the stomach was such a small hole. Death
" with a little pin, bores through the castle wall, and
II.-- farewell,"
King      ( King Richard  ).             Mr. P. pricked
      !
                                          A dissection
his finger while sewing up the abdomen.

wound when death has followed peritonitis is pro

verbially dangerous. It was so in this case, for

Mr. P. nearly died of it. I returned home chilled,

awed and sobered, and seemed for the time to have

left boyhood behind me.

My father, ever thoughtful of securing for me the

best education he could, had arranged through Mr.

Hodgson that one of his most promising former

pupils, who was going for a tour of a few weeks

abroad, partly for vacation, partly to see certain

medical institutions, should take me with him. He

was William Bowman, in later years the great oculist,

Sir William (1816-1892), who combined a most

refined and artistic temperament with exceptional

scientific ability. He obtained a European reputation

for medical research long before he was thirty years

of age. Thenceforward for many years he devoted

himself almost entirely to professional work, and

though keeping abreast of the information of the day,
            MEDICAL STUDIES                       25

contributed little or nothing more of his own, in the
way of research, to the great regret of many. He

was in later years a much valued member of many

scientific societies and an habitual frequenter of the

Royal Institution, near which he lived. The cause
of his death, as I heard of was pathetic. He had
            I
built and resided at a charming house in Surrey, nearII

Holmbury St. Mary, but retained his house init,

Clifford Street for some years, where he occasionally !

made appointments with old patients. At last theI
                                                    it
time came for wholly abandoning it. He lingered
                                                     I
about the cold house, visiting every part of for the
                                                                            aa
last time, for he had an affectionate nature, caught a

severe chill in doing so, and died of pneumonia.
To go back to the year 1838.
                              greatly enjoyed

the tour and the companionship of Bowman, from

whom        doubtless imbibed and assimilated more
a
        Ithancan now distinguish. The only event of

         Imedical character that saw with him was a small

operation, the first ever witnessed. A comic ex

perience next occurred.  accompanied Bowman to

lunatic asylum in Vienna. In those days was

particularly shy and sensitive, and a consciousness

of even the least unconventionality made me blush

to an absurd degree. In one of the female wards,

young, buxom, and uncommonly good-looking female

lunatic dashed forward with a joyful scream, she

clasped me tightly to her bosom with both her arms,

calling me her long-lost Fritz Tableau -- Amuse

ment of the others, myself pink to the ears.

I     may as well here continue to talk about

Bowman.     He was a most accurate and gifted

draughtsman of pathological subjects. One of his
26 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

earliest discoveries related to the liver, and I was

familiar with a drawing in colours that he had made
in illustration, which was preserved with great respect

at the Birmingham Hospital. In later years he told
me that having no further use for his collection of
drawings, he gave them to Dr. B. In time Dr. B.

died, and Bowman then became desirous to get back
his old drawings as mementoes of early work, but
could hear nothing of them. By an extraordinary
chance he was looking one day at prints in a second
hand and second-rate book-shop, when his eye caught
sight of a corner of these very drawings. They were

all there, and he bought them all back. He could

not learn their intermediate history.

     It was in the autumn of 1838 that I took up my

abode, as indoor pupil, in the Birmingham General

Hospital, then situated near Snow Hill. My im
mediate chief was the house surgeon, Mr. Baker,

who ultimately gained considerable repute as a

surgeon in Birmingham, but is now dead. My one

fellow indoor pupil had a similarly successful career
to that of Mr. Baker. There were also in the

common dining-room two officials, the matron and
the treasurer. Matters were very different then ;
I, a mere boy of sixteen, but with unquestionably
an eager mind, was thrust without any previous ex
perience into a post that I found in a few months'

time to be one of much responsibility. At first I

was set to work every morning to help in the

dispensary. It was a room with a dresser and a
service door at the side. I there learnt the difference

between infusions, decoctions, tinctures, and ex

tracts, and how to make them. Possibly the reader
          MEDICAL STUDIES                                           27

may not know the meanings of these words, so I
venture to give them. Tea is an " infusion," made

by pouring boiling water on the tea and allowing it

to stand. Coffee           or would be a "decoction"
          it is                                                     if

made by boiling the mixture. Infusions and decocis,

tions are cheap forms of medicine, suitable for

hospitals where they are made daily, but they soon

spoil when kept. "Tinctures" are made by pouring

spirits of wine instead of water on the drugs they
                                                                I;
keep indefinitely, but are    m"oErxetrcaocsttsly",  and  therefore
rarely used in hospitals.                            are  made by

boiling down decoctions.
All this
          easily done when the proper simple

apparatus and means of heating are at hand.                         I

once made an extract as an experiment that re

commend to the notice of students who may wish to

taste the ne plus ultra of bitterness.                    was from
                                                     It
quassia,  that curious tree  of South  America, of which
the very  chips are bitter.  The once  well-known " bitter  is
cup " made of quassia wood. When water poured
It !
into the cup, quickly becomes bitter. Quassia                       is
   is                                                                  it a
valuable tonic medicine, with perhaps the one faulta

of cheapness. An apothecary can hardly be expected

to feel easy in conscience when he charges apothe

cary's prices for what every little chip of a timber tree

affords when put into hot water. Anyhow, made a
                                                     it
large jugful of decoction of quassia and boiled        is, I

down until a sticky residue was left, which or might

be, called "quassine."     I  put a piece of about the

size of pin's head upon my tongue, and then -- oh

then Try  it,     you doubt its absolute bitterness.

            if

was amusing at first to make pills. The pill

mass had to be brayed together in a mortar, occasion
28 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

ally adding water or I forget what other liquid, to
render it of the proper consistency. Next a certain
weight of the pill mass was rolled out by the help of
a simple but ingeniously arranged slab, into a long
worm of equal diameter and of standard length. Then

the worm was cut simultaneously into equal segments,
by the pressure of the grooved back of the same
slab, by means of which the segments were also rolled

into pills.
     The other day I visited the great store and

manufactory of chemical and other apparatus of
Messrs. Griffiths, in or near Aldwych Street, and
saw there a machine, occupying little more room than
a moderately sized washing-stand, that claimed to
turn out pills at the rate of one million in each

twenty-four hours, --so if forty-five of these machines

were kept continually at work day and night, it would
enable a grandmotherly Socialist Government to
supply to every man, woman, and child of the forty-
five millions of inhabitants of the British Isles one

free pill daily.

     The out-patients clustered in the hall outside the
service window of the dispensary, and were supplied
in turn. Then the prescriptions of the in-patients
were handed in and attended to. It was a busy time.
I learnt to do most of my part pretty well in a very few
weeks, after which I was promoted to higher things.

     Having always the run of the dispensary, and
being a boy, I found certain drugs, such as liquorice,

much to my taste, but especially poppy seed. A

large number of poppy capsules were kept in stock
for making soothing lotions. They are full of seeds,
which contain no opium at all. These are not used for
MEDICAL STUDIES  29

the lotions, but are particularly pleasant to munch, and

I ate them in abundance when the humour seized me.

In later years I found poppy seeds in common use

somewhere in Germany, for making a particular
pudding ; I think it was in Bonn.

     The duties gradually imposed on me were to go

with the surgeons on their morning rounds, always
to attend in the accident room, where persons suffer

ing from accidents were received whether in the night
or day, and to help in dressing them, also to be
present at all operations, and to take part at every
post-mortem examination, of which there were per

haps two or three weekly. The times of which I
am speaking were long before those of chloroform,
and many long years before that of Pasteur and Sir
Joseph Lister. The stethoscope was considered

generally to be new-fangled ; the older and naturally

somewhat deaf practitioners pooh-poohed and never

used it.

      I cannot understand to this day why youths selected
for their powers of sharp hearing should not be so far
instructed as to be used by physicians, much as

pointers and setters are used by sportsmen. They

could be taught what to listen for, probably by means
of some sound-emitting instruments more or less

muffled, and how to describe what they heard. A

patient during the incipient stage of his disease might
be submitted to examination by one or more of these

quick-hearing youths, who would report to the doctor,
who thereupon would form and express his opinion.
Similarly as regards touch, of which great delicacy is
of the highest importance. Conceive what help might

be given by them in discovering deeply seated tumours,
30 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

abscesses, and much else. The touch of a person far
less sensitive than that of the wandering Princess of the

well-known fairy tale might prove of vital importance.

It will be recollected that her Princess-ship was ac

 knowledged by all, through her discovering a pea
 surreptitiously inserted as a test, below the bottom of
 the pile of feather-beds on which she slept.

     To return to my duties. Accidents occurred, of
course, at all hours of the day and night. It was

unpleasant to be summoned out of a warm bed to
attend upon these once on a cold night, but it was
 not a hardship ; to be summoned twice was trying ;
 but thrice, as sometimes happened, was more than
 I could have endured had it frequently occurred.
 Burns were the commonest of the accidents at night
time. The sufferers were piteous to see. As a rule
 they did not complain much of pain, but they shivered
 from a sense of cold and were enfeebled almost to

prostration by the shock. There was nothing to be
 done to them beyond cutting away all adherent
 clothing and the like, packing them in cotton wool
 and sending them to a ward. One particular ward
 was allotted to that purpose. The contrast was great
 between the neatly dressed patient of the first night
 and the wretched creature two days after, when
 suppuration had begun and the foul dressings had
 to be carefully picked off and replaced by clean ones.

       Broken heads from brawls were common accidents

 at night ; then it was my part to shave the head, using
 the blood as lather, which makes a far better prepara

 tion for shaving than soap. The wounds were stitched
 together with a three-cornered "glove needle," which

 cuts its way through the skin. Some riots connected
          MEDICAL STUDIES                         31

with the "Charter" occurred at this time, and many
people were hurt. It was curious to observe the

apparent cleanness of the cuts that were made

through the scalp by the blow of a policeman's

round truncheon.

It sometimes happened that a severe case was

brought at night-time, which required higher surgical

skill than could properly be expected in the house

surgeon, who, though professionally qualified, was

young, and therefore relatively unpractised. If the

treatment of any such accident admitted of no delay,

a messenger was dispatched to the house of the

surgeon himself, to wake and bring him. One of

these events made a great impression on me. It

was that of a man, a small piece of whose skull had

been depressed by something falling on his head and

stunning  "hismte. rtorHoeusw"asorbsronuogrihntg  in utterly unconscious,
with the                                           respiration character

istic of such cases. The man had to be trepanned, so

the surgeon was sent for. In the meantime everything
was prepared for his arrival. The trepan is a hollow

steel cylinder with teeth cut out of its lower rim, used

to saw a circular wad out of the sound bone nearest to

the fracture. A miniature steel crowbar is used to

raise the depressed fragment, and a rod to lay across
the sound bone as a fulcrum for the crowbar. I seem

to see it all before me as I write. The brightly lighted
room, the apparatus in order, the surgeon at work, the

eager faces of the bystanders, and the utterly uncon
scious patient. The wad was cut out, the crowbar

adjusted, and still the monotonous snore continued

unchanged. Then pressure was put on the free end
of the crowbar, the broken bit of skull was raised,
32 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

and instantly life rushed back. The man continued

a sentence that he must have begun before the
                                       and said, " Where
accident  ;  then   he stared wildly,  stopped through a
am I ? "           clock of life had
             The

temporary obstruction, the obstruction was removed

and the clock ticked on as before. He was soothed,

a silver plate was inserted over the hole, the scalp

was replaced and stitched together, and he was sent

into the ward. In due time he wholly recovered, the

scalp having grown over the plate.

I had the option of accompanying any of the

surgeons or physicians on his morning round. Each

had his clinical clerk, who made notes of the case and

wrote the treatment prescribed from time to time,

upon a paper affixed to a board at the bed-head. I

appreciated from the very first the high importance

of careful study and record of every case. My feeling

is now fully developed which was then in embryo,

that it is our duty to avail ourselves of the oppor

tunities that arise from the apparently unmoral course

of Nature, of rendering similar events less dangerous

and painful in the future. Blind Nature seems to

vivisect ruthlessly, let us as reasonable creatures

elicit all the good we can from her vivisections, for

which we ourselves are in no way responsible. I

became a clinical clerk in time, but felt acutely my

incompetence to act up to my own high ideals.

    It was a surprise to me to notice so few signs of

pain and distress in the wards, even among the

mortally stricken. I met with no instances of terror

at approaching death, while the ordinary interests of
life seemed powerful up to the close of consciousness.

But it must be terrible to a sensitive and stricken
MEDICAL STUDIES  33

fellow-patient with all his senses still on the alert,
when the death-hour of some one else in the ward

arrives, and the curtains are drawn around the dying
man's bed to hide the scene, and again when his

remains are removed to the post-mortem room. All

these things are, however, more hideous to the imagi
nation than in reality. One piteous death-bed scene

much impressed me. A girl was fast dying of typhus,

and I had been instructed to apply a mustard plaister.
When I came to her, she was fully sensible, and said
in a faint but nicely mannered way, " Please leave me
in peace. I know I am dying, and am not suffering."
I had not the heart to distress her further.

     The opinions held by the students about the

several physicians and surgeons were curiously
guided by a mixture of loyalty and irreverence.
There was no doubt of the fact that M., one of the

doctors, who never professed or had a claim to
scientific acquirements, got his patients out of hospital

more quickly than any of his colleagues. His treat
ment was as simple as that of Dr. Sangrado, though
of quite another kind. It consisted of a strong

purgative followed by low diet, and a subsequent

feeding up as soon as all fever had gone. The
composition of his drench never varied ; a big bottle
of it was made every morning in the dispensary, in
readiness to be served out. It was so cheap that the

overplus could be thrown away and a fresh infusion

made the next day.

     It is to be wished that some "index of curative
skill" could be awarded to doctors, based on their

respective hospital successes. I have often amused

myself with imaginary schemes to this effect. If it

                 3
34 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

could be compiled truthfully, it would be an excellent
guide to those who wanted a doctor but were doubt

ful whom to consult. A high index of curative skill

would serve as a measure of merit, and the fee to the

doctor might be regulated by its height.
      I threw myself into my duties with zeal, and loved

neat bandaging and neat plaistering. Each clinical
clerk had a dressing board, supported against his
body by a strong band passed over his neck : its ends
were fixed to the board. Lint, plaister, scissors,
forceps, probe, and a few other simple surgical
instruments completed the outfit. There was much
bleeding from the arm, especially of out-patients ;
there were also cuppings and insertion of issues and

of setons. All these I could soon do creditably ; I

was fairly good even at tooth-drawing. I set broken
limbs, at first under strict supervision, but was latterly

allowed much freedom. I had also occasionally to

reduce dislocations of the arm, and once at least of
the thigh. The mechanism of the body began to

appear very simple in its elementary features. At

one time no less than sixteen fractures, dislocations,

or other injuries to the arms, or parts of them, were
practically under my sole care all at the same time.

Of course my proceedings were carefully watched.
     The following incident in those pre-chloroform

days set me thinking. A powerful drayman was

brought in dead drunk, with both of his thighs crushed
and mangled by a heavy waggon. They had to be
amputated at once. He remained totally unconscious
all the time, and it was not until he awoke sober in

the morning that he discovered that his legs were

gone. He recovered completely. The question that
MEDICAL STUDIES  35

then presented itself to me was, " Why could not

people be made dead drunk before operations ? Could

it not be effected without upsetting their digestion and

doing harm in other ways ? " The subsequent dis
covery of inhaling, instead of drinking the intoxicating

spirit, whether it be chloroform or ether, solved that

question most happily.

     The cries of the poor fellows who were operated
on were characteristic ; in fact, each class of operation
seemed to evoke some peculiar form of them. All
this was terrible, but only at first. It seemed after a

while as though the cries were somehow disconnected

with the operation, upon which the whole attention

became fixed.

     It was obvious that different persons felt pain
with very different degrees of acuteness. I may here

go quite out of chronological sequence, and refer to
an experience in 1851, when I was on the point of
starting from a mission station on my exploration of
Damara Land, then wholly unknown but now a

German possession. It will be again alluded to in a
later chapter. A branch missionary outpost, twenty

miles off, had lately been raided, and most of the

people, other than the missionaries themselves,

murdered. Of those who escaped, two women, each

with both of their feet hacked off, made their way
to the station, at which I saw them. The Damara

women wear heavy copper rings on their ankles, put
on when they are growing girls that the rings may
not slip over their feet when they are adult. These

coveted treasures can therefore be obtained only by

the summary process of cutting off the feet. In this

horribly mutilated state the two women crawled the
36 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

whole of the twenty miles. The stumps had healed
when I saw them. I asked how they staunched the

blood. They explained by gesture that it was by
stumping the bleeding ends into the sand, and they
grinned with satisfaction while they explained.

     I may yet travel onwards many more years to
another illustrative anecdote. I happened to be

President of the Anthropological Institute, when a
very interesting memoir was read on the subject now
in question. Numerous instances were given of a

very startling character, but the one that seemed the

most so was a story told there by the late Sir James

Paget, as communicated to him by a trustworthy
friend ; he added that he felt compelled to believe it.

It referred to a native New Zealander. It appeared
that at the time in question it was the height of
fashion for the Maoris to wear boots on great occa
sions, and not to appear barefooted. A youth had

saved money and went to a store a long way off,
where he purchased a pair of these precious articles.
On returning home he tried to put them on, but one
of his feet had a long projecting toe which prevented

it from being thrust home. He went quite as a
matter of course to fetch a bill-hook which was at
hand, and, putting his foot on a log of wood, chopped

off the end of his long toe and drew on the boot.
     There was another occurrence in those pre-

Pasteur days on which my mind dwelt often. It was

a story corroborated by many analogous but much
less striking instances that came under my own ob
servation, of a man who had stumbled into a cauldron

of scalding pitch. He was quickly pulled out, but
the pitch had so enclosed and adhered to one of his
                   MEDICAL STUDIES                                                                           37

legs that nothing could be done with safety to remove

it. The other leg was cleaned as well as might be

and carefully dressed, and in that state, with one

leg cased in pitch, the other bandaged, he was

sent to bed. After many days, the leg that was

enclosed in pitch ceased to hurt, and the covering

became so loose that it was desirable and easy to

Itremovewhen                      and behold! instead of a vast

                it,
                              lo
suppurating surface, the leg was found to be entirely

healed. The other leg, which had been less hurt and

carefully dressed, remained much longer unhealed.

seemed clear that the art of dressing was far

behind what was possible,                and that an                                                         thaeppwliocuantidon"
of the dressing before " the             air got into

was the thing to be aimed at. The subsequent

discovery by Pasteur of the germ theory, and the
practical application of by Sir Joseph, now Lord
                                     it

Lister, has overcome the difficulty.

I  was so keen at my medical work, that, being

desirous of appreciating the effects of different
medicines, began by taking small doses of all that
        I
               It
were included in the pharmacopoeia, commencing with

the letter A.      was an interesting experience, but

had obvious drawbacks. However, got nearly to
                                                                                                          I

the end of the letter when was stopped by theI C,
                                                                                                       I

effects of Croton oil.                  had foolishly believed that

two drops of could have no notable effects as a
               it

purgative and emetic but indeed they had, and                                                                I
                                  ;

can recall them now.

There were histories of occasional outbursts of

hysteria in the female wards one took place whilst
I
                                                                                                    ;
Itwas there.       was a most curious and afflicting

spectacle of pure panic. One woman had begun to
38 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

scream and rave, then another followed suit, then

another, and pandemonium seemed at hand. It was

stopped by rather rough measures, gentle ones
making matters worse. There was a current story
of one of the surgeons having effectually stopped a
most threatening outbreak, which the nurses began
to join, in which an abundance of cold water was

only part of the remedy employed.
      Many protean forms of that strange disorder,

hysteria, were frequently pointed out to me. The
demoralisation that accompanied it was shown by
the gross and palpable lies told by the patients in

their desire at any cost to attract attention. A

paroxysm of it may resemble a severe epileptic fit.
 I was informed in all seriousness by a friend, of a
valuable way of distinguishing them, important for
 nurses to bear in mind, that in epilepsy the patient
 might and often did bite himself, his tongue for
 example, but in hysteria the patients never bit them
 selves but always other people.

      Delirium tremens was a strange malady. The

 struggles were sometimes terrible, yet the pulse was

 feeble and the reserve of strength almost nil. The

 visions of the patients seemed indistinguishable by

 them from realities ; in the few cases I saw, they

 were wholly of fish or of creeping things. One of
 the men implored me to take away the creature that

 was crawling over his counterpane, following its
 imagined movements with his finger and staring as
 at a ghost. Poor humanity! I often feel that the
 tableland of sanity upon which most of us dwell,

  is small in area, with unfenced precipices on every
 side, over any one of which we may fall.
MEDICAL STUDIES  39

     The hysterical scream which so strongly affects
other women is a forcible instance of the power of

sound, whose limits are, as yet, imperfectly explored.

The tones of a great actor or orator may thrill the
whole being. An unemotional elderly gentleman

told me years ago, that he was haunted by the re
collection of the resonance of Pitt's voice when

speaking of some event (I forget what it was) that
gave him a "pang." There are many kinds of
shrieks of a blood-curdling nature, of which that of a

wounded horse on a battlefield is said to be one.

     Kings College. -- After a brief vacation I was sent,

again through Mr. Hodgson's ever active interest, for
a year to King's College and to live as an inmate of
the house of Professor Richard Partridge (1 805-1 873),
together with four or five other pupils. His house
was in New Street, Spring Gardens, now demolished
through the extension of the Admiralty Buildings and

the newly constructed entrance from Charing Cross
into St. James's Park. My social surroundings were
of a far higher order than those at Birmingham, and
I rejoiced in them. Professor Partridge was, at that

time, a brilliant man of about thirty-four years of age,
yellow-haired, full of humour and of quips, as well as
of shrewdness and kindliness ; his intimate friends
were all growing into distinction. He had known
Charles Lamb well, and the genius of Elia seemed to
haunt the house, though Charles Lamb had died four
or five years before. I listened with admiration to

the brilliant talk and repartees when Partridge had his

bachelor dinners with fellow-cronies as guests. They
included G. Dasent, later Sir George, the author and
40 MEMORIES OP MY LIFE

Civil Service Commissioner ; Professor Wheatstone,
later Sir Charles, who conjointly with Cooke was the
introducer of the electric telegraph ; A. Smee the

electrician, subsequently an authority on gardening,
and others.

callePdro"feDssicokreyR,"icwhaasrdbroPtahretrridtogeJ,ohnF.RPa.Srt.r,idgfea,miRlia.Arly.,
and Professor of Anatomy. It was commonly said that

the brothers had each followed the occupation best
fitted to the other. Certainly Richard Partridge was
an admirable draughtsman, but was not, so far as I
was then capable of judging, a man who really loved

and revelled in science. He delighted in minute
points of human anatomy and did not generalise,

 consequently the information given in his lectures
seemed to me as dry as the geography of Pinnock's

Catechism. For all that, they were enlivened by his
never-failing humour. His instruction seemed to me

deficient in the why and the wherefore. A human

 hand was just a human hand to him ; its analogies

 with paws, hoofs, wings, claws, and fins were never
 alluded to.

      I spent a happy time under his roof. We pupils
 had the drawing-room to read and write in, with a

 wardrobe and a hanging closet tenanted by a jointed
 skeleton which we could study at will. The days
 were spent in the Medical Department of King's
 College, which was quite disconnected with the

 classical side. All the pupils entered at the same
 door, but there we separated. The medicals turned

 sharply to the right, and many of them went down
 stairs to the dissection room, where much of my own

 time was spent.
          MEDICAL STUDIES                                                            41

The immediate chiefs of the dissection room were

nominally my old travelling companion and tutor,

William Bowman and John Simon, but Bowman had
other College work to perform, and was rarely present.

Mr. Simon, afterwards Sir John Simon                                        18 16), of
                                                  a
the Board of Health, was practically the only Director.
His quaint phrases, full of scientific insight and        I

poetical in essence, were most attractive. His                         (b.

collected essays and reports are models of literary
style applied to scientific subjects. He died three

or four years ago, quite blind, at a very advanced age.

    All the Professors whose lectures had to attend,

were notable men. Dr. Todd (1809- 1860), the
Professor of Physiology, gave powerful impulse to

his branch of science. He was then engaged                                           in

collaboration with Bowman in bringing out their

Encyclopedia of Physiology, which was a remarkable

work for those days. The signs of advance were all
about and in the air. The microscope had rather

suddenly attained position of much enhanced im
          ;

            it
                           a
portance  was now mounted solidly, with really

good working stages and with good glasses. Powell

was the principal maker of and a Powell's microscope
                                                  it,
                                                                         (1

                                                                                 is
was an object almost of worship to advanced students.
The manufacture of microscopes has rapidly and

steadily advanced since those times, both in cheapness

and in goodness what was then a rarity now in
I

                         ;
                                               :
the possession of every student.

        enjoyed the lectures of Daniell 790-1 845) on
Chemistry he was so simple and thorough. In those

times the galvanic cell was becoming perfected, and

the three forms then invented, the Smee, the Daniell,

and the Grove (the latter being by my valued friend
42 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

in later years, Justice Sir William Grove), still retain
their names. Electrotyping was invented by Smee,

and I recall well the humorously pathetic manner in

which Daniell explained to his class how the neglect

of drawing an obvious inference had prevented him
from figuring as its discoverer. He had noticed the

marvellous fidelity with which the marks of a file had

appeared on a copper sheath electrically thrown down

upon as'vthe result of some chance experiment, but
It
he had failed to infer that medals and the like might
    is it,be copied by the same process.

            needless to go into particulars of my course

at King's College. They had much the same result

on me in opening the mind that a similar experience

must have on every keen medical student, but do
                                                      II
not remember any special characteristic worthy of

record.     I   did pretty well at my studies. My chief

competitor was George Johnson, afterwards Sir

George      1  1  8-1 896), whose thoroughness of work and
character         admired. He beat me in physiology, in
             8
         (

            I

which came out second.        think the only prize ever
I                   I in
                           I
got all to myself was the minor subject of Forensic

Medicine, in which delighted.  It  had a sort of

Sherlock Holmes fascination for me, while the

instances given as cautions, showing where the value
of too confident medical assertions had been rudely

upset by the shrewd cross-questioning of lawyers, con

firmed what was beginning vaguely to perceive, that
                I

doctors had the fault, equally with parsons, of being

much too positive.

My friend Sir G. Johnson subsequently became
the leader of      one of    theHitswowaospptohseed"   methods     of
dealing with       cholera.                           eliminative
                                                                    "
MEDICAL STUDIES  43

view, namely, that there was mischief in the system
that Nature strove to eliminate, so he prescribed
castor oil to expedite matters ; others took the

exactly opposite view, consequently there was open
war between the two methods. I read somewhere

that one of Johnson's most fiery opponents considered
the number of deaths occasioned by his method to

amount to eleven thousand. Leaving aside all
question of the accuracy of the estimate of this

particular treatment, it is easy to see that when a

pestilence lies heavily on a nation, the numbers

affected are so large that a proper or improper
treatment may be capable of saving or of destroying
many thousands of lives. By all means, then, let

competitive methods be tested at hospitals on a

sufficiently large scale to settle their relative merits.

Of this I will speak further almost immediately.

     One part of my duties was to attend King's
College Hospital, but the position of a student there
was far less instructive than that of an indoor pupil

at the Birmingham Hospital, where responsibility
was great and there was no crowding. The teaching
was, however, greatly superior to the generality of
that at Birmingham. The position of house pupil
and resident medical officer has long since become

highly and justly prized, and is now obtainable only

after competition and by the best men.
      Medical knowledge has advanced so far that

more scientific treatment can be had in many small

country towns than was formerly procurable even in
London. Still, the experience haunts my memory
of Dr. M. at the Birmingham Hospital, of his
habitual drench of which I wrote, and of his remark
44 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

able success in turning out his patients nominally
cured. There is still much lack of exact knowledge

of what Nature can do without assistance from

medicine, if aided only by cheering influences, rest,

suggestion, and good nursing.

     I wish that hospitals could be turned into places

for experiment more than they are, in the following

perfectly humane direction. Suppose two different
and competing treatments of a particular malady ; I
have just mentioned a case in point. Let the patients

suffering under it be given the option of being placed
under Dr. A. or Dr. B., the respective representatives

of the two methods, and the results be statistically
           A co-operation without partisanship
compared.

between many large hospitals ought to speedily

settle doubts that now hang unnecessarily long under

dispute.

Medical statistics are, however, the least suitable

of any I know for refined comparisons, because the

conditions that cannot be, or at all events are not

taken into account, are local, very influential, and

apt to differ greatly. It  is,however, humiliating

                                    I
to find how much has failed to attract attention for

want of even the rudest statistics.    doubt whether

the unaided apprehension of man suffices to dis

tinguish between the frequency of what occurs on

an average four times in ten events and one that
occurs five times. Much grosser proportions have

been wholly overlooked by doctors.     I  referred

once to many dictionaries and works of medicine

published before the time of Broca, some ninety years

ago, and did not find a single reference to the almost
invariable loss of speech associated with paralysis of
MEDICAL STUDIES    45

the right side. Still more recently, the idea of con

sumption being communicated by any form of infection
was stoutly denied by English medical men. As to

rules of diet, the changes are ludicrous. Robert
Frere, one of my fellow-pupils when with Professor

Partridge, became through marriage in later years

a managing partner in a very old and eminent firm

of wine merchants. They had supplied George iv.
with his brandy and the like. He told me that the

books of the firm showed that every class of wine

had in its turn been favoured by the doctors.
     There were many incidents that I could tell about

this time of my life that might be interesting in some

sense, but which are foreign to the main purpose

of such an autobiography as mine, which is to in

dicate how the growth of a mind has been affected
                   I will, however, make one ex
by circumstances.

ception, which refers to a very narrow escape from

drowning. I had been in a steamboat, crammed
with people, to see the Oxford and Cambridge boat-

race, and was returning with stream and tide. The

arches of Old Battersea Bridge were narrow, and it

required careful steering on such occasions to get

safely through them. The steamboat on which I
was yawed greatly. I was standing behind the right-
hand paddle-box, when it crashed against one of the

piers and split open just in front of me, giving a

momentary view of the still revolving paddles. The
shock sent me down among them. I was con
scious of two taps on the back of my head, and then
the water swirled over me. In a few seconds my
wits had gathered themselves together, and I found

myself submerged under a mass of wood, which
46 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

afterwards proved to be the outer sheathing of the

paddle-box. I dived to get clear of       I it,  but found

myself held back by projecting nails which had hooked

into my clothes. My breath was becoming exhausted,

so passed my hand quickly but steadily all over
II
myself, disentangling nails in two or three places,

and then made my last dive for life.             fortunately

rose clear, and utilised my former enemy the mass

of wood as a raft.  I   was sufficiently unhurt to help

another man who was also in the water and ina

distress, by pushing piece of wood to him.

  There was, of course, much commotion all about

the scene. The steamboat drifted helplessly boats
                                                     ;

                                                            I
put off from the shore the men in the first boat that
                        ;

reached me tried to drive a hard bargain, asking

a sovereign to take me in, but being in safety

was able to resist extortion.        then rowed to the
                           is I
ship, and my face was,     understood, a spectacle,
                                ii. a
being painted with blood that had flowed freely from
                                  II
a few scratches and was spread all over by the   it
wetting. There was much sympathy shown on the

steamboat, and an especial interest in me on the part

of the captain, who from the character of his questions

obviously feared having to pay damages. So at
                                                     a

                                                        I
last landed, and, feeling little the worse after short

rest, cabbed home to Mr. Partridge's house. The

only object that really suffered was my rather

valuable watch. There          short account of this

accident in the Life of Leonard Horner, F.R.S., by
his daughter K. M. Lyell, 19. did not hear
                                       I

that any notice of got into the newspapers.
                    it

    will finish now what little have to add about

my medical experiences, skipping over four or five
MEDICAL STUDIES  47

years in a few lines. While at Cambridge, of which

I shall speak in a separate chapter, I attended a few

lectures, chiefly by Dr. Haviland, in order to obtain
some more of the necessary certificates to qualify

me for undergoing an examination and obtaining

a doctor's degree. After I left Cambridge, some

more lectures had still to be attended, so I was sent

for a short time as a pupil at St. George's Hospital.
My dear father's death then occurred, as will be
mentioned farther on, and the direction of my life

became changed.
                         CHAPTER IV

                   SHORT TOUR TO THE EAST

Giessen -- Linz -- Rowboat to Vienna -- Steam down Danube and over
      land to Black Sea-- Constantinople -- Smyrna -- Quarantines at Syra
      and Trieste --Adelsberg -- Diligence from Milan to Boulogne --
       Home

IN the spring of 1840 a passion for travel seized
       me as if I had been a migratory bird. While
attending the lectures at King's College I could see
the sails of the lighters moving in sunshine on the

Thames, and it required all my efforts to disregard
the associations of travel which they aroused. On
fine mornings I could not keep still in the house in

Spring Gardens where I lived, but wandered in St.

James's Park. On these occasions I noticed that the
weathercock on the Horse Guards seemed to point
nearly always to the south-west. The explanation
proved to be that the fit seized me with violence

when a south-west wind was blowing. It was

arranged by my father that I should accompany Dr.
Allen Miller ( 1 8 1 7- 1 870), subsequently a great chemist
and for many years Treasurer of the Royal Society,
to Giessen, where the more promising young chemists
of those days gathered to avail themselves of the
teaching of Liebig, then the foremost of the chemical
Professors in Germany. My father gave me a liberal
letter of credit, for, having been a banker himself, he

                                                                                     48
SHORT TOUR TO THE EAST  49

was unwilling that my balance should ever run low ;
besides, he was always cautious in making ample
provision for unexpected contingencies. So to Giessen
I went, but soon finding that my chemical knowledge,
and indeed my knowledge of German, was by no

means sufficiently advanced for me to profit from
Liebig's teaching, I determined to throw that plan
over, to make a dash and go as far as my money
allowed, consistent with returning to England early in

October in time for my first term at Cambridge. I
had saturated myself since the age of nine with Byron's
poetry, which gave me a longing to see the East ;

besides, a new route Eastwards had been opened,
between Czernavoda and Kustendji, the former lying
on that long reach of the Lower Danube where it most
nearly approaches the Black Sea, and Kustendji

situated on the Black Sea itself. A calculation of the

cost showed that my finances would suffice for this

and more, so away I went. A steamer ran twice or
thrice a week from Linz to Vienna, and once (I think)

in a fortnight from Vienna down the Danube, and the
times fitted nicely. But on arrival at Linz it proved
that the steamer bound for Vienna was disabled and
would not run for some days. This serious contretemps
threatened to ruin my whole scheme, which required
that I should reach Vienna in time for a particular

steamer.

     I had made friends with an elderly British officer

at the hotel, who was in much the same plight as
myself, for it was as important to him as to me, though

for other reasons, to reach Vienna without delay. He

told me that he had found a boatman who would take

us all the way, some seventy miles down stream, for a

              4
                MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

moderate sum, and that he was willing to go if I

would join him. I accepted his proposal, he having

assured me that the boat would be adequately manned,

and that the journey would be both easy and interest

ing. His power of German conversation was even

less than mine, and either he had not understood

aright or he had been cheated, for when we had

entered the boat in the dark by help of the faint and

flickering light of a lantern, and had been pushed off
into the current of the swiftly flowing Danube, I

perceived that the boatmen consisted only of one old

man and a boy. It was impossible to return, so we

made the best of  One of us two, and was more
                  it.
frequently myself, for my companion wanted bothI
                                                         I ; it
youth and muscle, had to work an oar almost con               it

tinuously in order to give steerage-way to the boat.                 I

We toiled through the night and the following

morning, hardly resting at all till we reached Molk,

where provisions and fruit were bought and another

boatman engaged, and we went onwards after brief

delay. We arrived as near to Vienna as the police

regulations allowed, very late at night but by

unexpected good fortune the officials allowed us to

land and to sleep hard by, so was in good time for

the steamer, and after a short stay was off in her.

had some agreeable fellow-passengers, and was a

momentous voyage to me.

The first stoppage was at Pesth, where was quite

unprepared for the grandeur of its quays and buildings.

Thenceforward we entered comparative barbarism.

There   was a   considerable  delay   at the famous rapids
of the          Gates," long   since   removed by blasting
        " Iron

the rocks that gave them their name, and where the
SHORT TOUR TO THE EAST  51

river ran strongly. I witnessed boats of no large size
being towed up stream by the longest teams of men

and horses that I have ever seen. If my memory

does not play tricks, I counted no less than ninety-six
horses hauling a single boat. I drove as far as time

allowed among the Carpathians towards Mehadia, a
then secluded watering-place, in the company of two

Hungarians, with one of whom --a Kaunitz -- I had

struck up a travelling friendship, and who told me

much about Hungary.
     The position of Belgrade was imposing. It was

then in Turkish occupation, and the Turks still wore
turbans. The town being in quarantine, we were not
allowed to land. The flat shores of Wallachia were

most uninteresting and looked fever-haunted. The
only human life visible for miles together was that of

an occasional coast-guardsman perched in a crow's
nest on the top of a pole, to prevent smugglers from

crossing the Danube unseen. At one place we cut

through a shoal of water snakes crossing the river,

with their heads out of water and their bodies
wriggling horizontally. It was a sight upon which

a horrible nightmare might have been founded.

     At length we arrived at our journey's end, where

light waggons awaited us, which were drawn across
the open country. I walked the greater part of the
distance, and so reached the Black Sea at Kustendji.
The steamer started in threatening weather, and parti

cularly rough seas ensued. We rolled so badly and

so briskly that a square chest containing seamen's

things, which stood on the deck, was toppled over.
 In the morning, the historical Symplegades were in

sight, and certainly the superstitious Greeks might
52 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

well have accredited them, as they did, with the
power of shutting like jaws and crushing vessels that
attempted to pass between them, for the apparent
width of the intervening space changes rapidly with
changing perspective. Then we steamed through the
glorious Bosphorus, whose sides were far less built
upon than now, past Therapia to Constantinople, or
Stamboul, as it was commonly called.

     I revelled in the glory of the place and in the
picturesque and turbaned groups. The hotel kept by
Miseri was then a small establishment, more like a

pension. He had been courier to a connection of mine,
and I was taken in and made very comfortable. The
numerous acquaintances I picked up there and the
stories I heard of the current rascalities gave an

insight into a phase of humanity which I did not

esteem but was glad to know about.

     Though I am now inclined to twaddle about what

was then so new, so strange and exhilarating to me, it
would not interest readers who are probably familiar
with far more graphic accounts of this capital of the
East than I have skill to write. The sherbet, iced with

snow from the neighbouring Mount Olympus, shares,
I suppose, with similar sherbet at Granada, iced with
snow from the Sierrra Nevada, the honour of parent
age to our very modern ice-creams. In my youth
the only good ice-cream maker in London was
Gunter in Berkeley Square, and the very existence of
such a luxury as ice-cream had then, as I know, been
recently scoffed at by the educated daughters of a
clergyman in South Wales. After about six days'
stay in Constantinople, I had to move onwards, taking

a steamer to Smyrna. Olympus stood grandly above
SHORT TOUR TO THE EAST  S3

the shores of the Sea of Marmora ; then came the

Hellespont, then the Troad, then Smyrna.
     My allowance of time was drawing to a close, for

I had to make ample allowance for long detention in

quarantines, which were in those times an especial
nuisance. They were put on or taken off with

apparent caprice, sometimes it was said for purely
commercial reasons. So I was able to allow only two

or three days for seeing the environs of Smyrna, and
then started in a steamer to the island of Syra,
where I was placed for ten days in quarantine. My

rooms were like those of a khan, wholly unfurnished,

the guardian supplying bedding and food at moderate

cost. He followed me as a prisoner under his charge,

with a long stick wherewith to ward me from touching

or being touched by any body or thing that was not in

the same quarantine as myself. The quarantine
buildings enclosed a large square. My rooms opened

at the back into a cheerful covered balcony which

looked on the sea. My neighbouring occupant was
a lady, a near relative to Arthur Cayley, the great

mathematician, whom I even then had learnt to
revere, and whose pupil I became during one of my

happy long vacations at Cambridge.
     The laws of quarantine were curiously minute.

Metal, such as a coin, was not supposed to be so

deeply infected but that a simple washing would
purify it ; paper must be pricked and fumigated ;

but clothing had to undergo as much quarantine as
the wearer, and even more, as will be seen later on.

It was ruled that if any part of a cloth or fabric of

fibres was touched by a person in quarantine, the
whole of it became equally tainted. So I put to my
54 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

guardian the case of touching one end of a very long

rope, but could get no reasonable answer, any more

than a child can when he puts searching questions.

Violation of quarantine is a very serious offence. A

soldier would shoot a person without mercy, and with

the approbation of his superiors, if that appeared to

be the only way of preventing
                                                    I it.
The nine or ten days' rest in quarantine at Syra

was by no means ungrateful.                                made myself occu

pation, and they passed pleasantly. The process of
giving "pratique " was amusing. We were drawn up

in row, and the medical officer walked up and down
a

s"tePruntlyoustcryuotuinristionngguuess. ,"  Then   he     gave the order of
                                             which  we     all did simultane

ously, and he passed along the line at two paces

               looking at our tongues. Then he
distance from  it,
                            I
added, "Do exactly as do," whereupon he clapped

himself sharply under the left armpit with his right

hand, and under the right armpit with the left hand.

Similarly on the left and right groins. This was to

prove that  none of the glandular swellings                that give
the name    of " bubonic " plague were there,              otherwise

the pain of the performance would have been intoler

able. Then, with  sudden change from                                           stern
I
   I

                            a
                                 a

                                                                            a
                                                                           a
aspect, he put on most friendly and courteous smile,
and stepping forwards he shook each of us cordially

by the hand, and we were freed. A couple of days

had to pass before the next steamer started for Trieste,

which occupied in rambling about the island, living
for one day almost wholly on figs-- which was unwise,

because too much of them affects the kidneys.

   started with the steamer, had                           few, but

memorable, hours at Athens, lay for two days in
            SHORT TOUR TO THE EAST            55

quarantine off Ancona, and was landed in the quaran

tine at Trieste. What Turkey was to Greece in

respect of  quarantine, that Greece  was to   Turkey.
     There  was a curious custom at           of " making
                                     Trieste

Spoglio" as they phrased it. When three or four days

of the normal length of quarantine had still to run, it

was permissible to strip and leave all clothes behind,

to bathe, to put on new clothes, and to be free. The

process is based on the assumption that the well-

washed human body, if in apparent health after say

a week's seclusion, may justly be considered free from

infection, whereas the clothes worn by it must remain

still longer in quarantine. What happened was this.

We were inspected by the doctor, and then directed

to the edge of a covered quay, opposite to which was

another quay where old-clothes men displayed their

wares ; a strip of sea water, perhaps 4 or 5 feet deep

and 20 wide, separated the two quays. A bargain

had to be made with one of the old-clothes men by

shouting across the water. I was to leave everything

I had on me, excepting coin or other metal, and papers

which were about to be fumigated, in exchange for

the offered clothes. When the bargain was concluded,

I stripped, plunged in, and emerged on the opposite

quay stark naked, to be newly clothed and to receive

freedom. The clothes-man got my old things in due
time-- that was his affair. The new clothes were thin,

and the trousers were made of a sort of calico and

deficient in the fashionable cut of my old ones ; but

as it was not then late in the year the thinness

mattered little in those latitudes, and I did not care

about the rest.

I occupied two of the days I had saved by making
   5<S       MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Spoglio, in visiting the wonderful caves of Adelsberg.I

A view over the Adriatic when driving up the moun

tain-side on the way to that place, remains still in my
mind as one of the three or four most glorious views

that have had the privilege to see. The long walk

underground at Adelsberg, the black and vicious

stream that ran through                                 I       looking like a river of

death, and the fantastic stalactites and stalagmites       it,

were indeed astonishing.                                      bought two of the curious

creatures called Proteus, that live in these underground

waters. They have no real eyes, but sightless dots in
the place of them their colour that of the buried
    I                                                           is
        I                                                                 it
                                                                               is
portion of stems of celery (etiolated, asI                                         commonly
                                                     ;
called), and they have both gills and lungs. They

were the first living creatures of their kind brought

to England.                                           gave them to King's College one
                                                                                   ;

soon died, the other lived and was yearly lectured

on, as heard, until fate in the form of a cat ended

him.

       went from Trieste by steamer to Venice, and

thence by diligence to Milan, whence travelled by
                                                                I

diligence to Geneva, with the bottle containing the
two Proteus under my thin coat, for fear of the water

freezing while crossing the Alps. At Geneva had
                                                                                   it
a  few evening hours to spare, which spent at the                                     I
                                                                I
theatre, and thence on by diligence to Boulogne.                   in                       It

took me either seven days and eight nights, or con
versely, to reach Boulogne from Milan, and was of

course tiring to sit up and be shaken a diligence

during that long time. My legs began to swell before

I  reached Boulogne, but the two or three hours of

lying down in the Channel steamer quite restored

them.
SHORT TOUR TO THE EAST  57

     So I reached my home in Leamington safely and

in good time, and my dear kind father took my

escapade humorously. He was pleased with it rather
than otherwise, for I had much to tell and had

obviously gained a great deal of experience. This

little expedition proved to be an important factor in

moulding my after-life. It vastly widened my views

of humanity and civilisation, and it confirmed aspira

tions for travel which were afterwards indulged.
                          CHAPTER V

                                  CAMBRIDGE

Trinity College -- First vacation at the Lakes -- Second vacation at
      Aberfeldy -- College friends -- Entire breakdown in health --Third
      vacation in Germany -- My father's death

IT was a notable day in my life when, in the year
        1840, escorted by my father on the top of a
stage coach, I caught my first view of the principal
buildings of Cambridge. There was no railway to
Cambridge then. I had been entered at Trinity
College, where rooms were assigned to me on the

first floor of B. New Court. My tutor was J. W.

Blakesley (1808-1885), an accomplished classical
scholar, contemporary with Tennyson and his set,

and subsequently Dean of Lincoln. The then Master
of the College, who, however, resigned his post after
the close of my first term, was Christopher Words
worth (1774-1846), brother of the poet and father
of three distinguished classical scholars, -- John ;
Charles, Bishop of St. Andrew's ; and Christopher,
the headmaster of Harrow. The biographies of
them all appear in the Dict. Nat. Biog. I found but

few old friends among the undergraduates besides
Matthew Boulton, but gradually fell into my place.

I soon became conscious of the power and thorough
ness of the work about me, as of a far superior order
to anything I had previously witnessed. At the
CAMBRIDGE  59

same time I wondered at its narrowness, for not a

soul seemed to have the slightest knowledge of, or
interest in, what I had acquired in my medical
education and what we have since learnt to call

Biology. The religious dogmas were of a more
archaic type than I had latterly learnt to hold. I

thought that just as the medicals wanted the
thoroughness of the classicals and of the mathe

maticians, so these wanted at least an elementary
knowledge of what was familiar to the medicals.

Great and salutary changes have long since been
introduced, and the above criticism, which was

perfectly just at the time, is now, I believe and
trust, almost wholly out of date.

     I stood far behind the majority of my fellow-

freshmen in classics, but less so in elementary
mathematics, which were then much neglected in
schools ; for I had an innate love of them, and had

indulged in some little private study. I pass lightly
over my first year, which was a period of general
progress, without much of note, until the first vacation

arrived.

     I then formed one of a reading party who went
to Keswick in Cumberland, and had rooms in the same

house with the two tutors, Matheson and Eddis. It
was called " Browtop," and was then a detached villa

with a wide prospect, situated in the district that now

bears that name. One other pupil lived there also ;

the rest had lodgings in the town. Being in those
years careless of rain and little sensitive to the ener
vating air of the Lake District, I found myself
perfectly happy. The hills being moderate in height
and the distances small, an afternoon sufficed easily
60 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

for most of the excursions, so the whole morning was
left free for reading. Matheson, the mathematical

tutor, was a well-known Fellow of Trinity College, a
considerable pianist and a good walker. He also
knew the country and many of its residents. Among
these was the Rev. Frederic Myers (1811-1851),
Vicar of Keswick, who had married into the
Marshall family, and who showed me much kindness.
He was father to the as yet unborn poet and
spiritualist, Frederic W. H. Myers (1 843-1 901), and

his house was a social centre.
     I saw a most amusing scene in its drawing-room,

which those who recollect the formidable presence of

Dr. Whewell will appreciate. All male animals,

including men, when they are in love, are apt to
behave in ways that seem ludicrous to bystanders.
Whewell was not exempt from the common lot,
though he had to sustain his new dignity of " Master

of Trinity." He was then paying court to the lady who

became his first wife, and his behaviour reminded me

irresistibly of a turkey-cock similarly engaged. I
fancied that I could almost hear the rustling of his

stiffened feathers, and did overhear these sonorous
lines of Milton rolled out to the lady & propos of
I know not what, "cycle and epicycle, orb and orb,"
with hollow o's and prolonged trills on the r's.

     The following skit indicates the feeling in regard
to Whewell's manner that was current in Cambridge
after he had assumed his office. I was reminded
of it not so very many months ago, by the late
Lord Kelvin :--

      "You may roam where you will through the realms of infinity
         And find nothing so great as the Master of Trinity."
CAMBRIDGE  6l

     Those who have read Whewell's Life, which was

written by a loving hand and dwells mainly on his
kindly, domestic character, will gather little idea of
the rough power of the man and his too frequent
overbearing attitude. In after-days he invited me to
the Lodge, where I found him most unexpectedly

gracious.

    It may be worth mentioning that at the time of

which I am writing, brakes to carriages were unknown
in England except in the Lake Country, where the
many hills made it difficult to travel without restraint,
unless by frequently stopping to put on or take off the

drag. Their use gradually spread, as the first senti
mental opposition to them subsided. A near relative
of my own, who was a devoted whip and drove his

own four-horse drag for many years, was at first con

temptuous towards brakes, but soon changed his mind,

and ever afterwards used one.

     One of the longer excursions was to Scawfell, where
I found a small encampment of ordnance surveyors
with theodolite and heliostat. Their immediate

object was to obtain by direct observation the bearing
of Snowdon, ninety-six miles off (as I think they said),

to form the side of one of their principal triangles. A

corresponding station was set up on the top of
Snowdon, whence after many days' waiting in vain
the long-wished-for star of light reflected from the sun
by the mirror on Snowdon, became faintly but clearly

visible through the telescope at Scawfell. It had been

seen on three days altogether, two of which were suc
cessive. The obstruction to light by a few miles of mist,
etc., in the lower layers of the atmosphere, contrasts
forcibly with the ease with which every detail of the
62 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

far more distant moon becomes visible when risen but

a few degrees above the horizon.

     Talking of such things reminds me of an ele

mentary but very neat little problem that was set

about this time in one of the College examination
papers. It has often served me as a rough reminder
                                           :--
of  the constants involved, so  I give it
                                each ten   feet
     " The tops of two masts,                    above  calm

water, are just visible to one another at a distance of

eight miles ; what is the diameter of the earth ?
Aerial refraction is not to be taken into account." I

leave its solution to the reader.

    One of the features of my stay at the Lakes was

the wrestling and other field sports, then much more
homely in their accessories than they are now. I took
lessons from one of the family of Ivens, among whom

were many noted wrestlers. My teacher was the
light-weight champion of the year. It was interesting

to observe the wary approach and half-catchings of the

opponents before one of them succeeded in grappling ;

then the tug-of-war began.

     An event occurred at this time closely similar in

many respects, but not in its most painful details,

to one previously related by De Quincey in his
reminiscences of S. T. Coleridge, as having occurred
in the Lake District in the early years of last century.
I was quite ignorant of it till very lately, when I

happened to be reading his book. My story is that
of a Polish Count, O., who appeared at Keswick with

scant introductions, took a house, and made himself

most agreeable. I fell at once under his influence,

for he seemed to me extraordinarily accomplished.

He had all sorts of books and instruments, and even
CAMBRIDGE  63

a tame monkey ! So the Count throve and prospered
for a while. But a lady resident in the neighbourhood
who had been connected in her youth with one of

the German Courts, and who studied the Almanach

de Gotha and the like, insisted that the Count's claims

to the title were totally unfounded. So a small
warfare raged. In the meantime the Count won the
affections of a simple girl, the orphan child of a

somewhat wealthy "statesman," that is what we

should call a yeoman farmer. He married her, and

afterwards ran away with as much of her money as

he could get hold of, leaving her with the questionable

title of Countess as her only consolation. This finale
occurred after I had left.

     I grieve deeply that I knew little at that time
of the Lake Poets, except Byron's lines on the

correct poetical creed --

"Thou shalt believe in Milton, Dryden, Pope;
  Thou shalt not trust in Wordsworth, Coleridge, Southey. . . ."

     In consequence, I made no effort to obtain the

honour of seeing and possibly receiving some slight
introduction to any one of its then living members.
Neither did I ever see Dr. Arnold, though I walked
with Strickland, one of our reading party and a
former pupil of his, as far as his door, which he

entered to spend half an hour with him, while I

waited and envied.

     Strickland was the son of a well-known Yorkshire
baronet. He joined me in many pleasant walks from
London after my college days, of which I especially
recollect one in the then rural Isle of Wight, when

there was little more than a single house at Shanklin,
64 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

and that was its pretty, rustic hotel. The times of

travel from London so fitted in, that the walk from

Ryde about Easter-time began well before twilight,
and we reached Shanklin not too late to be taken

in and to thoroughly enjoy the moonlit evening.

Strickland was a strong swimmer, but he got into

some difficulty next morning owing to the surf and

undercurrents at the place where he entered the sea.

He returned safely to shore, to my great relief, but

much tired from long battling with the water.

    His end was tragic. It occurred in North America,

when winter had just set in, near some well-known

watering-place whose name I forget, separated by a

low range of hills from another watering place about

sixteen miles off. The road between the two was per

fectly simple and easy in summer, but not so in the

snowdrifts and darkness of winter. Strickland would

         though much was said to dissuade him
attempt  I it,

                                                                       (1

                                                                         I:
he never reached his destination. A relief party

tracked his wanderings. He seemed to have acted

as one demented by the hardship, for he had stripped

off his clothes and thrown them away, one after the

other, even his boots, so that his dead body was

almost wholly undressed. That was the story

heard from two persons.

On returning to Cambridge after the first long

vacation, was put steadily to mathematical work,

coming at length under that most distinguished

Cambridge tutor, William Hopkins  793-1 866),

mathematician and geologist. He kindly took a

good deal of interest in me and gave me much

encouragement, but the hopes he fostered were

shattered by serious illness, which precluded severe
   CAMBRIDGE                                  65

study during my third year, as will be mentioned

farther on. At a later date I found myself his

colleague as Joint Secretary to the British Associa

tion, but his health had by then declined and his

fine intellect begun to fail. I never had a tutor

whom I reverenced and loved so entirely as

Hopkins.

    It was early in my second year that I entered
into a close friendship with two Etonians. The one

was Henry Fitzmaurice Hallam (1 824-1 850), the
younger son of the historian Henry Hallam ( 1 777--
s1u8b5j9e)ctanodfbrToethnenrystoonA'srthIunr  Hallam (181 1-1833), the
                                              Memoriam. The other

friend was F. Campbell, the eldest son of Lord

Campbell (1779-1861), then Lord Chief- Justice, and
afterwards Lord Chancellor. F. Campbell became

in later years, through succession, Lord Stratheden
and Campbell. I owe much to each of these fast

friends, but in different ways.

Harry Hallam had a singular sweetness and

attractiveness of manner, with a love of harmless

banter and paradox, and was keenly sympathetic

with all his many friends. He won the Second

Chancellor's Medal. Through him I became intro

duced to his father's house, still shadowed by the

sudden death of his son Arthur and of a daughter.

Mr. Hallam was very kind to me, and the friendship
of him and of his family was one of the corner-stones

of my life-history. I met many eminent persons at

his house. Harry Hallam, like his brother and sister,

died suddenly and young, to my poignant grief. His
death occurred while I was away in South Africa.

I have visited the quiet church at Clevedon where

5
66 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

all the Hallams lie, each memorial stone bearing a
briefly pathetic inscription, and kneeling alone in a
pew by their side, spent the greater part of a solitary
hour in unrestrained tears.

     F. Campbell had set for himself an ideal of public

life that was too high for his powers, and many would

say that he greatly failed in it. It may be so, but he

had what I prized beyond anything else, a capacity
for steady friendship, and a disposition unalloyed by
pettiness. I always found help when consulting him
about any of my own difficulties, because he put things
in fresh lights and always with noble intent. He
died in 1893. Through being his friend, I was
entertained with much kindness by his father at

Stratheden House, and received important help on

more than one occasion.

     It was mainly through these two men, Hallam and

Campbell, that I first became acquainted with most
of the ablest undergraduates of that day. Of these
Maine (Sir Henry S. Maine, 182 2-1 888) ranked the
highest. He had a great charm of manner with much
beauty of feature, and was one of the few non-Trinity
men who became thoroughly at home in Trinity itself.
In later years, when he had become an eminent jurist
and had filled with distinction the highest legal post
in India, I used to enjoy long talks with him at the
Athenaeum Club, mostly on topics connected with
Primitive Culture.

     The subject of prehistoric civilisation was novel

even so late as the early fifties, and was discussed

independently from two different sides. The line
of approach that Maine followed was to investigate
the customs of the so-called Aryan races. The other
                       CAMBRIDGE                              67

line was by the study of living savage races, and of

such inferences regarding the past as might be drawn

from implements and bones preserved in prehistoric

graves and caverns. The horizon of the Antiquarians

was so narrow at about the date of my Cambridge

days, that the whole history of the early world was

literally believed, by many of the best informed men,

to be contained in the Pentateuch. It was also

practically supposed that nothing more of importance

could be learnt of the origins of civilisation during

classical times than was to be found definitely stated

in classical authors.

Sir H. Maine considerably extended this narrow

horizon through his close analysis of classical writings

in the light of his Indian experiences, but he was

always tempted to look on what was really a very

advanced form of civilisation as if it had been

primitive, and thereby laid himself open to violent

attack. Among his opponents, J. F. MacLennan

(1827-1881), the author of Marriage by Capture, etc.,

was eminently impetuous, and Maine, knowing that

I was well acquainted with him, begged me to do

what I could to moderate his controversial tone ;
I tried in vain. This, however, is travelling many
years ahead. I had often occasion to consult Sir H.

Maine on subjects that I had then in hand, and always

found him a most helpful adviser.

    It is difficult to select illustrative episodes of my

Cambridge   odfayKsi.ng'Ws i(ll1ia8m23-Jo1h8n92s)o,n"  Cory,  then known
as Johnson                                             Poet,  and Master

at Eton," was a remarkable character. He was

easily the first classic of his year, as tested by the

brilliancy of his performance in gaining the Craven
68 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Scholarship soon after joining the University. At

that time he was eccentric, very short-sighted, and

Johnsonian in appearance, but these peculiarities wore
off so much that, on his calling on me some years

afterwards, fashionably dressed and polished in manner,

I did not at first recognise him. He took an active

part in a small Epigram Club which flourished for

a while and then ceased, but which gave rise to some

good verses. I recollect the roll of the first line of

one by Maine -- " King Daniel of Derrinane . . ."--

that referred to a recent action of Daniel O'Connell.

     Tom Taylor (1817-1880), "Dramatist and Editor
of Punch" was full of vigour and versatility, but
a few years older than those of whom I have been
speaking. He had recently been elected Fellow of
the College. In those days Punch was newly started,

and Tom Taylor thought he could do better, so he

founded a weekly comic paper called Puck, for which
he endeavoured to obtain contributors. It was fairly

good, but did not live long. Many years later he
became editor of the very periodical he then wished

to crush.

I saw much of Joseph and E. Kay, half-brothers

tohfeS"irFJoaumnedser  Kay-Shuttleworth (1 804-1 877),  who was
                        of English Popular Education."    Joseph
Kay (1821-1878), "Economist," was appointed

"Travelling Bachelor," a University post that at that

time attracted little competition, because the conditions

attached to its tenure were inconvenient to most rising

men. Its possession, therefore, carried little weight.
But Joseph Kay utilised to the full his position of
" Travelling Bachelor of the University of Cambridge "

in obtaining help abroad, and he wrote and published
                    CAMBRIDGE                       69

a valuable Report with that title, which attracted

much attention. He took in it an opposite position

to one previously occupied by Whewell. I beg to be

pardoned if my memory plays tricks, but my im

pression is that Whewell's efforts to subdue his own

indignation         at being    bearded  in   this  way by a mere
" Travelling          Bachelor   " were  all  the   more amusing

because he was impotent to retort. Joseph Kay was

perfectly in order in asserting his rank ; he was

judged by competent outsiders to have written very

ably, and he was no longer a resident in Trinity

College within immediate reach of Whewell's wrath.
     E. Kay (1822-1897), afterwards Lord Justice of

Appeal, had rooms on the same staircase as myself,

and we wasted a great deal of time together, both in

term and in my second summer vacation. But

however idle he may have been at College, he richly

made up for it afterwards by hard and steady legal

work, out of which he finally emerged as a Judge

with a large fortune made at the Bar.

     Charles Buxton (1 823-1 871), son of the phil

anthropist Sir T. Fowell Buxton (1 786-1845) and

father of the present Postmaster-General, was another

intimate friend. He was a far-off relative of my own,

and one of the most favourable examples of a Rugby

product under Dr. Arnold. Other similar examples

of highly favourable products occur at once to the

memory, such as Dean Stanley, Dean Lake, and
Walrond, but unquestionably the common opinion of

oCfam" bprriidgg"e    undergraduates then     assigned the epithet
                    to most Rugby boys.        I can exactly recall

the combination of qualities that occasioned the

offence ; they were partly an unconscious Phariseeism
70 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

combined with want of "go," and partly a Rugby
voice and manner. Eton boys were rated far higher
than they. I do not recollect whether any generalisa
tion was formed at that time in respect to Harrow
boys, who were then few in number. To return to
Charles Buxton, he gave me the idea of perfection in
respect to a highly honourable class of mind. This

did not include exceptional brilliance, such as charac
terised some of the men mentioned above, but it

did include most of the manly virtues and as much

common sense as was consistent with a charming dash

of originality. His elder brother Fowell, who has

lately died, had rooms on the same staircase as myself.

     W. G. Clark ( 1 821-1878) was another contem
porary of whom I saw much then and in after years.
His strong bent had been towards diplomacy, but

he wanted the fortune and connections necessary for

success in such a career, so his desire remained

unfulfilled. He loved to bring back impressions of

travel, whether made in the Peloponnesus or in the

rear of Garibaldi. He was Public Orator of the

University for many years, and Vice-Master of
Trinity College. Consequently, as a matter of course
in those days, he was an ordained clergyman. But
he chafed under the fetters of orthodoxy, and became
a prominent member of the small group of men who
procured the Act that allowed clergymen to retire

from their office without retaining clerical disabilities.

His career was clouded towards its end by insidious
mental disease. He lived long retired in almost
complete solitude in a Yorkshire inn, but sometimes
sent bits of elegant Greek poetry to old classical

friends, as to Justice Denman. A small volume of
                    CAMBRIDGE                                                          71

poems published under his initials contains some gems.

He had lost a favourite male cousin in youth whose

death affected him deeply and gave the chief motive

to the book of poems in question.1

My second long vacation was spent with a reading

party in Aberfeldy, in Perthshire, under the guidance

of two tutors as usual, of whom one was Arthur

Cayley (1821-1895), whose mathematical work soon

gained a world-wide reputation. He and Sylvester

(1814-1897) became the two leading mathematicians
of England. Cayley was reputed to be the more solid,

Sylvester the more daring and brilliant. I saw

much of Sylvester a dozen or more years after the

date of which I now speak, and for a brief time also
at the English Lakes. He was a great friend of

Cayley, and corresponded with him very often about

his own numerous new ideas, becoming subsequently

depressed or elated according to the tenor of the
                                                                   I have heard him
answer.    Over and over again                                                         say,
          send this to Cayley,"                                    or again, " Cayley   has
" I must

pointed out a difficulty." He was charmingly naive,

and both were men of prodigious mental power.

When the time came for adjudging the Copley Medal to

one or other of them, the highest honour of the Royal

Society, which it annually bestows on the foremost

man in science of whatever branch, in all Europe,

there was much discussion as to which of the two

should first have   was a member of its Council
1
          :

                           is it.

                            I

                                                               is
       One of the verses still haunts my memory and deserves                           repro
duction --

          "The brook sings not so cheerily as of yore,

          The young spring leaf withered and upcurled,

          The rose  scentless, and the sunbeam cold,

          Truly there's something wanting in the world."
it,72 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE
                             a
                                 inat the time; the opinions of most of us, including
                                                       it ;myself, were of course largely guided by those of the
eminent mathematicians who were also members of
                                                                                                                      ;
   and by the result of private inquiries. The opinions
                                                         Iin favour of Sylvester prevailed Cayley received the
Medal a few years subsequently.
    I
     Never was man whose outer physique so belied
his powers as that of Cayley. There was somethinga
eerie and uncanny his ways, that inclined strangers
isto pronounce him neither to be wholly sane nor gifted
with much intelligence, which was the very reverse
of the truth. Again, he appeared so frail as to be
incapable of ordinary physical work not a bit of it.
One morning he coached us as usual and dined early
with us at our usual hour. The next morning he did
the same, all just as before, but afterwards transpired
that he had not been to bed at all in the meantime, but

had tramped all night through over the moors to and

about Loch Rannoch. As to memory, found by

pure accident that he could repeat poetry by the yard

so to speak, and that of many kinds. His shy,

retiring ways did no justice whatever to his gigantic

 mental capacity.
         was, in very humble way, able to compare the

work of various mathematical teachers with that of
Cayley. The latter moved his symbols in battalions,

 along broad roads, careless of short cuts, and he
 managed them with the easy command of a great
 general. The very look of his papers, written in
 firm handwriting and well proportioned lengths of line,

 bore thoroughness and accuracy on their face. This
     not over fanciful. William Spottiswoode (1825-

 1883), himself a mathematician and President of the
                 CAMBRIDGE                                73

Royal Society, of whom I shall have to speak later,

laid much stress on the general aspect of mathematical
papers as indicating in many ways the value of their

contents, and I could quote other authorities to a

similar effect.

We had a pleasant and a social time at Aberfeldy,

for the residents in the neighbourhood were very kind

to us. Sir Neil and Lady Menzies of Menzies

Castle, to whom I had an introduction, lived amid

Highland surroundings. One of these consisted of a

full-dressed piper who strutted up and down the long

hall during dinner with the self-sufficiency of the

drum-major of a regimental band, squirling on his

abominable instrument. But there was also an

abundance of Southern culture.

     The visit of the Queen to Lord Breadalbane at
the neighbouring Castle of Taymouth gave rise to the

following permanent impression on me. On return
ing to my rooms after a walk, I found all my books

and things taken away and replaced by the gear of a

cavalry officer, who was sitting uninvited at my own

table as lord and master of  could hardly contain
                             I it.
my wrath, but he was courteous and amused, thoughI

firm. He was billeted there, consequentlyis               must

give way and yield my occupancy to him. He had    I
                                                       I
been told there was another room available for me to

which my things had been taken, but go must and

at once. This little incident made me realise the

odiousness and too probable insolence of military rule,

and the lesson sank deep.    gained on the spot a

Quaker-like repugnance to the sight of the accoutre
ments of a soldier, that exists to this day under
certain conditions, and its source still recognisable.
74 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

     On returning to Cambridge the old life re
commenced, but on an enlarged scale, and more

friends were made, among whom were George
Denman (18 19-1896), afterwards a Judge, and the

son of Lord Chief-Justice Denman ( 1 779- 1854). He
combined classical capacity with power of muscle and

endurance, both in a very high degree, for he was
Senior Classic of his year and Stroke Oar of the

University crew. He lived a double life, warily look
ing after his own boat crew, the First Trinity, and
joining their rollickings in order to keep them within
bounds, but doing hard mental work at other hours.
I think he was perhaps the most respected of all the
undergraduates. In after years he told me the
following extraordinary anecdote of Macaulay's
memory. He, Denman, had obtained the prize for
Greek verse and had to recite his composition.
Macaulay was a guest at Trinity Lodge and heard

the recitation. Some years after, when Denman had
half forgotten the occurrence and imperfectly re
collected what he had then written, he was introduced
to Macaulay, who exclaimed at once, " Why, it was

you who recited those verses," which he straightway

repeated.

     Memories so crowd on me that I find it difficult

to stop. Something ought to have been said of a
singularly attractive man with quaint turns of thought,
H. Vaughan Johnson, who lived on the same staircase
as myself, and who collaborated in legal work with
E. Kay, of whom I have already spoken. He married
a sister of my friend, then F. Campbell, afterwards
Lord Stratheden and Campbell.

     Also I should mention W. F. Gibbs, who became
CAMBRIDGE  75

tutor to the then Prince of Wales, now King
Edward vn. Gibbs obtained his Trinity Scholarship
at the same time as F. Gell, who was afterwards

Bishop of Madras. Gibbs was gifted with agility ;
Gell was very short-sighted, and the reverse of agile,
but he possessed a grand nose, the finest I have ever
seen, and a glory to the College. These two, as
Gibbs told me, exuberant with joy from gaining their
scholarships, rushed down the avenue of limes at the
back of the College and through the gate at the end,
where a row of low bars confronted them ; Gibbs,

who led, jumped lightly over them, but Gell, who
followed, blundered, tripped, fell heavily on his

face, and ruined his grand nose for ever. The bars
are still there ; whenever I pass that way I recall the

tragedy.

     Two events may be mentioned to show how long

the duelling spirit lingered. One was a row at the

Union which nearly dismembered it. I partly forget

how it originated, and it would hardly be worth while

to record it if I did. It culminated in the formation
of two fiercely opposed parties, P. and C, and by a

leading member of the C. party being bludgeoned in
the dark by two members of the P. party. They

had awaited his exit from the dark staircase leading
from his rooms into Neville Court. The tumult that

this caused among the already excited undergraduates
is barely conceivable. The C. party, to which I

belonged, formed itself into a Committee and sent to
an Indian officer, then living with his family in

Cambridge, entreating him to come and advise us
how to act. The officer himself happened to be
delayed for half an hour, but he sent in advance,
76 MEMORIES OE MY LIFE

quite as a matter of course, a neat box containing

a pair of duelling pistols ready for use.
     I may add that a special meeting of the Union

was forthwith called, for which it was obviously

necessary to provide an exceptionally strong but

neutral President. A man known as " First Trinity "

Young (I forget his Christian name), who died in

early life or he might have highly distinguished

himself, was selected for the purpose, and he exe

cuted admirably his most difficult task. It gave me
a lesson in administration. He began with a brief

but emphatic request for cordial support from both

sides, adding that every question had more than one

aspect. Humorous but apt remarks were thrown out

by him now and then. An equally patient hearing

was given to all parties, and a few occasional inter

ruptions were firmly repressed. The meeting parted

with its members much more disposed towards
working relations than before ; so the extremity of

the crisis was passed.
an oIptspocsoitnisoenquseonccieety,wacsa,llehdowtheeve"r,Htihsetorciocnasl,t"ituintiownhicohf

more attention should be paid to decorum and to the
amenities of debate than had latterly been customary

in the Union. About sixty members joined and,
                                      it,

                                             Ia
partly because was then living out of College in
I

house where there was a possible meeting room,

was asked to preside, which did. My old friend
                    I

Dr. H. Holden (1823-1896), with whom  I  was

speaking some few years ago of this very incident,

assured me that     among the active members of the
" Historical " was  Stanley, afterwards the 15th Earl

of Derby (1826-1893). He entered the University
                    CAMBRIDGE                            77

not long before I quitted
           I

                                                it,

                                                      I
                           during, suppose, my

absence of one term from Cambridge through illness.

Anyhow, do not in the least recollect his presence.

Speaking of the still lingering practice of duelling,

C. Bristed, an American who came to Cambridge for
a couple of years or so, and whose racy ways made

him everywhere an acceptable guest, had a strange

experience. Some few years after we had left the

University, F. Campbell asked us both to dine with

him at Stratheden House, where he was at the

moment the only member of his family residence.
                                                         in

                                                                     It in
Bristed gave us there the full account of a duel

which he had unexpectedly become engaged.

occurred near a German watering - place that lay

within short distance of French territory. He
         a
              a
had been criticising his future opponent pretty

freely in        local paper, with the result that on

leaving church with his young wife, where they

had just joined in taking the Sacrament, a note

was handed to him containing a challenge, and

suggesting       a  place in French territory for the

encounter. There seemed no other feasible course

than to accept that most untimely challenge, which

he did. On arriving at the ground, the combatants

were placed 40 paces apart, with instructions to
walk towards one another, each to fire his one shot

whenever he thought proper. Bristed, who was

rather short-sighted, said that his opponent looked

absurdly far away, and that he considered the safest

plan for himself was to "draw" his adversary's shot
before they came nearer together, which he did. He

fired harmlessly, and a harmless shot came in reply.

All the time he was recounting this very irregular
78 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

proceeding, I kept the corner of my eye fixed on a
portrait of the Lord Chief-Justice, that hung opposite,

and thought how incongruous the conversation was

with its presence.

     I received a kindly welcome from time to time
after leaving Cambridge, in the homes of not a few of
my fellow-undergraduates. One was that of Robert,
afterwards Sir Robert Dalyell. His father, Captain
Sir William Dalyell, was a naval veteran with a scar

across his face left by a severe gash, who had quarters
in Greenwich Hospital as one of the Captains in com
mand, the constitution of Greenwich Hospital being
then totally different from what it is now. The family
consisted of himself, Lady Dalyell, and their two

daughters. Numerous friends appeared every Sunday.

We visitors walked and had tea, spending healthful

and delightful summer afternoons, usually returning to
London by river. The life of a young bachelor in not

over elegant lodgings is vastly cheered by such occa
sional outings. They give great pleasure all round
with very little expenditure either of exertion or of

cost.

     The family of Crompton Hutton, who lived at
Putney Park, were most kind in a similar way, to
myself, to E. Kay, and many others. That family
was soon sadly broken up by deaths. One of the

merriest of the sisters in those days was the wife, and
latterly the widow, of Lord Lingen, who herself has

died since I first wrote these lines. Lord Lingen was,
I need hardly add, for a long time one of the most
valuable civil servants of his country, first at the

Education Office and afterwards at the Treasury.

    It was during my third year at Cambridge that I
CAMBRIDGE  79

broke down entirely in health and had to lose a term

and go home. I suffered from intermittent pulse and

a variety of brain symptoms of an alarming kind. A

mill seemed to be working inside my head ; I could

not banish obsessing ideas ; at times I could hardly
read a book, and found it painful even to look at a
printed page. Fortunately, I did not suffer from

sleeplessness, and my digestion failed but little.
Even a brief interval of complete mental rest did me

good, and it seemed as if a long dose of it might
wholly restore me. It would have been madness to
continue the kind of studious life that I had been

leading. I had been much too zealous, had worked
too irregularly and in too many directions, and had

done myself serious harm. It was as though I had

tried to make a steam-engine perform more work than
it was constructed for, by tampering with its safety
valve and thereby straining its mechanism. Happily,
the human body may sometimes repair itself, which

the steam-engine cannot.

     As it had become impossible for me to continue
reading for mathematical honours, I abandoned all
further intention of trying for them, and occupied part
of my remaining time at Cambridge in attending
medical lectures to fill up the necessary quota of

attendances that should qualify for a medical degree.
I spent my third long vacation in travelling with my

sister Emma in Germany. We stayed some weeks

in Dresden, where we joined the Hallams and ac

companied them during a little further travel, and

then I took my sister round by Vienna and back
home. Those were days of travelling by voiturier

and diligence.
8o MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

There was a good deal of talk at that time about

animal magnetism.  Its practice in Saxony was

forbidden by law, but an Austrian acquaintance in

Dresden invited me to his house across the frontier,

where I saw the elementary part of its practice,

namely, its inducing catalepsy and insensibility to

pain. I afterwards practised it at home, and

magnetised some eighty persons in this way ; but it is

an unwholesome procedure, and I have never attempted

it since. One experience was, however, of interest.

I had been assured that success was the effect of

strength of will on the part of the magnetiser, so at

first I exerted all the will-power I possessed, which

was fatiguing. I then, by way of experiment, inter

mitted a little, looking all the time in the same way

as before, and found myself equally successful. So I

intermitted more and more, and at last succeeded in

letting my mind ramble freely while I maintained the
same owl-like demeanour. This acted just as well.
The safe conclusion was that the effect is purely

subjective on the part of the patient, and that will

power on the part of the operator has nothing to do

with

    A main object of giving the foregoing brief notices
it.

                                    I
                                            it

                                                        is
                                                                             a
of notable persons with whom had the privilege of

being acquainted at Cambridge,  to show the

enormous advantages offered by a University to those

who care to profit by them. The body of under
graduates contains a very large majority of men of

mediocre gifts and tastes, but has also strong

infusion of the highest intellects of their age and
country, picked out of all the schools of England.

Among any body of young educated Englishmen
CAMBRIDGE  St

collected at random, some few will probably be found

who are destined to rise to distinction, but among a
group of those who are ranked as the foremost in a
University, more than one half of them will do so.

     For my own part, I had hoped to take respectable

mathematical honours, though perhaps it was never

in my power to do so, notwithstanding the assurances
of my eminent tutor, Mr. Hopkins. But the utter
breakdown of my health in my third year, as already
explained, made further study of a severe kind im

possible. I therefore followed my bent in reading

what I could, and my time was by no means wasted.
I contented myself with a Poll Degree. Judge there
fore of my surprise a few years ago, while passing a

winter on the Riviera, when a telegram reached me
saying I had been elected to the rare honour of an

Honorary Fellowship in Trinity College. I thought
at first it must be a mistake, but it was not. Nay
more, hearing that a copy of a portrait recently made
of me by the late Charles Furse (see frontispiece)
would be acceptable, I had one made and offered it
to the authorities of the College. It now hangs in
its Hall among those of men with whom I feel it the

highest possible honour to be associated in any way.
      I must recur briefly to the close of my medical

education. As already mentioned, I attended some

lectures during one term at Cambridge, but had not
even admittance to the then small Addenbrook

 Hospital. I have little to tell about this period that

would interest others than myself. It was thought

well that I should complete my course in London
at St. George's, for the purpose of seeing new
conditions of medical treatment. I attended these

               6
82 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

necessarily in a desultory way, on account of an

impending domestic sorrow. My dear father's

originally fine constitution, long tried by severe
asthma and gout, had at length seriously given way.

He required continual medical and surgical treatment
and trusted in me, so to him I went. The end came
in October 1844 at Hastings. His remains had to
be taken to Leamington. It was a wretched journey,

for the railway was not even then completed the
whole way.

     The effect of his death was to remove the main

bond that kept our family together, and we soon

became more or less separated. Two of my sisters
married within the year, and I found myself with a

sufficient fortune to make me independent of the
medical profession. So my status of pupilhood was
closed, and I had henceforth to be my own director.
Being much upset and craving for a healthier life, I
abandoned all thought of becoming a physician, but
felt most grateful for the enlarged insight into Nature
that I had acquired through medical experiences.
                       CHAPTER VI

                    EGYPT AND THE SOUDAN

Family matters-- Malta and Alexandria -- Nile -- Korosko -- Berber by
      desert -- Boat to Khartum and White Nile -- Bayouda Desert to
      Dongola -- Wady Haifa and Cairo -- Recent visit to Professor Petrie's
       camp at Abydos

i' I AHE home side of my surroundings has been
          only slightly alluded to, not that it was of
small importance to myself, but because it belonged
to a different phase of my life from that with which
I am here chiefly concerned. When I had outgrown
the tuition of my sister Adele, I led in one sense
a solitary life. For though I joined my other two
unmarried sisters in their social amusements, I was

always treated by them and their companions as a
boy, and I felt during this time like an only child

with aunts. Their affection to me was deep, so was
mine to them, but it was not and could not be
reciprocated on equal terms. But I received in full
measure the priceless treasure of a home, in which

each member knew the essential characteristics, good
and bad, of all the others, and who loved each other
all the same, and would support him or her through

thick and thin. The younger of my brothers, Erasmus,

was mostly away ; in the first instance in the navy,
afterwards in farming his property in Somersetshire,
84 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

or again in service as an officer in the Militia. My
elder brother Darwin was a great favourite among
his friends from his early life onwards. He used

me as his fag when I was a boy, and taught me to be
fairly smart. I imbibed many common-sense maxims
from him, but our ideals of life differed to an almost

absurd degree : he had not the slightest care for
literature or science, and I had no taste for country
pursuits. Our differences of temperament became
more marked the older we grew. These few remarks,
in connection with what has previously been said,
will give a supplementary idea of what my surround

ings had been during much of my boyhood. It was

now the year 1845, when I was twenty -three years
old, and the acuteness of my late bereavement had

passed away.

     After the necessary legal business was finished,
the members of the family gradually adapted them
selves to their new conditions. My sister Emma
lived thenceforth with my mother, whose house,

whether at Claverdon or Leamington, I always
thought of as "home." Emma soon became my
loving and beloved correspondent, continuing so
during the remaining seventy years of her long life,
ever devoted to my interests and keenly sympathetic.
I was indeed fortunate in possessing such an unselfish

and affectionate sister. My sister Lucy was in
suffering health, from the results of acute rheumatic

fever when a child, and lived only three years longer.

My sisters Bessy and Adele were then either married
or about to be married ; my eldest brother Darwin
was married and living with his young wife and her
mother, Mrs. Philips, at her country house, called
        EGYPT AND THE SOUDAN                     85

" Edstone," between Stratford-on-Avon and Henley-

on-Arden ; and my second brother Erasmus was,
as already said, at his estate at Loxton in Somerset

shire.

     I  was therefore free, and I  meaagneyrly"  desired a com
plete   change ; besides, I had                  wild oats " yet

to sow. So I started on travel, this time to Egypt.
At Malta I found my old friend Robert Frere, of

whom I have already spoken. He was acting

medically towards his uncle, Hookham Frere, much

as I had been acting towards my own father.
Hookham Frere was too unwell to be seen, or I

should greatly have valued the privilege of a few

words with so accomplished a man, whatever his
diplomatic shortcomings may have been. Not the
less so because of the amusing parody written jointly
by himself and Canning of my grandfather Darwin's

Loves of the Plants under the title of Loves of the

Triangles, which gave a coup de grace to the turgid

poetry that had become a temporary craze in my

grandfather's time.

    At Malta I took steamer to Alexandria, and found

two Cambridge friends on board, who had been

travelling in Greece. They were Montagu Boulton,
the third and youngest brother of Matthew Boulton,
and Hedworth Barclay, a very distant kinsman of my

own and the son of David Barclay of Eastwick Park.
We ultimately agreed to join. Boulton had a first-
rate courier named Evard, who had also been groom

of the chamber to one of the most fashionable of

English families. Barclay had a good Greek cook,

Christopher, and I was to contribute a dragoman,

which I did. His name was Ali.
86 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

    Mehemet Ali was at that time the ruler of Egypt.

Barclay had an audience of him, and received the

usual firman entitling us to impress men to pull up
our boat at certain well-known places where the

stream is exceptionally strong. I myself saw the

old greybeard driving, but that was all. Shepherd's
Hotel then looked out upon rice-fields, and modern
Cairo did not exist, but Waghorn's overland wagons
to Suez had been established. After some stay
at Cairo, we hired a dahabeyah ; Barclay put on
board a keg of his own porter, and so we started,
intending to live luxuriously and in grand style.

We also engaged an Arab lad as coffee - bearer

and to make himself generally useful, who went

by the name of Bob. He turned out to be a lad

of parts.

     The morningswere delightful. We rolled out of our

beds half awake and tumbled ourselves into the river,

climbing back very wide awake indeed into the boat
by help of the big rudder, to the exquisite enjoyment

of the first cup of coffee and a pipe. We chattered

with Bob, the captain, sailors, and others, and soon

 smattered in Arabic. Boulton studied it classically as
 well, working very hard. So the voyage proceeded

 in the usual way. We were pulled safely up the First

 Cataract, and onward we went.
      When near Korosko, men had to be impressed, but

 a person in a rather shabby Egyptian dress, but of
 Egyptian rank as a Bey, claimed and insisted on
 precedence. We were cross, and relieved our minds
 by the use of uncomplimentary English words. But
 by the time we had walked together to Korosko we

  had become fairly friendly, for he was a far more
EGYPT AND THE SOUDAN  87

 interesting man than we had supposed, and had much

 to tell us in French. He invited us to see his hut,

 where everything was perfectly clean and well ordered.
 Small as it was, a scientific and literary air pervaded
 it. There were maps, good books and scientific
 instruments of various kinds, so my heart warmed
 towards him. Then he began to address us in fairly
 good English, and made us understand that he was
 quite aware of our phrases when we were cross, and that
 he forgave us, but did so in a dignified way. There
 was one thing we could do well which he could not,
 and that was to provide a really good dinner. Evard

 and the cook rose at once to the occasion, and nothing
 could have been managed in better style under the

 circumstances.

     The stranger proved to be Arnaud Bey, one of

the distinguished St. Simonians who, having been
banished from France, helped greatly to civilise Egypt

in the days of Mehemet Ali. He had just returned
from a long exploratory journey after gold and other
valuable products in the districts about the Blue Nile.
It will be hard now for a reader to put himself in the
attitude of geographical ignorance that was then
almost universal in respect to those places. Arnaud
said at last, " Why do you content yourself like other
tourists to go no farther than Wady Haifa ? Why not

travel overland by camel from this very place,

Korosko, to Khartum ? The Sheikh of the intervening

Bishari Desert is in the village at this very moment.
I know him well, and can easily arrange that he shall

take you to Berber at moderate cost. You will then
find your way by boat to Khartum." We were amazed
at the proposition, for the very names of those places
88 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

were unknown to us. He drew a map on a small
piece of paper for us to keep, on which he marked
bits of useful information. At length, after hours
of eating and drinking and talking, we fell wholly

                                                  into his plan. The

                                                      Sheikh was sent for,

                     and I shall never

            RUSALEM  forget his entrance.
                     The cabin reeked

                     with the smells of a

                     recent carouse, when

                     the door opened and

                     there stood the tall

                     Sheikh, marked with

                     sand on his forehead

                     that indicated recent

                     prostration in prayer.
                     The pure moonlight

                     flooded the Baccha

                     nalian cabin, and the

     OLD             clear cool desert air
IDONOOL.A1           poured in. I felt

                     swinish in the pre
                     sence of his Moslem

                     purity and imposing

                     mien. For all that, we

                     soon came to terms,

and were to start the day after the morrow. The boat

was to be sent to Wady Haifa under Bob in chief

command to await our return there, and we three and

our three servants were to travel into the unknown

on the backs of beasts strange to our experience.
So it all befell.
           EGYPT AND THE SOUDAN                        89

A more complete change can hardly be imagined

than that from a luxurious cabin to nightly open-air
bivouacs on the cold sand. Our first day was the

customary march of little more than an hour, to be

assured that nothing needful had been omitted. The
next day the real journey began. The track we

followed was presumably the same that has been

followed since the most ancient days ; it bore marks
of its continued use during recent times in the whitened

bones with which it was strewed. Sometimes we

came across a camel whose skin had not yet dis

appeared, but formed a hollow shell including marrow-

less and porous bones. These desiccated remains

were of most unexpected lightness. My arm is far
from strong, but I easily lifted with one hand and
held aloft the quarter of a camel in this dried-up

state.

    The ribbed rocks looked like the bones of the

earth from which all the flesh, in the shape of soil

and vegetation, had been blown away as sand and

dust. Travellers by the railway that now runs along

that very track can appreciate the effect the desert

had on such as myself at that time. Ali proved an
                 ill
                                    I     long bore mind
excellent and devoted servant.            it
                                                   in
his kindness to me on one bitterly cold night, for

the nights were sometimes extremely chill, in quietly

taking off his own jacket and wrapping round my

shivering body.

Many strangers joined our slowly moving caravan.

One group was such as frequently seen on similar
           ;

              it
                                      is
occasions  consisted of a husband on foot, with

his wife and child mounted on a donkey, like the

often-painted subject of the Flight of the Holy
90 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Family into Egypt. Another personage was a

middle-aged and rather mild-looking individual, who

possessed little more than a sword, and was on his

way to Abyssinia, where some fighting was expected

with neighbouring savage tribes. He proposed to

take part in  and to make his profit from the slaves
he captured.
              He was an old hand at this, and his
;

              it,

                             if
                                        I

                                                                                  a

                                                              It
businesslike account of the process was explicit.

was a moot question with him on each occasion when

a man had been captured, whether to mutilate him at

once or not. If so, the man was apt to die, and

would certainly require costly attention for long

time on the other hand, he recovered, his market

value was greatly increased.  shall have a little

to say later on of some results of the particular slave-

hunting expedition which this worthy person went

to join.

    A caravan yields so many strange experiences

and affords so many occasions of mutual helpfulness

and of friendships, that      easy to understand the
          I
                                 it

                                        is
                                                                 is
importance of the Hadj pilgrimage in uniting

Moslems.      have often wished that something of

the sort could be revived among ourselves, such as

the famous Canterbury Pilgrimage of Chaucer, but

the religious motive for real pilgrimages generally

wanting in Protestant countries. The Congresses of

large itinerant societies like the British Association, in

some few respects may be considered as taking the

place of pilgrimages, but they want the long hours

and days of open-air life, hard exercise, and leisure.

After four days' travel from morning to evening,

we came to a half-way place where  a  brack but

drinkable water was to be had, which replaced the
EGYPT AND THE SOUDAN  91

redolent stuff that our water-skins afforded, and so

on for four more days, when we reached the Nile at
Abu Hamed, having cut across its huge bend. Oh !
the delights to such tourists as we were, of a
temporary exemption from the discomforts of the
desert, and of unlimited rations of water. We
travelled farther by the side of the Nile for another
three days or so, till Berber was reached, when we
paid our dues and said good-bye to the camels. The
Governor of Berber was very civil ; the sherbet he

gave us, though made from limes and not from

lemons, tasted heavenly. He gave me a monkey,

and I bought another, and these two were my

constant companions on camel-back and everywhere

else for many months, until I reached England.

    A boat had here to be hired to take us up to

Khartum. We got one in which the part below

decks was much too low to stand in, and it swarmed

with cockroaches, but it sufficed. The people at
Berber were unruly, and so obstructive that the

boatmen feared to enter with us into their own boat.

However, we showed determination, and pushed off

into the stream, with the result that first one and then

another of the men ran alongside and plunged into

the water and swam to the boat and turned its head

up stream. We then set sail to Khartum.
     In due time we passed Shendy, the scene of the

recent massacre of Abbas Pasha, a younger son of
Mehemet Ali. He was sent to collect imposts and

to overawe the people. At Shendy he and his

soldiers committed all sorts of outrages, and finally
he demanded the daughter of the Deftader (or
 Tax-gatherer) in a form of marriage that was
a92 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE
         a
 equivalent to temporary concubinage, which was a
                                                           ;grave insult to her father, the most important man
 in the place. The Deftader was unable to resist ;
                                                            aso he resigned himself, but gave orders secretly.
                                                                         it,While Abbas Pasha with his suite were at dinner

 and stupid with what they had drunk, the Pasha
 noticed that great bundles of stalks of the native corn
 were being brought in and stacked about the tent.

 He asked and was told that it was forage and litter
 for his Highness's horses. When enough of this straw

 had been brought in, a signal was given to fire
 and every man who attempted to break through was
massacred, including of course Abbas himself. The
 Deftader escaped to Abyssinia something more of
him will be said shortly.

     Finally we reached Khartum, then group of
huts with wagon-roofed hall for the audiences of
the Pasha. We heard of an extraordinary Frank,
believed to be English, who had arrived some weeks
previously. We went to call on him, knocked at the

door, were told to enter, which we did, and came into
the presence of white man nearly naked, as agile as
a panther, with head shorn except for the Moslem
tuft, reeking with butter, and with a leopard skin

thrown over his shoulder. He was recognised at

once by my companions as an undergraduate friend,

Mansfield Parkyns. He had got into a College

scrape, and, leaving Cambridge prematurely, found his
way to Abyssinia, where during years of adventure
he had made friends with the just-mentioned Deftader
of Shendy, and was then acting as an intermediary
and the bringer of substantial present whereby to

obtain, possible, his forgiveness and restoration.
if

                          a
EGYPT AND THE SOUDAN  93

      Of the many travellers whom I have known I

should place Mansfield Parkyns (182 3- 1894) as

 perhaps the most gifted with natural advantages for

that career. He easily held his own under difficulties,

 won hearts by his sympathy, and could touch any

amount of pitch without being himself defiled. He

was consequently an admirable guide in that then

sink of iniquity, Khartum. The saying was that

when a man was such a reprobate that he could not

live in Europe, he went to Constantinople ; if too

bad to be tolerated in Constantinople, he went to
Cairo, and thenceforward under similar compulsion

to Khartum. Half a dozen or so of these trebly

refined villains resided there as slave-dealers ; they

were pallid, haggard, fever-stricken, profane, and

obscene. Mansfield Parkyns complacently tolerated
and mastered them all. The abominations of their

habitual conversation exceeded in a far-away degree
any other I have ever listened to, but it was clever.
When one of them was out of the room, the others

freely related his adventures to us, in which some
anecdote like this was frequent. " So he said, ' Let
us be friends ; come drink a cup of coffee and smoke
a pipe,' then he put poison into the coffee." There

is a gourd whose dried seeds are said to be poisonous

and not very unlike coffee in taste, which is particularly

convenient in such cases. With all their villainy there
was something of interest in their talk, but I had
soon quite enough of it. Still, the experience was
acceptable, for one wants to know the very worst of

everything as well as the very best.
     Some few years later, when trade had thriven

and Khartum had become less barbarous, it was
94 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

deemed expedient to appoint an English Consul,
partly to watch and report on matters connected with
the slave trade. Mr. Petherick, who had been an

ivory dealer in the Soudan, was the first to hold that
post. I often saw him after his return ; he was
extremely cheery, and apparently frank in conver
sation, but very reticent on much that I wanted to

hear. I could not discover what had been the end

of my villainous acquaintances, nor how far the society
of Khartum had become purified by the time he
arrived there.

     We had a few days still to spare, and Parkyns
was glad to join us in a short cruise up the White
Nile. His birthday and mine proved to be the
same, and we had an appropriate jollification. Our
house or hut looked over the swift and broad Blue

Nile on to the waste beyond, where pillars of whirling
sand were constantly forming at that time of year,
February. Many of them careered simultaneously,
but soon dissipated. I have never been caught in
one ; it would no doubt be disagreeable, but I never

saw one that behaved as if it were dangerous.
     It was a strange sight on turning the corner

where the two Niles meet, to change from the Blue
Nile, which sparkled and rushed like a clear Highland
river, into the stagnant and foul, but deep White
Nile. We sailed through mournful scenery up a
width of water visited by great flocks of pelicans.
The river had few marked banks, but lapped upon
grassy shores like a flooded mere. The water was
so stagnant, that when we anchored for the night the
offal thrown overboard by the cook hung about the
boat, and a man had to be sent each morning with
               EGYPT AND THE SOUDAN  95

a pitcher to get less undrinkable water from a

distance. Heads of hippopotami bobbed up at times

all about us in the mid river, but were very shy of

approach. At that date, I should have said there

were crocodiles on nearly every sandbank on the Nile

below the Cataracts, for considerably more than half

of the way thence to Cairo.

Beyond the despondency caused by the air and

the mournful character of the scenery, I have little

to say, except that our journey upwards was concluded

somewhat earlier than intended, through an adventure.

One of my two companions, attended by Parkyns, lay

out at night to shoot a hippopotamus, whose recent

tracks were only too apparent. They returned in

the dark and very early morning in much excitement,

and tried to make us understand that we ought to

wake up and return at once, for some unintelligible

reason. However, to please them, we yielded to

their insistence, roused up the crew and sailed home

wards. It turned out, some hours later, that the real

reason was that my sportsman-companion had shot,

not a hippopotamus, but a cow that was coming down

to the river to drink. There really seemed no

feasible way of making amends for the mistake, and

a certainty of clamour and excessive claims if we

confesseda        So we disappeared from that district,
             it.
much as pestilence would have done.

Our return journey past Khartum was by our boat

to Matemma, opposite to Shendy, where we dis

chargedI       and hired camels to take us a six days'

          it,
journey, think, across the Bayouda Desert to Dongola.

We had become by that time used to camel-riding,

we were well mounted, and travelled even as much as
9<5 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

eighteen hours out of the twenty-four, on more than one
day. The Polar Star and the pointers of the Great
Bear served as the hand of a huge sidereal clock to tell

the weary time.

    At length we reached our destination. It is the

habit of dragomans to tell fibs about their masters,
to enhance their own importance ; anyhow, we were
treated to a review as distinguished strangers. I
then had little experience with horses ; Boulton was
not a much better horseman than myself. Barclay
was, but even he found himself in difficulty when
sitting in a Turkish saddle with short stirrups and
holding a rein armed with so powerful a curb that it
required the lightest of hands to use it properly.
However, we all passed the ordeal, without ludicrous

mishap.
     From Dongola we rode three days across the

desert on the opposite side of the Nile, to cut off a
small bend, and thenceforward by the west side of
the Nile itself, so far as the very broken ground
permitted. Semney was a surprise ; a compact little
temple, high above a spot where the whole Nile at
that time of the year flowed through a channel so
narrow that a cricketer ought to be able to throw a
stone across. I tried, but, being bad at throwing,
failed by a little. On the other hand, at the Sixth
Cataract, between Berber and Shendy, where the river
is broad, I had waded right across it to shoot ducks.

      We had felt no small anxiety about the fate of our
dahabeyah, but there she was at Wady Haifa in spick
and span order ; Bob, that bit of a boy, having risen to
the level of his responsibilities and maintained perfect

discipline. It appeared that the rais, or captain, was
EGYPT AND THE SOUDAN  97

once refractory, but Bob boldly gave the order to the

sailors to flog him, and flogged he was by his own
crew, and ate the bread of humility.

     My excuses for speaking at such length about

countries since so familiarly known are that it will
help to give some idea of how they struck a tourist-

traveller in the time of Mehemet Ali, upwards of sixty

years ago, and because this little excursion formed
one of the principal landmarks of my life. That
chance meeting with Arnaud Bey had important after-

results to me by suggesting scientific objects to my
future wanderings. I often thought of writing to him

in order to bring myself to his remembrance, and to

sincerely thank him, but no sufficiently appropriate
occasion arose, and it is now too late.

     In the winter 1 900-1 901 I visited Egypt again, and,

calling at the Geographical Society there, learnt how
important and honoured a place Arnaud Bey had

occupied in its history. He had died not many
months previously, and I looked at his portrait with
regret and kindly remembrance. Being asked to

communicate a brief memoir to the Society at its
approaching meeting, I selected for my subject a com

parison between Egypt then and fifty years previously.

I took that opportunity to express my heartfelt

gratitude to Arnaud, which posthumous tribute was
all I had the power to pay.

      During this same visit to Egypt I spent one of
 the most interesting weeks of my life at Professor
 Petrie's camp. It was by pure chance that when
 booking my place to Egypt, in the London office, I
 found Professor Petrie on some similar errand. He

 then and there invited me and my niece to join him

                  7
98 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

and Mrs. Petrie at Abydos, where he and his very

capable party were about to excavate. Abydos lies
on the western side of the Nile, roughly one-third of
the way between Thebes and Cairo. We were met

at the railway station by that most capable lady,
then Miss, now Dr. Alice Johnson, mounted on the

one horse that the camp possessed, and who with
kurbash in hand and voluble Arabic extricated us

quickly from a crowd of troublesome natives, and rode
with us a distance of eight miles or so to the camp.
This consisted of a row of mud huts with a space in

front, the whole enclosed with a low mud wall and a

wicket gate. The pottery, etc., that had recently been
dug up was arranged in front of the huts. They had
only mats for doors. One of the huts was the dining-
room, and the others were for members of the party,
the farthest from the entrance being that of Mr. and
Mrs. Petrie. I was prepared for cold nights, but
found them more severe than I expected. Being
little short of eighty years old, I had lost much of
the resisting power of youth, and heaped every scrap
of clothing I could find over my body, with only
partial success. I amused myself on one occasion
by counting the number of layers of these that lay

on my chest, and found it to be seventeen. A single

skin rug capable of excluding the nimble dry air
would have been worth more than half of these flimsy
coverings. Our host and hostess were peculiarly
independent of ordinary comfort, but the consumption
of marmalade at their table was enormous.

     I had no idea before of the strenuous life led by a
great excavator. The mere digging can be delegated,
but the rest seemed to occupy every faculty of our
EGYPT AND THE SOUDAN  99

hosts at full stretch from early morning to late evening
every day. There was drawing, copying, photo
graphing, recording, comparison of specimens, piecing
of them together, discussing them and planning new
work, besides attending to the discipline of many men

not concentrated at one spot, but dispersed among

different diggings.

     An amusing scene occurred at a stated hour every

morning, when the fellahs who had found any curios

and wanted to sell them were seated in a long row
at a fixed distance from the camp. They brought
in rotation what they had to sell. Professor Petrie

knew by long experience exactly how much the
various articles would fetch if taken to the dealers in

the large towns, and offered that amount for what he

cared to buy. The Arabs quite understood the

system, namely, that by accepting what was offered

they would get just as much as if they took a long

journey in hopes of a better bargain, so the traffic

was quick. The objects were bought out of funds

variously provided, but the Egyptian Government
reserved some rights of purchase in the end.

     The conversation at meal-time was usually most
interesting. Much was going on, and the originality
and fertility of the ideas of Professor Petrie and the
ingenuity of his explanations were marvellous. The
actual digging was of course monotonous and
laborious, but the faculties of those of the party who

superintended each locality were kept on the alert.

They had to record and to make maps as well as to

keep the labourers to their work, and to supervise

them narrowly. At nightfall the men, who had mostly

worked for Professor Petrie during previous years,

80l473/\
IOO MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

returned to their own huts, a little way behind one
corner of the camp, and there they indulged about
once a week in strange performances, not unlike those

of dancing and howling dervishes. Their nature
seemed to require occasional doses of these ebul

litions.

     We were fortunate at being present at the

impressive feast of the full moon, which included

solemn chants. It was dignified in every respect,

and appeared to have a deeper religious significance
than might have been expected possible with these
men.
CHAPTER VII

                               SYRIA

Beyrout -- Fever -- Death  of  dragoman at Damascus  --Jaffa  --  Descent
                           of  Jordan -- Home

OUR company parted at Alexandria. Barclay
           returned home, I went to Syria, and Boulton

desired to go farther East, to study Arabic and
Oriental modes of thought and expression. Our

paths crossed only once in Syria. Owing to misad
ventures, and to my great regret, I never saw him
after. He made his way to the British forces, then
engaged in the siege of Mooltan, and was the guest
of their commander, General Whish. He stationed

himself, against advice, in a loopholed tower to
witness the progress of the fight, a matchlock ball
penetrated his eye and killed him on the spot. I
heard the story many years afterwards from General
Whish himself.

     I sailed from Alexandria to Beyrout with my
dragoman Ali and my two pet monkeys. We were
then put into quarantine, where Ali found a party of

negress girls who had been captured on the borders
of Abyssinia during the very fighting for which my

acquaintance in the caravan was bound. They had
been taken to Beyrout via the Red Sea. The girls
were delighted to talk to us of places known to them

                                                                                    XOI
102 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

as well as to ourselves. They seemed as merry as

possible at the prospect of being sold and of soon
finding, each of them, a master and a home.

    A journey so far as Khartum was then thought

something of a feat, even in Syria, and Ali, as I am

convinced, greatly fibbed about my social importance.

It must have been on that account that the Governor

of the Quarantine, or whatever his title may have

been, relaxed his restrictions on my behalf so greatly as
to call down severe newspaper criticism on his acts of

favouritism. In fact, we made a champagne picnic

together in two boats, under the sole condition of the

party in the one not touching any one in the other.

For a similar reason, as I suppose, I was invited and

entertained in a most stately way at the palace of a

Druse chief, situated among the hills.
     I bought travelling gear at Beyrout, and went

inland to buy a pair of horses for myself and Ali,

because it was not easy to hire good riding-horses,

though baggage-horses could always be had. I set

myself up in style, with tent and extra walls, a canteen,

and handsome coffee and pipe apparatus. On arrival
at the place where the horses were to be bought, I

cwaamtepre--d aonmgorosut ndinsiannteitrasreyc-tloeodkwinigth  ditches  of stagnant
                                                                place.     I caught

there a sharp intermittent fever which plagued me

for years, and, though often kept in abeyance for a

long time together, has occasionally recurred most

unexpectedly. It is only a few weeks now since I

had an attack of  returned with my horses to
                  it.

                       I

                           I
Beyrout, but was too unwell to make much use of

them.

After some wanderings, settled in Damascus,
SYRIA                                       103

at first in the house of a medical man who enabled

me to witness some gorgeous Jewish domestic cere
monies. I also took elementary lessons in Hebrew

at his house, for which the little I knew of Arabic

made an excellent preparation. A sad grief befell me

there in the death of my faithful dragoman, Ali,
through violent dysentery. All the last duties to the

Moslem dead, the washings, the shrouding, and the

wailings, took place in the courtyard. My own

presence, as a Christian, at the funeral would have

been seriously resented by the Moslems, though I

was able to arrange about his tombstone.    The

sculptors here adopt a very simple process for their

illiterate workmen. A flat face is given to the stone,

on which the inscription is painted in black. Then

all that is not painted is chipped away. The populace

at Damascus was then in a fanatical humour and

Christians had to be careful. There had been a

frightful persecution of Jews a little previously, and
there were others of Christians subsequently.

    Ali had some trifling personal property, and

wages were due to him. I sent these to his wife in

Cairo, who was the only relative I ever heard him

mention, together with a little present for herself,

and thought my duty fulfilled and that all was

finished. On the contrary, I had inadvertently
roused a hornet's nest of greedy claimants. An

official Arabic letter was sent to me demanding

various payments to numerous relatives, together

with a threat of legal proceedings if not attended to.

My banker, to whom I referred  advised me to
I
                              it,
                                         I
get out of the reach of the law as soon as con

veniently could, or might find myself fleeced, and
io4 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

perhaps entangled interminably. Fortunately, this
circumstance occurred about the time when I should

have been returning to England on my own account,
so I "re-levanted," if it may be so expressed.
Defaulters ordinarily "levant," or run from Europe
to the Levant ; I ran in the opposite direction.

    At Damascus in the hot time of the year there

was more than one delicious retreat in public coffee-
places with gardens, through which one of the in
numerable runnels of clear river water was conducted.

I also took an interesting ride through the outskirts
of the town, where a vast amount of dried apricot is
prepared. It looks like greasy brown paper, is
wrapped in rolls, and is largely consumed. Each
orchard has a smoothed place like a small threshing-

floor, as well as a big cauldron over an oven into

which the apricots are put. The resulting slush is

ladled out and spread over the floor ; when it is

sufficiently hardened, it is rolled off it as if it were

a sheet of oilcloth. The cost of preparation is so
small and the results so good that this manufacture

might be found remunerative in other countries
where apricots grow in abundance.

     I spent some happy days at Aden on the
Lebanon, a little below the famous cedars. The
Sheikh was only too glad to entertain me, because
one of the miserable tribal fights was expected, and
he was glad of the presence of armed persons in his
house, to protect it. Nothing, however, happened,
beyond a few harmless shots. I afterwards revelled
in the glorious beauty of the gorges leading down

to the Mediterranean, and rank the view down one

of them as the very finest my eyes have ever rested
SYRIA  105

on. Mr. J. G. Frazer, in his Adonis, /sis, and Osiris,

has collected similar expressions from many other
travellers.

     I returned to Beyrout, where, finding one of my
horses killed by a fall over a cliff, and being unfit to
enjoy or even to endure more riding, I sold the
other, and found my way to Jaffa on board an empty
collier. The part of its deck that I wanted was
cleaned, and the voyage was brief and not un

pleasant.

     The soil about Jaffa is perfectly dry and wonder
fully fertile, but only on the strict condition of its
being amply supplied with water. Its environs were

traversed by dusty roads between dull mud walls,
on whose other side the richly watered gardens lay ;

so pedestrians, as might be expected, were thirsty
and covetous. I saw a sort of pump handle with a
spout on the side of the road, and an inscription

above bearing some such encouraging text as

" Drink ! Here is water." Accordingly we pumped,

and a little water did certainly come ; but however
hard we pumped there issued no more than a scanty

streamlet out of the spout. We heard, all the same,
a sound of abundance of water that never reached

us, the cause of which was soon discovered to be an

ingeniously arranged division, by means of which
the pumper got only a small fraction of the water

he raised, and the garden got all the rest. It was an

excellent example of the higher forms of commercial
enterprise. They enrich all round, but the merchant
to whose initiative they are due gets by far the

biggest share.
      I was too unwell for a long day's ride on horse
io6 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

back, and hired a camel, which was not a usual

conveyance, to take me from Jaffa to Jerusalem.
The exaltation I felt at the first sight of the walls

was far too high to last long. It was broken in the

night by the miaulings of cats, the flat roofs of the

houses forming an almost unlimited playground for

those unscriptural and half-diabolical creatures.

     In those days the course of the Jordan had
been untravelled, as I was assured, since the memory

of man, and the Dead Sea had never been navigated,

with one solitary and most painful exception a year

or two previously. Captain Costigan, whose accom

plished married sister, Mrs. Bradshaw, I counted

among my Leamington friends, had transported a

boat to the Dead Sea. His man, or men, played

him false, emptying the water keg in order that

they might sooner get at the wine. He started

with, I think, only a single man, the wind was

unfavourable to return, he had to toil at the oar

under the blazing sun, caught sunstroke and died.
     The peace among the tribes who occupied the

valley of the Jordan, which had been favourable to him,

still continued, and I determined on an expedition

down having then temporarily thrown off the ague.
It

      a
           it,
    seemed possible that the Jordan  might   be  descended
on small raft of inflated water      skins,  or   " kelligs,"

so procured half a dozen of them, with the necessary
I

lashings and other gear, and started with a few horse

men for Tiberias.  put the raft together just below
                   I

                            It
the small bridge through which the Jordan runs out
of the lake, and my escort travelled by the side of the
river to render assistance when needed, and to form

camp from time to time.         was rather a hare-brained
SYRIA                                               107

attempt, though amusing to plan. The river was very

small and shallow, but carried the light raft well ; how

ever, it was soon whirled under overhanging trees, and

I was nearly combed off it. Then matters grew worse,
and decidedly dangerous. The horsemen rode by the
side, and were highly amused at my difficulties. At
length I became convinced that it would be madness
to persevere, so I left the raft, dressed myself,

mounted my led horse, and we rode on down the

valley. It is all so perfectly known and mapped now

that it would be absurd to recount the little that I

could tell, but I became more and more impressed

with the weirdness of the great fissure in the earth's

crust through which the Jordan flows. Even the
Lake of Tiberias is 300 feet below the level of the
sea, and the Dead Sea is about 1000 feet deeper still,

and its climate very sultry in consequence.

     My first camping-place was among the tents of
the Emir Rourbah. It was an important encamp

ment of Bedouins, whose dress I had been instructed

to wear, and on no account to appear in the hated

Turkish fez. When I arrived, there were watchers

on every point of vantage. I was kindly received
and shown much of their everyday life. The Emir

had a quantity of chain armour, such as was in

common use among the chiefs in the Soudan. I was

surprised to find how effectual it was in spreading

over a large surface the sensation of what otherwise

would have been a painfully sharp blow. Matters

progressed very pleasantly until the thoughtless

omission of a Moslem ceremony soured my welcome.
It may sound trifling, but it was effective all the same.

I had shot a desert partridge, but not killed  it,  so,
Iio8 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE
      ill
taking it up, I knocked its head, English fashion,
                  Iagainst the stock of my gun. I ought to have cut
                             Iits throat with my knife, while repeating the Moslem
formula. I caught sight of a look of abhorrence
on the face of my companions, and thereupon evidently
ceased to be considered as one of themselves, but as
a hateful and hypocritical Christian ; so I was glad
to be allowed soon to depart.

     After a brief stay about Jericho, where I tasted

and foolishly bathed in the nasty, sticky, dense water
of the bituminous Dead Sea, which stuck in my hair
for the day, I returned to Jerusalem with the view

of transporting a boat. But finding that I was

wanted at home on some legal business, that it was
desirable to be out of the way of the claimants to the

little property of poor Ali, my late dragoman, and

feeling and used-up, set sail with my two monkeys
homewards.

         was put in quarantine in the Lazarette of
Marseilles for, think, ten days. Its superior officer
was a military martinet. One of my monkeys got
loose and ran all about the Lazarette, where, according
to rule, he ought to have put every article that he
touched into at least the same quarantine as himself,
and there were bales of goods in store. The officer
was transported with rage, and actually ran after the
nimble monkey with drawn sword, to the intense
amusement of the onlookers and of the monkey.

   quietly captured him at last. The officer vented

his feelings in appropriate language, but as he could
do no more, the breach of quarantine regulations was
overlooked, and so the matter ended.

     When reached London, on chilly November
I
               I

                                                              a
             SYRIA                                 109

day, I failed to find a comfortable night's lodging

for my pets, but an old friend who was living
in apartments kindly undertook their charge. He

handed them with many instructions to his landlady,
                                "Drat the           "
who thought  and perhaps said,             beasts
                                                   !

and shut them up in the cold scullery, where they

were found the next morning dead in one another's

arms.
CHAPTER VIII

HUNTING AND SHOOTING

Leamington -- Moors -- Orkney and Shetland -- Balloon -- Telotype

I RETURNED to my mother and sister, who then
       occupied Claverdon, much in need of a little rest.

I was also conscious that with all my varied ex
periences I was ignorant of the very A B C of the

life of an English country gentleman, such as most

of the friends of my family had been familiar with
from childhood. I was totally unused to hunting,
and I had no proper experience of shooting. This

deficiency was remedied during the next three or four

years. Under the advice of my eldest brother, I

bought a hunter and a hack, and began to hunt at

the rate of about three days per fortnight in Warwick

shire, at neighbouring meets.

The next year I established myself at Leamington,

jaobbsmedallho"rsHesu,nat ndCluhubn,"tedsupmpeotsheoddictaolly.be  There was
                                                                    somewhat

select, to which I belonged, and where I dined when
not otherwise engaged. The hunting men most to

the fore in Leamington in those days included some

who had considerable gifts, each in their respective

ways. Foremost among them was Jack Mytton, son
of the more famous Jack Mytton (1796- 1834) who

was notorious for his daring feats and other ex
HUNTING AND SHOOTING  m

travagances, who wasted a large fortune and died

unhappily. His life has been published ; a brief
account of it may be read in the Dictionary of
National Biography. The son's career seemed
moulded on that of his father, and he too wasted

a fortune that had somehow accrued to him, and died

prematurely. There was no question as to his ability

and power over others.

    A more or less unfortunate fate befell most of

my other companions at the Hunt Club. Many of

the small party who habitually dined there were social
favourites, and two at least of them were of more than

average social rank. Five of these men contrived to
ruin themselves by betting and gambling, and to end
unhappily. For all that, they were bright companions
in the heyday of their fortunes. They lived in good
style and as a rule not very prodigally, though all
had fits of recklessness. One of the most valuable

qualities in a man of moderately independent means
who has to live in a society of this kind is a careless
ness to the attraction of gambling.

    A Leamington friend, Fazakerley, asked me to

the H ighlands to shoot. H is moor was called Culrain ;

it was about fifteen miles long by three broad, and

the small house on it was three miles from Bonar

Bridge. I bought a beautiful Irish setter which a
friend chose for me, and we shot in the leisurely

fashion of those days, when driving game was never
practised. I slept in a neighbouring bothy, for the
house was small, and I quickly obtained some know

ledge of English sport on the moors. At the end of

the season, the weather being still fine, I made my
way to John O 'Groat's House, opposite the Orkneys,
112 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

whence, after being wind-bound for a while, I sailed

in the post boat, which was then the only means of

conveying letters from island to island, and so reached
the so-called " Mainland," and settled at Kirkwall.

    The next year I started before the grouse season

began, and spent a most interesting summer among

the Shetlands, using rowboats as the usual means of

conveyance, and occupying myself with seal-shooting

and bird-nesting. I could write much about all this,

and on the weird experiences of a fisher society living

in a treeless land, with whale-jaws for posts, and with

no knife in their pockets larger than a penknife,

having only tobacco and string to cut with it. Their

social hierarchy was such, that a man who had been

to  Hudson's Bay   had  taken, to speak  in the language
of  a University,  a"   Poll Degree."    Those who had

visited Baffin Bay were considered to have gained
" Honours."

    A shoal of whales (the cawing whale, averaging

perhaps 20 feet in length) came ashore whilst I was

in Shetland, and I hurriedly rode several miles to be

in time to see them. Nearly one hundred were lying

dead on the beach, but they looked small as they were

scattered over the shore of the bay. The excitement

of driving in the shoals is said to be an event not easily

forgotten. It was all over by the time I arrived.
     I would not shoot a seal now, but youths are

murderous by instinct, and so was I. There was

much of interest in the conditions under which they

were shot. The early rise in the long summer day,

the row to the leeward side of a likely holm, or small

island ; creeping up to a good vantage point and

waiting there until the head of a seal is seen to bob
HUNTING AND SHOOTING  113

up ; then stalking the animal by running from cover
to cover whenever he sinks out of sight. Then, on

reaching the beach, going cautiously between the big
boulders to a good shooting-place and poking the rifle
over one of the stones, shielding it and self from sight
as carefully as possible. There one has to wait,

perhaps with the tide coming in over one's legs, until
in the course of his antics the seal's head rises within

sure shooting distance ; then a careful aim, and a
bang. The boatmen hearing the sound, come rowing
as hard as they can round the corner, lest the seal

should sink and be lost. He ought to be shot dead,
or not touched at all. The oozing blubber of the

animal makes a circular calm round the spot where

he is shot, with the bloodstain in the middle. A

boat-hook secures the seal even if he should have
sunk four or five feet. His market value is a few

shillings ; the boatmen get him as their perquisite.

     I heard a story about the domesticity of the seal,

as having recurred, with variations in detail, at more

than one place. A young seal was caught and

became quite at home with the fisherman, coming to
his house for company, for warmth in the winter-time,

and for food. It was petted until its size made it too

big for a pet and troublesome to the children. Then

the fisherman, sad at heart, took it with him in his

boat, far away to the fishing-ground, and threw it

overboard. Some days later, when the family were
at supper, rather dismal at the loss of their old friend,
they heard the familiar sound of scuffling and scratch
ing, and on opening the door, in flopped the seal.

     I used to watch the breeding-places of the sea
birds, of which there were multitudes, of perhaps twenty

              8
114 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

different kinds. The stormy petrels make their nests

deep in beaches of shingle. An intelligent man

initiated me into the way of taking them. We crept as

silently as might be to where the twitterings could be

heard, and, having carefully located the spot, tossed

away the shingle as fast as we could, and usually found

the bird on its nest. Its oily smell is very strong and
rank. The popular belief is that if you cram a wick

between the beak and down the gullet of a dried-up

petrel and light the bird will burn like a lamp.
                 It
The hardships of what was called deep-sea fishing
                     it,
were great.             was conducted in open whale-boats

with six rowers, who were generally thirty-six hours

absent, and sometimes longer. In bad weather they

had to keep to their oars, and could get little or no

sleep all the time.       I  was told that on returning they

went half stupid to bed, and, partly awakening to

feed from time to time, slept for full twenty-four hours

on end.

I  could tell many tales of what heard and saw,
                                (I I
                                                 if

                                                        It
such as that at one lighthouse  think in North

Ronaldshay) the keeper, wishing to alleviate the

solitude of his life, cast about for a suitable pet.

That which he selected did credit to his genius.

was a toad in a bottle, requiring no care, little any

food, easily placed on any shelf, and always showing

its bright eye.

When finally left Shetland, which was after the
         I

               I
grouse season, took as a present to my brother for

the large pool at Edstone, a crate full of many

different kinds of sea birds, which was assured
                                I

would live in fresh water and pick up snails in the

garden, as tamed gulls do. The railway people put
HUNTING AND SHOOTING  115

the crate in a very exposed truck on a chill autumn
night, which killed three-quarters of them at least.

The remainder throve at Edstone for a while, the

latest survivor being an oyster-catcher, who came to
his end thus. It had been freezing hard in the night,
followed by soft snow, and then re-freezing. Next
morning they found the tracks of a fox on the snow-

covered ice, going to a place where the yellow legs
and nothing else of the bird remained frozen in.
The oyster-catcher's legs had been entrapped by the

frost, and his body had been snapped up by the fox.
     During the many weeks and months that I spent

in London between 1846 and 1850, which is the time
to which this chapter refers, I took walks with
friends, and sometimes rides with Harry Hallam, once

on a most pleasant riding tour with him in South
Wales, and I went to meets of the Queen's Stag
Hounds.

     Among many other things, I was eager to know
the sensations of ballooning ; I venture to give my
own impression of it. There were occasional nightly
ascents from the then existing Cremorne Gardens,

and foolishly thinking that I could sneak in under
cover of darkness, I engaged a seat. The evening

arrived, and I found it was advertised as a Gala

Festival, and I was anything but secluded from

observation. A number of fireworks were attached

to the car, and after an oration from the aeronaut, up

we went. It was very curious to observe the up

turned faces of the crowd below, which seemed to

recede, for I had no sensation of being myself in move
ment. The fireworks went off, and doubtless made

an effective display, and then all seemed singularly
n6 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

still. I was surprised at feeling no giddiness, but the

car is so deep and the swelling of the balloon so

voluminous that there is always much to steady the

eye. The chief cause of giddiness when standing on

a small isolated platform seems to lie in the absence
of anything for the eye to " hold on by," meaning

by this, anything that shows a sensible change of

perspective, however slightly the body may move.

Consciousness of altering one's position is due to two

things, the change in perspective, and the sensations
arising in the well-known " semicircular canals " of the

ear. When the latter sensation is present unaccom

panied by the former, mental distress results.

The balloon was open below, and owing perhaps

to some optical illusion, it seemed to be filled with a

singularly pure and beautiful medium. The quietness
and sense of repose were the chief feelings that I

experienced ; next the clearness with which some

noises, such as the barkings of dogs, reached us when

we were still at a considerable height. Besides

myself, there were only the aeronaut and his boy ;

the former alternately boisterous and maudlin. He

told me that his wife frequently dreamed that he

would come to an ill end, and so he did, breaking his

thigh  not long  after in a balloon  descent and dying
from   it. The   " bump-bag " and    the grapnel were

new to me. The bump-bag is useful in permitting a

quick descent to be made in order to catch a particu

lar field in the line of drift. More gas is let out than

is necessary for a normal descent, then when the car

is still some feet above the ground the bump- bag rests

on its weight removed, and the lightened balloon
it,
                       is

descends slowly through those remaining few feet.
HUNTING AND SHOOTING  117

     We drifted for an hour or more in the quiet dim

night, learning our course by watching what could be
seen of the country below, for of course there is

nothing in the balloon itself to tell whether it is

moving backwards, forwards, or sideways. It drifts

with the air, so relatively to the air it is perfectly still.
When it was time to descend, the valve was opened
and bits of torn-up paper thrown out, which dashed
upwards, as it were. In other words, we dashed

downwards through them. At length we approached

what the aeronaut thought would be a suitable field to
descend upon, and let go the grapnel, which is a light

but strong steel anchor with four pointed arms. It failed

to catch hold, and we went drifting on towards a large
decorous family mansion, with hothouses by the side

and a lawn in front ; sheep were placidly lying in the
field. The horrid grapnel bobbed and scratched the

ground among the sheep, fortunately without hooking
one, and caught in the fence round the lawn. Then
the valve was opened wide, letting out volumes of
stinking gas ; the rooks in a neighbouring rookery
which we had brushed on our way, were vociferous,

the dogs everywhere about barked furiously, and the
natives in the neighbouring village were awakened

and ran to the scene.

     In the midst of the hubbub the hall door opened
wide and let out a glare of light, in which a portly

butler with two man-servants in livery appeared to be

framed, looking horrified, as well they might be, by
the sudden disorderly invasion of visitants from the
sky. After some delay, we were invited to enter, and
found the unhappy owner of the mansion in his dining-
room by his uncleared late dessert, with decanters of
Il8 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

wine, utterly perplexed as to the character of the
welcome he ought to offer. The aeronaut gulped

the wine offered to him, declaring with much rigmarole

that it was a scientific ascent.    cowered, and was
                        (!)       II I
utterly ashamed. After a miserable hour's delay, and
                           I
thanks chiefly to the exertions of the boy, a postchaise

was procured, the balloon was packed into its own car

together with all its gear, and the car was hoisted on

the roof of the chaise. The boy insinuated himself

somewhere, and the aeronaut and reached London

in the small hours of the morning.      was so afraid of

meeting in society the ill-used master of the mansion

that determinedly abstained from finding out who

he was. The moral that drew from the trip that
   I                                       is,
      it I I                                       is
the ascent and travel in calm weather in a balloon

most delightful the return to earth most disagreeable,
                    ;
and dangerous in even a slight wind.
                     I
   Among the many trifling events that occurred

about that time, may mention a yachting fiasco.     I

had a fancy to see Iceland, and, having had a little

yachting experience on a brief third visit to Shetland,

whither and a companion sailed in an old Revenue

cutter, hired forget at what port, and being assured
              a
that with similar vessel the trip might safely be
                aI
made, went to Ryde to hire one. The owner of

a cutter that seemed suitable made no difficulty, so

I  hired for month. On arriving on board, in order

to test the capabilities of the vessel and its crew, told;
the captain to set sail to Hastings. He was suave, but
                                            it I
pointed out the impossibility with the then wind and

tide of getting there.  I  did not clearly understand

his arguments, but answered, " Never mind         will

suit me equally well to go in the opposite direction
HUNTING AND SHOOTING  119

to Penzance." The captain was still suave, but

even more obstructive than before ; at length it turned
out that he had no idea of sailing beyond the Solent
and its neighbourhood. Being resourceful, I accord
ingly went to Lymington, and used the yacht as an
hotel, getting a couple of days' hunting in the New
Forest, and compromising about the hire of the yacht.

    It will be thought from what appears in this

chapter that I was leading a very idle life, but it was
not so. I read a good deal all the time, and digested

what I read by much thinking about it. It has

always been my unwholesome way of work to brood

much at irregular times.

     The one definite scientific piece of work in these

years that is worth mentioning refers to the then
newly introduced electric telegraph. I had always a

liking for electricity, and had some cells in a drawer
of my study table with wires leading from them

through the woodwork, to which apparatus could be

attached. All this would be thought very elementary

now, but some new things have to be done by such
means when a science is in its infancy. I wished to

print telegraphic messages and to govern heavy

machinery by an extremely feeble force.
     The method adopted may be explained thus.

Suppose a telegraphic needle of the most delicate
construction conceivable, having the three possible
movements of right, neutral, left, to be momentarily
lifted off its support by an arm that squeezes it against
a little cushion above. However delicate the needle

may be, its projecting ends will be stiff enough to

push another freely suspended (but non-magnetic)
needle of a much stronger and heavier build, in the
120 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

same direction as itself. This process may be re
peated on a third needle of considerably larger size
and greater strength ; and if desired, on a fourth.
The force required to keep all this going is inde

pendent of that which moves the first needle, and is
applied by a reciprocating beam worked by ordinary

power. The synchronising of the two stations is a

simple matter, no great precision being wanted in
order that the electric impulses should be delivered
to the first needle at the right times. Without going
further into this long bygone matter, I may say that

I printed what I had to tell in a pamphlet entitled
the Telotype (No. i in the text of my Memoirs in
the Appendix). The pamphlet was post-dated, after
the manner of some publishers, as being in June 1850.
It was really printed in 1849 ; I had left England for
my travels on April 5, 1850. The pamphlet had
long since gone into the limbo of the forgotten, so
it was a surprise to me, not many years ago, to meet
one of the most prominent electricians of the day, who

told me that he had seen and procured it for the
library of the Electrical Society. Moreover, he spoke
appreciatively of my youthful attempt. Requiescat in
pace. There was more in the pamphlet than is

described above.
                      CHAPTER IX

                          SOUTH-WEST AFRICA

Royal Geographical Society -- Ch. J. Andersson-- Cape Town --Walfish
       Bay -- Reach Damara Land-- Hans -- Negotiations with Namaqua
      chiefs -- Revs. Rath and Hahn-- Wagons brought up

     TRAVELLERS of the present generation need

  i- some effort of imagination to put themselves
into the mental positions of those who were living in
1849. Blank spaces in the map of the world were
then both large and numerous, and the positions of

many towns, rivers, and notable districts were un

trustworthy. The whole interior of South Africa and
much of that of North Africa were quite unknown to
civilised man. Similarly as regards that of the great
continent of Australia. The unknown geography of
the North Polar regions preserved some of the earlier
glamour attached to the possibility of finding a navi
gable North-West passage from England to China,
which inspection of the globe shows to be far shorter
than that round the Cape. The South Polar regions
had only been touched here and there. The geography
of Central Asia was in great confusion, the true
position of many places familiar in ancient history

being most uncertain, while vast areas remained
wholly unexplored, in the common sense of that

word. It was a time when the ideas of persons
122 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

interested in geography were in a justifiable state
of ferment.

     My own inclinations were to travel in South Africa,

which had a potent attraction for those who wished to
combine the joy of exploration with that of encounter

ing big game. The book of Harris, describing the
enormous herds of diverse animals that he found on
the grassy plains of South Africa, had directed many

sportsmen thither who abundantly confirmed his

account. Gordon Cumming had just returned to
England. Oswell, then in company with Livingstone,
and with another companion, Murray, had recently
made a joint expedition, in which the desert country
which hitherto limited the range of travel to the
northward had been traversed, and Lake Ngami
discovered. Consequently the well-watered districts

beyond this desert could now be reached by wagon
from the Cape. I felt keenly desirous of taking
advantage of this new opening, and inquired much of
those who had recently returned from South Africa
concerning the conditions and requirements of travel
there. But I wanted to have some worthy object as
a goal and to do more than amuse myself.

     It happened at this critical moment of my life that
I was walking with my cousin, Captain Douglas Galton,
R.E., then one of the most rising officers of the
Engineers, and subsequently Sir Douglas Galton,
K.C.B., of whom I have already spoken. He suggested

my putting myself in communication with the Royal
Geographical Society, where I could learn precisely

whereabouts exploration was especially desirable, and
where I should be sure to receive influential support.

He offered introductions to some of its leading
              SOUTH-WEST AFRICA          123

members, which I gladly accepted, and this determined

my line of life for many years to come.

     The immediate helpfulness to a traveller of such a

Society is very great. It has the further advantage

of pledging him to undertake work that is authorita

tively judged to be valuable. My vague plans were

now carefully discussed, made more definite, and

approved, and I obtained introductions to many per
sons useful to me in their respective ways. I was

introduced to the then Colonial Secretary, Lord Grey,

who gave instructions in my favour to the Governor

of the Cape.

My outfit was procured, and other preparations

were far advanced, when my kind friend, Sir Hyde

Parker, whose acquaintance I first made when shooting

at Culrain, strongly urged me to engage a companion.

He told me that a young Swede whose history he

knew intimately was then in England, and that I

could not do better than come to terms with him.

This was Charles J. Andersson, who became my

travelling-friend and second in command. He spoke

English fluently, through having been brought up by

Charles Lloyd, a well-known Scandinavian sportsman

and writer, but an Englishman of Quaker extraction.
I may mention here that I made Mr. Lloyd's ac

quaintance some years later, when his face had been

frightfully scarred with wounds made by a bear. He

told me that an old wounded she-bear had turned

upon him, and actually got his head between her jaws

to crack      but her rounded teeth failed to find at
          it,
                                                                                            a
once a sufficiently sharp hold and only tore the flesh.

His companion shot the animal in time.

Andersson was accustomed to the rough life of
124 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

sportsman, and had been sent to England to push his
way to fortune as he best could. His capital where

with to begin consisted of a crate of live capercailzie,

two bear cubs, and the skin of one of their parents.

He was then so naive that, seeing an auctioneer's

placard about a forthcoming sale of farm stock, in
which was included " 20,000 Swedes,"
that in the language of farmers "     he, not  k"nomweianngt
                                      Swedes
" turnips," confessed afterwards to a thrill of terror

lest they should be his compatriots, and lest he him

self might be pounced upon and sold as a slave

together with them.

I was most fortunate in securing Andersson, be

cause a second in command proved at times to be a

necessity, and he always did his part admirably. He

was remarkably strong and agile. When on board

our full-rigged sailing-ship he began for amusement

to climb the rigging. A sailor followed him, as is

the wont of sailors, with a piece of twine to lash his

feet as soon as he had gone as high as he dared, and

to keep him bound there until he had consented to
" pay his footing." Andersson perceived the game,

and completely vanquished the sailor by descending

from the maintop to the deck, hand over hand down

the mainstay, which was too daring a feat for the

sailor to emulate. Consequently Andersson became

highly respected by all the crew.

One of the effects of association with the leading

members of the Royal Geographical Society was to

show me that the world of English interests was very

much wider and more earnest than that of the coteries

among which I had chiefly lived, and that many men

were thoroughly able to understand and criticise
SOUTH-WEST AFRICA    125

my proposed course justly, whose good opinion if

I succeeded would be of far more value to me

than the approbation of a multitude of less well-

informed persons, however numerous or laudatory they

might be.

     I left England on April 5, 1850. My voyage
deserves a few words of description, because it was

made under conditions that are now obsolete, which

had some advantages to counterbalance their many

disadvantages. The ship was called the Dalhousie,

an old teak- built East Indiaman, quite incapable of

beating against a head wind, and occupying nearly

eighty days in reaching Cape Town. It was chiefly

used on this journey to carry emigrants at cheap rates

with rough accommodation, but a few cabin passengers

were taken besides, who had the use of the high poop
to themselves. In a long voyage like that of ours,

the elements count for much, and the manipulation

of the ship is of continual interest. The charm of

the Northern Trades, of the calms and sudden squalls
of the Equatorial Belt, and of the crisp, strong
Southern Trades cannot possibly be experienced

in an equal degree by those on board a fast steamer,
that rushes through all of them at an equal speed and

holds its course almost regardless of wind and weather.

I was glad, too, of the abundant opportunities of

familiarising myself with the sextant, by which I mean

a much closer acquaintance with its manipulation and

adjustments than nautical persons are usually contented

with or require. I had left England without any

practical instruction either in obtaining latitudes and

longitudes, or in surveying, for I failed to find anybody

who would give  it,  consistently with the limited
126 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

time then at my disposal. The excellent facilities
now afforded by the Royal Geographical Society for
the instruction of intending travellers did not then

exist ; indeed, I had a large part in their introduction

many years later. I was, however, familiar with the

requisite book-work, and relied on what I could pick up
on board ship and elsewhere to supplement it. Let
me anticipate that I took very kindly indeed to instru
mental work, and learnt in time to get more out of
my sextants, etc., than most persons. Land work
admits of far greater exactitude with that instrument
than sea work, where the true position of the horizon
is never known, owing to uncertainties of refraction,

and is not seen at all at night. The sun, which is
the principal object of observation at sea, is little used
on land, where the altitudes of stars are obtainable with

great accuracy from their reflections in a small trough
of mercury. Also the hand can be so rested that
the images of the star and of its reflection shall be
quite steady when seen through the telescope.
Moreover, the two images, whether of the star and
its reflection, or of the star and the moon, can be toned
to an exactly equal degree of brightness. The sextant
is a very powerful instrument for its size, in the hands
of those who have patience and skill to get the most
out of it.

     I was received very kindly at the Cape by the
Governor, Sir Harry Smith, and by his lady, whose
name is perpetuated in that of the well-known town
" Ladysmith," called after her. But the news from
the frontier recently received at Cape Town scattered
my plans like a bombshell. The Boers, who had
been very unruly, had affirmed their intention of
SOUTH-WEST AFRICA  127

 keeping the newly discovered lands about Lake
 Ngami to themselves and of refusing passage through
their territory to every Englishman. Sir Harry
 Smith said it would be useless for me to attempt to
go as I had proposed. After a tedious journey of
 more than two months by ox wagon, I should meet
 with Boers who would politely but firmly tell me

that I must go no farther. If I attempted to force

a way, they would shoot me, and he would be

powerless to prevent them.
      I had made many friends in Cape Town, and

numerous suggestions were offered as to other ways

of reaching the district of Lake Ngami. The one

I adopted had many arguments in its favour. A

cattle-dealer then in Cape Town had made occasional
ventures to Walfish Bay. The coast around it was

desert, but the Namaqua Hottentots drove cattle

there for sale, which would otherwise have been

sent overland to the Cape by what is practically a

four months' journey. The country between Walfish

Bay and the Namaquas could be traversed by wagons.
There were mission stations in Namaqualand, whose
headquarters were in Cape Town. Nay more, a

new missionary was waiting for an opportunity to

go there, and if I took him with the other things
now waiting to be sent, I should be helpful to the

missionaries, and they would doubtless be all the
more inclined to help me. Again, to the north of
the yellow Namaquas were the black Damaras, the
interior of whose land was as yet quite unknown,

though two or three mission stations had been

established along its southern border.
      Here, then, was a land ready to be explored, by
128 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

which a new way through grassy country might be
found leading through Walfish Bay to the interior,
and at the same time south of the territory claimed

and practically barred by the Portuguese. Sir Harry
Smith desired to use every opportunity of disavowing

the complicity of the Cape Government with the
attacks of the Boers on the natives, and he requested

me to use such occasions as I might have, of doing
so. He caused a document to be drawn up to express

this and to serve as my credentials. It was written

in English, Dutch, and Portuguese, with a huge seal

appended to protected by a tin case.I it,
     The story of my journey has been so fully told

in print that shall go but little into the details of

here. Moreover, the country has of late been so
                               it
                                           I

                                                           it 1
traded through and fought over, and in large part

occupied by the Germans, that  has, presume,

become mapped with considerable exactness.

I         will be seen by my sketch map that the country
      It
travelled over proved to be inhabited by three

principal and widely different races, occupying three
roughly parallel belts of country running from west
to east. The southernmost were the Namaquas.

They were yellow Hottentots, with hair growing in

tufts on their heads, and speaking a language full of

clicks. They had a strain of Dutch blood, and most
of them spoke little of the Dutch language. Their
1

                   of
                        a

                                  (1

                                                       &
                                                                                                              ;
race reaches down through more and more civilised

tribes to the Cape Colony. Captain, afterwards Sir

James Alexander 803-1 885), had travelled right

       Narrative an Explorer in Tropical South- West Africa. By F. Galton
(Murray), 2nd edition, Ward, Locke, Co., Minerva Press, 1889. Lake Wgami
Explorations in South- West Africa. By Ch. Andersson (Longman), 1856. Also
papers by both in the Journal of the Royal Geographical Society.
SOUTH-WEST AFRICA               129

through their territory from the Cape to Walfish Bay,
and back. Mission stations were planted among
them, of which the two northernmost, numbered

1 and 5 on the map, were called Schepmansdorf and

Rehoboth respectively. The Kuisip river-bed, down

which water runs only once in every few years, and
ends in Walfish Bay, makes a northern limit to the

Namaquas, which they were apt to transgress.

     The Swakop river-bed, in which water runs every

year after the rains, and which enters the sea some

forty miles north of Walfish Bay, is the southern
limit of the Damaras. Two mission stations (2 and

    called Otchimbingue and Barmen respectively, were

established on the Swakop. A third, marked on
3),

           9

                                                                 is
                                                                                            4

                                                                                                    a
the map, had been established, but destroyed shortly

before my arrival by a murderous raid of Namaquas,

under Jonker, whose name will be found on the map,

and the position of whose home  shown by
13° MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

dot. The land between the Swakop and the Kuisip
is a high desert plateau and uninhabited. The

Damaras extend northward up to about the line

where " Damara Limit" is written on the map, and
they extend far to the east. The Kaoko plain, of
which I learnt little that was definite, lies to the

west, between them and the sea.

     " Damara " is a corruption of the Hottentot

word "Damup," used indiscriminately for numerous

Bantu tribes that have no general name in their

language, but severally call themselves Ovaherero,
                           etc. In
wOvoardpan" tCiearfufr,e  " (Kaffir,    a   similar way the Arabic
                                           infidel) comprehends many
                                      or

different Bantu tribes on the east side of South

Africa. The Damaras and the Caffres are clearly of
the same race. To the immediate north of Damara

Land is a narrow belt of country fitted for habita
a
                             is

                                                     ill
                                                                   is
tion. Northward of this belt and from the line where
" Ovampo Limit " written on the map, the country
of the Ovampo. The Ovampo are pure negroes, but
of high type. Their country extends northwards a
little beyond the limits of the map, up to the Cunene

River, beyond which the Portuguese claim pos

session.

     In addition to the Damaras, small tribes are

scattered over their territory of two totally distinct
races of Hottentot and Negro. Both of these tribes
now speak the Hottentot language. The first of

them are the Bushmen, so called by the Namaquas,

and who are pure Hottentots. They are usually

small men, but not so very small as the Bushmen

proper of Cape Colony are, or rather were, for those
    SOUTH-WEST AFRICA                                                                                                        131

Damup are as purely negro as the Ovampo. The

Bushmen and the Ghou Damup are equally hunted

and equally ill-treated by the Damaras, and they live

wherever they can find safety. The Ghou Damup

are apparently the inferior of the two.

I suppose that the country was inhabited long ago

by the progenitors of the Ghou Damup, probably a

branch of the Ovampo ; that the Hottentots invaded

and lorded over the Ghou Damup for so many years
it,

                                                                                                                          ;
that the latter wholly forgot their native tongue, and

spoke the Hottentot language instead lastly, that the

Hottentots, and of course the Ghou Damup also, were

in their turn overrun by the progenitors of the

Damaras, and became dispersed among them as they

are at the present time.

The Bushmen are nomadic and good hunters.

The Ghou Damup are sedentary, living on roots and

the like, but they have a stronghold in Erongo, to the

north-west of the Mission Station No. on the map.
                              I
They live there in marvellously rocky and easily2

defensible quarters, totally unsuitable to the pastoral

Damaras, who have no object to gain by attacking

and ousting them they could.  visited also a large
                  ( if
encampment of Bushmen in quite another part of the

country, and stayed by them for four days, at the

place marked Tbs = Tounobis), on the extreme right

hand of the map.

It  was reckoned to be a six or seven days' sail

from Cape Town to Walfish Bay, so hired a small
                            It
                                       I

                                                           a
schooner, and with the help of many kind friends got

all my equipment on board.    consisted of light
 132 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

 team could be selected to draw the cart, when it was
 laden with articles of barter to buy oxen, and two if
 not three skilled drivers and other necessary men ; also
 two horses which were not expected to live long, and

did not, and a few dogs. The gear of the mission

 ary and the young missionary himself were also

taken on board. We started from Cape Town in the

second week of August 1850.
      On arriving at Walfish Bay, we found ourselves

faced by as desolate and sandy a shore as even
Africa can show, which is saying a great deal.
There was a small empty wooden hut on the beach,

very useful as a storehouse ; a few natives appeared,
and one consented to act as a messenger to the
mission station twenty miles off, in return for a stick

of tobacco and a biscuit. This is No. 1 on the map
(Schepmansdorf). We landed the things as best we

could from the schooner, which was anchored one-

third of a mile from the shore. The animals had to
swim, the rest of the cargo was taken in many
instalments by the dinghey. The missionary, Mr.
Bam, and his then guest and helper Mr. Stewardson,

a former cattle-trader, made their appearance the
next night, riding on oxen, which is a usual mode
of travel in these parts.

     In the meantime we had visited the watering-
place " Sand Fontein," three miles off, of which we

had heard, and which is marked by a dot on the map.

It was at that time a puddle of nasty water, but gave
a sufficient quantity of it for the mules and horses.
A cask of good drinking water was brought ashore

for ourselves and placed in the storehouse.
             SOUTH-WEST AFRICA                 133

carried to Mr. Barn's station, No. 1 on the map, and

it was finally arranged that Mr. Stewardson should

guide us up country to Mission Station No. 2.

My disasters began soon. The journey across the

arid plain that separated the Kuisip from the Swakop

taxed the strength of the mules, who were wholly

unused to such a strain. It was necessary to give

them immediate rest and food as soon as the pasturage

of the Swakop was reached. Tracks of wild animals

were looked for on the sand of the river-bed, but none

were found, so Stewardson urged that our mules and

horses should be left free during the night to rest and

feed themselves. The result was that a troop of lions

dashed down upon them in the dark, killing one

mule and one of my two horses. The remainder

galloped off unscathed, and were recovered in the

afternoon. The tracks of the lions by the side of

those of the animals up to the two fatal springs told

the story clearly. I had no reserve of food, so it was

necessary to utilise the horse flesh, which I cut off

and stored in an apparently safe hole in the side of

a cliff. When I returned towards nightfall to remove
    one of my enemies had out-generalled me. He
a it,
had clambered from behind and unseen to a ledge five
    I
                       Ior six yards above the hiding-place, and could be seen

there by the party below, crouched like a cat above

mouse-hole.               got down safely, meat and all, and

saw the head and the pricked ears of the brute as

he kept his position. A shot struck the rock under

his chin, and he decamped.

had little further trouble with lions during my

journey, though they were often heard roaring at
134 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

few of my remaining mules after I had no further use

for them. All eight of the mules decamped later on,

when I had provided myself with oxen ; three of

them reached Schepmansdorf ; those that disappeared
on the way had probably been killed by lions. The
very first animal I shot in Africa was a lion, just after

my first arrival at Schepmansdorf. It had crossed

from the Swakop to the Kuisip and had seized a
small dog in the yard of the mission station, while
I was asleep in an almost doorless hut that opened
on the same yard. So much for lions.

      I pass over all the other difficulties, troubles, and
events that intervened, which have been related in

the books above mentioned. Suffice it to say that

by the end of September I was installed at Station
No. 2 under the kind care of Mr. Rath, the resident
missionary. Here I had the good fortune to meet
Hans Larsen, a Dane, who spoke English perfectly.
He had been a sailor, but obtained permission to quit
his ship at Walfish Bay and to enter the service of
a cattle-dealer. When that particular venture was
concluded, he joined a second cattle-dealer, and finally
found himself at large with a small herd of oxen,

which he intended to drive overland and to sell at

Cape Town. I had been most strongly urged to
acquire his services if I could, and I did so to my
very great advantage, partly, I may add, through my
medical experience. He was willing from the first

to go, were it not for a most painful whitlow which
disabled his arm, and gave him so much pain that
he could hardly sleep or eat ; and he was totally unfit

for the expected severe manual work. He therefore
              SOUTH-WEST AFRICA  US

well. Now the sore was of a chronic kind, very

familiar to me when at the Birmingham Hospital.

There was     an outgrowth of what patients like to
call " proud  flesh," upon which a slight cautery often
acts like a charm. It stimulates the vitality of the

part and causes it to act normally. It did so in this

case. I rubbed the sore lightly over with nitrate of

silver, which hurt at the time, but eventually gave

him the first good night's rest he had enjoyed for

months. Thenceforward his finger rapidly improved

and healed, and he felt and looked himself again.
     I bought all his live stock of fifty oxen and one

hundred sheep and goats at a single swoop, by a

cheque on Cape Town for £71. Hans himself

became a most valuable and efficient servant and

friend. In brief, he and Andersson went down to the

coast with the new oxen, to break them in and

to bring up the wagons, while I remained partly at

the Mission Station No. 2, and afterwards at No. 3,

where Mr. Hugo Hahn, a very accomplished man,

who had married an English wife, was the resident

missionary.

Mr. Hahn possessed all the extant knowledge

about the Damaras, and was greatly interested in

my proposed expedition. Information about the

wretched state of the country was gradually obtained.

It came to this, that the four tribes of Namaquas

under Jonker, Cornelius, Amiral, and Swartboy

respectively, well provided with horses and guns, had

made many successive raids upon the Damaras,

lifting cattle and selling them. They usually sent

the stolen animals overland to the Cape. Some
\tf MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

to traders at Walfish Bay. The Damaras were not

only perpetually fighting among themselves, but also
provoking retaliation from the Namaquas, which the
latter only too gladly indulged in. Lastly, the
Namaquas, who in the first instance welcomed mis
sionaries, were now opposed to them and to every
outside influence or criticism, and determined to do

just what they liked both to one another and to the
Damaras. More especially they had recently deter
mined that no white man should pass through their
country to the interior. They were, in short,
behaving in a similar, but still more marked spirit
of exclusion to that of the Boers.

     The attack under Jonker on the Mission Station
No. 3 on the map was their latest iniquity. They
behaved like demons. Among other things they cut
off the feet of the women to get their ankle rings, as

related in Chapter III. Unless these misdoings could

be stopped, my journey would soon come to an end.
The Damaras believed that I and my party were
merely Hottentots in disguise, and acting as spies.

To make a long story short, I took Hans and two

intelligent men and rode on ox-back to Jonker himself,
and rated him soundly, in English first, to relieve my
mind, and then in Dutch through my interpreters,
brandishing my paper with the big seal, and
thoroughly frightened him. Arrangements, which I
cannot go into now, were made for a meeting between
myself and the other Namaqua chiefs, and ultimately
a modus vivendi was secured, which lasted all the time

 I was in the country and for a while afterwards.
      These negotiations occupied fully three months,
SOUTH-WEST AFRICA  137

expedition into readiness to start. Andersson, Hans,

and nearly all the men had gone down with the cart
and newly-bought oxen to Station No. 1, whence they

brought back the two wagons most successfully,
though having first to break in the oxen. Then,
whilst Andersson was encamped at Station No. 2, I
rode with Hans to the mountain stronghold of the
Ghou Damup, Erongo. Finally, in March, I made

my start northwards from the place where Station
No. 3 formerly stood, every step being henceforth
through new country.
                          CHAPTER X

         LANDS OF THE DAMARAS, OVAMPO, AND
                                   NAMAQUAS

 Size of caravan -- Horrors of savagedom -- Ovambonde" --To the Ovampo
       on ride-oxen -- Back to Damara land --Journey in Namaqua land
       -- Bushmen -- Large game -- Back to Walfish Bay -- Home -- Medal
       of Royal Geographical Society, and election to Athena:um Club
      under Rule II.

MY first objective was Ovambonde\ a place which
            proved to be of exaggerated interest. It is
marked B on the map. It was the only definite spot,
generally known to the Damaras, that I could hear
of in a northerly direction. Without some definite

goal it would have been necessary to travel unguided
through a country so choked with bushes bearing
cruel thorns that we might have found ourselves in
impassable blind issues time after time.

     The plateau on which we were to travel was
some 6000 feet above the level of the sea, as
calculated by the usual method from the temperature

of boiling water. It had a crisp sandy surface good

for travel, but the thorn-bushes were a serious
obstacle. Water was a daily cause for anxiety, and
was usually to be procured only at places where the
natives had recently dug for it with success. The
country is deluged at the time of the rainy season,
and pools remain for a while at many places, but they
         DAMARAS, OVAMPO, AND NAMAQUAS 139

soon disappear, partly through evaporation, but
principally from percolation through the sandy soil.
Here and there a thin layer of less porous earth holds

the water longer. The pool may then become

sanded over, but water can be reached without

trouble by digging and scraping. During a large
part of the journey this looking out for signs of
water and digging wells, after the first four hours'
journey had been accomplished, was the almost daily
occupation. The giving of drink to the oxen, three
at a time, out of an improvised trench covered with
canvas, into which the water was ladled, was a

common feature at each encampment.

     The digging for water was laborious. Sometimes

the well was already dug by natives, but dry, and had
to be so much deepened as to require a chain of three
men to utilise it. One raised the water-vessel to

another who stood a stage higher, and he to a third
who stood breast high above the surface of the ground
and poured its contents into the trough. On one of
these occasions we had fallen fast asleep, dogs and

all, utterly wearied, and found in the morning, to our
astonishment, the tracks of elephants all about us.
They had drunk at the well, disturbed nobody, and

disappeared into the not distant bush, whither I

followed them in vain.

     The caravan at starting consisted of ten Europeans

and about eighteen natives, or twenty-eight in all.

The two wagons were both laden. The large one

had a solid deck over its cargo, and the space above
 deck was curtained into two compartments, in which
Andersson and I slept when the ground was wet ; as

a rule we bivouacked in the open. The available
140 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

space above the deck of the wagon was too low to
read or write in with comfort. The small wagon
held the clothes of the men in addition to its regular

freight, and nobody slept in it except during the

heavy rains. At first the natives of my party were

constantly changing, and in addition to my own

party there were occasional hangers-on.

     As regards commissariat, my biscuit and every
kind of vegetable food had been eaten up. I had
plenty of tea, coffee, and some sugar, and a few trifles

besides, but no wine or spirits except for medicine.
Our sustenance was henceforth to be the flesh of the

oxen and sheep driven with us, eked out by occasional

game. The charge of the cattle was our constant
anxiety and care ; if lost or stolen, we should be
starved. The estimate was that one sheep -- they were
very lean--afforded twenty meals, and I found that
men on full work required two meals daily. An ox

was reckoned equal to seven sheep, and would there
fore feed twenty-four people for three days. The gross
total of oxen, cows, and calves in the caravan was

ninety-four ; that of sheep was twenty-four. Seventy-
five of the oxen were broken in ; nine of these as ride-

oxen and a few others as pack-oxen, the remainder

only for draught. I considered myself to be provided
for ten weeks, exclusive of game, while still preserving
a sufficiency of trained oxen.

     I had many things for barter, but could not fore
see whether, or how far, they would be accepted in
exchange for cattle. It afterwards appeared that two
sticks of cavendish tobacco was a usual equivalent for
one sheep, and a rod of iron or a gun for perhaps

eight oxen.
         DAMARAS, OVAMPO, AND NAMAQUAS 141

 * I soon saw some of the horrors of savagedom.
My dogs found a wretched native whose muscles
along the back of his neck had been severed to the
bone, but whose throat was uninjured. He had

crawled under thorn-bushes to die, whence we ex

tricated him. His head rolled horribly, but he could
speak a little. I did what I could in the way of
splints and bandages, but he soon died. Then, while

staying with a most gentlemanly chief, Kahichene\ who
was himself killed soon afterwards, and his followers

dispersed, two of my fore-oxen were stolen. They
are by far the most important animals in a team.
The chief sent trackers after them. They and the
thief were brought back ; I begged for the man's life,
for ox-stealing is a capital offence. He was spared
while I was there, but clubbed, as I understood, after

I had left. But enough of these gruesome stories.
I had to hold a little court of justice on most days,

usually followed by corporal punishment, deftly ad

ministered. At a signal from me the culprit's legs

were seized from behind, he was thrown face forward
on the ground and held, while Hans applied the

awarded number of whip strokes. This rough-and-

ready justice became popular. Women, as usual,
were the most common causes of quarrel.

     The Damaras were for the most part thieving
and murderous, dirty, and of a low type ; but their
chiefs were more or less highly bred. These people

seldom die natural deaths ; many are killed when
fighting, many are murdered, and sick persons are

as a rule smothered by their relatives. It was

fortunate for me that there was at that time no

paramount chief in Damara land, unless it were a man
142 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

like Kahichend. The smaller ones feared our weapons

and the mystery attached to white men coming from

afar, who might be in friendly relations with their

dreaded enemies, so I was able to slip through their

lawless country with comparative ease.

Ovambonde proved to be of no importance. It

was nothing more than a long reach in a then dry

river-bed, which would, however, assume a very

different aspect after heavy rains. By the time we

had arrived there, the tales concerning a different

race called the Ovampo, who lived to the northwards

beyond the Damaras, had become more and more

consistent and exciting, and gave a fresh impetus

to proceed. The Damara limit is marked on the

map ; the axle of one of my wagons broke just

before reachingif      Consequently     made a camp
                                     I
near a friendly Damara chief, and left the wagons,it.I

with Hans and the drivers, to be repaired in the wayA

familiar to Boers, and started for Ovampo land with

Andersson and three men on ride-oxen.            also took

three laden pack-oxen and a few loose ones in reserve,

to furnish food needed.

    A caravan travels every six months from Ovampo

land to buy Damara cattle, stopping at the very place

where we had been.     nother caravan similarly travels

along the Kaoko (see map) between Damara land
and the sea. We met one of the former of these

caravans little after we had started, so we returned
   a

afor while to our old camp, and finally went back to
Ovampo land with it. These Ovampo were under

strict discipline, secret and very resolute.     I  could

not do what liked in their company, but had toI
depend on their plans. The will of their king
    DAMARAS, OVAMPO, AND NAMAQUAS 143

Nangoro was supreme. I could not enter the country,

a
                it,
                                    it,

                                                                            a
                                                                                          a
trade in or leave except with his permission.

The border-land between the Damaras and the

Ovampo seemed to be a natural frontier unsuitable

for occupation. We passed bleak plains and then

wide belt of thorn-bushes, which after                                                       day's

journey ceased suddenly and disclosed broad stretch

of fields of maize, a strange and welcome sight.

After a day's march through these, we reached the

place where Nangoro lived.

II  did much to make myself agreeable, investing

Nangoro with big theatrical crown that had bought
in Drury Lane for some such purpose. But have
    a                                  II
                                                 I
           I
                   I
reason to believe that deeply wounded his pride

by the non-acceptance of his niece as, presume,

a temporary wife.   found her installed in my tent

in negress finery, raddled with red ochre and butter,

and as capable of leaving   a  mark on anything

she touched as well-inked printer's roller.                                                  was
    a                                        I

dressed in my one well-preserved suit of white linen,

so had her ejected with scant ceremony. The

Damaras are very hospitable in this way, and con

sider the missionaries to be actuated by pride in

not reciprocating.

We were treated with strict courtesy, but, except

at the very first, without friendliness; a sense of

growing constraint was everywhere, and there were

ugly signs of an intention to allow our oxen to die

of hunger, and then to make an easy end of us after

wards. The Ovampo carry on             trade with the
                            ;

                                    a
Portuguese half-castes to the north, and knew and

despised the guns used by them but ours were shown,

by their bullet marks after firing at a distant tree, to
144 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

be of a much higher order and to be feared. Probably

that new view of their value helped us considerably.
We were quite at the mercy of Nangoro ; our cattle

grew thinner daily on the very scant pasturage to

which they were restricted, and Nangoro would not
give me permission to go farther. It was as much

as our oxen could do to take us back at all, and

having at length received permission, or orders (I
know not which), to return, I did so with mixed
feelings -- regret at having to turn back, relief at
getting away safely. The Ovampo were suspicious

of us, but seemed particularly happy and social among
themselves, and to be a people well worthy of friendly

astsud"yt.aboBou"t  the spirit of what   is elsewhere known
                    reigned everywhere,  and simple inquiries
were too frequently met with the rejoinder of " You

must not ask." I had very good interpreters between

the Damara and Ovampo languages.

My fears of ill-usage were shown not to be fanci

ful, by the fact that a party who followed me some

years later were attacked as they departed, and had

to fire in self-defence. According to one of many

rumours, a stray bullet killed Nangoro himself, at

a considerable distance, while he was sitting within

his own stockade. The party got safely away, but

were in great danger.

     The return journey to the wagons was indeed

difficult. One bitterly cold encampment in a hollow

on the bleak plain, where we were comparatively safe

from a night attack, seriously tried the constitution

of some of my best ride-oxen, who never afterwards

became as serviceable as they were before. The

wagon was however mended, all had gone well
         DAMARAS, OVAMPO, AND NAMAQUAS 145

with the men left behind, and we started home

wards.

     Ultimately the whole party was brought safely
back to Station No. 3 on August 3, 185 1, where
we were most heartily welcomed and congratulated
by Mr. Hahn after our long absence of five months,
during which no news whatever of us had reached
him. In the meantime I had spent ninety days in
actual travel, independently of such excursions as

were needed from time to time to look out for

practicable routes. Of these ninety days, fifty were

occupied in travel to Nangoro and forty in returning.
The return distance in time was 168 hours, equal
to 462 miles. Our road had passed through a
dangerous and difficult country ; it traversed the
whole breadth of Damara land, and had reached
the capital of the country beyond it to the north.

      Some little news had reached Mr. Hahn from

Europe through the hands of a cattle-trader. It

included an English newspaper, but no letters for
myself; it was now one year and four months since I
had heard a single word from my home. Peace had

been kept during my absence between the Hottentots

and Damaras.

    A ship was expected for the missionaries not

earlier than December, so I should have a clear four

months for further travel and yet be able to catch that
ship. I determined on a quick journey to the east
wards of the Namaqua country, and dispatched
 messengers at once with letters to the Cape, in doing
which the Namaqua chief Swartboy assisted me. I

 thereby made arrangements to confirm those partly
made by the missionaries about the time of departure

                10
146 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

of their ship, that it might not arrive too soon. I then

divided my party and settled matters relating to the
future of the wagons and their contents, also in regard

to my three remaining mules, the rest of which had

died or been killed by lions long since. Then I started

afresh on August 13, taking one wagon with me,
Andersson, three of my best servants, and five or six

of my most active Damaras, and went in the first

instance to Jonker.
     He received me kindly, and I had the good fortune

to find in this place a fairly educated man, Erhardt,

imported by the missionaries as a schoolmaster, who

spoke Dutch and English perfectly, and Hottentot

fairly well. I engaged his services, especially as he

undertook to guide me as far as Elephant Fountain

(E.F. on the map), which had been the ultima Thule

of the missionaries. I was also asked to settle some

disputes between the other Namaqua chiefs, who

were all very friendly to me now. I proposed to

push farther forward from Elephant Fountain as far
as time, the exceptional drought of the year, and the

weakened stamina of my oxen permitted.

     We left Jonker     August 30,  and arrived at
Elephant Fountain                    where I found
                      September n,

myself at last in a country of big game. There was a

copious spring, and herds of all kinds of animals came

to drink. It received its name from the large number

of tusks found in the water at this place when the

Namaquas first reached  as though had been a
in

                         It it,

                                                        it

                                                             It
spot to which elephants travelled to die, according to

a well-known legend.    was then overgrown with

reeds, and formed a notable covert for wild beasts.

lies a corner of the district then claimed by the
         DAMARAS, OVAMPO, AND NAM AQUAS 147

chief Amiral. Farther to the south of it the country
becomes desert. Amiral joined me, by arrangement,
at Elephant Fountain for a shooting expedition. He
and his people seemed much more civilised than the
other Namaquas, and nearer in character to the
Dutch Boers.

     I left my wagon with two men, together
with those of Amiral and some of his own men

whom he left behind to guard them, and starting on
ride-oxen with Andersson we reached Twas, the
farthest point yet visited by Amiral, on about the

28th. In front of us lay an arid plain, especially arid

in this very dry year, which had to be crossed in

order to reach the next watering place, well known to
the Bushmen, but not to Amiral, and called Tounobis.

     My oxen were tired and footsore, but we went.
It proved to be a journey of 20^ hours actual desert
travel, and led us suddenly into an ideal country of
big game. The ground, adjacent to a broad river-bed,
was trodden with the tracks of all sorts of animals,

elephants, rhinoceros, lions, and a vast variety of
smaller game. Crowds of Bushmen were encamped
near to the water, busy with their pitfalls and with
securing an elephant that had fallen into one of them

during the previous night. We became great friends

with the Bushmen, and sat late into the night hearing
their stories about themselves and the recent doings
of a body of strange Namaquas coming from the
south, who in the preceding year had swept past
them and onwards to Lake Ngami, leaving unmis
takable signs of their expedition, and marauding as

usual as they went. This much, therefore, was estab
lished, that a feasible road existed from Walfish
148 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Bay to the interior, of which I had myself travelled
as far as Tounobis, and the remaining few days'
journey had been travelled during the preceding year

by marauding Namaquas.
     After staying a week at Tounobis, Amiral wished

to return home, and I was not in a position to travel
farther afield, because the next stage towards Lake
Ngami was described by all as being more severe

than the last one, and with my tired oxen it was
as much as we could do to get back at all. So I
returned, and, ultimately, found myself back on the
shores of Walfish Bay on December 5. The wished-
for schooner arrived on January 16, 1852. I finally
parted with Andersson, Hans, and most of the men,
and retaining only three with me for the possibility of
a short travel in Portuguese territory, which came to
nothing, I sailed to St. Helena, whence I returned

straight to England.

This, in a few words, is an outline of my journey.

The distances were (as carefully calculated), Walfish
Bay to Station No. 3 (Barmen) 207 miles, Barmen to
                                    Barmen to Tounobis 311     miles,
--Natnogtaol ro1053102    miles,  and nearly as many back ;  besides
                        miles,

other side expeditions, especially that to Erongo, and

another of little interest that has not been alluded to

above.

     This bald outline of a very eventful journey has
taken little notice of the risks and adventures which
characterised it and are recorded in my book. They

must be imagined by the reader, otherwise the follow
ing paragraph will seem overcharged, which it is not.

     I had little conception of the severity of the
anxiety under which I had been living until I found
DAMARAS, OVAMPO, AND NAMAQUAS 149

myself on board the little vessel that took me away,

and I felt at last able to sleep in complete security.

I had indeed to be thankful that all ended so well.

I did not lose one of my many men either through

violence or sickness during the long and harassing

journey. It was undertaken with servants who at

starting were found to be anything but qualified for

their work, who grumbled, held back, and even

mutinied, and over whom I had none other than a

moral control. The very cattle that were to carry

me had to be broken in, and I had to call into service

an indolent and cruel set of natives speaking an

unknown tongue. The country was suffering the
atrocities of savage warfare when I arrived -- tribe
against tribe and race against race -- which had to

be stopped before I could proceed. I had no

food to depend on except the cattle I drove with

me, which might any night decamp or be swept off

by a raid. That all this was gone through success

fully I am indebted in the highest degree both to

Andersson and Hans, to whom I have had to make

too scant reference here for want of space.

Andersson remained behind to investigate the

natural history of the countries we had opened out,
and wrote histories of his journeys and observations.
He ultimately died in Damara land. Hans found

his way to the gold diggings of Australia, but with

the exception of one letter that he sent me before

starting I lost all communication with him, to my very
great regret. He must have met with mischance.

I reached England exactly two years after leaving
that on April
it,                                                    1852, more than fifty-six
               is

                                                   5,

years ago.
MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

I began this chapter by showing how largely the

Geographical Society aided me in preparing for the

journey. I conclude it by showing how still more

deeply I became indebted to it for its approbation.

The Society awarded to me one of their two annual

gold medals in 1854, "for having at his [my] own

cost and in furtherance of the expressed desire of

the Society, fitted out an expedition to explore the

centre of South Africa, and for having so successfully

conducted it through the countries of the Namaquas,

the Damaras, and the Ovampo (a journey of about
1700 miles), as to enable this Society to publish a
valuable memoir and map in the last volume of the

Journal, relating to a country hitherto unknown ; the

astronomical observations determining the latitude

and longitude of places having been most accurately

made by himself."

The President, Sir Roderick Murchison, in pre

senting the medal to me at the Anniversary Meeting

(I quote from the Times), having read the above
paragraph in the Report, said that Mr. Galton had

a distinct claim on the Society before all other African

travellers, because he had fitted out the expedition at

his own expense in furtherance of their expressed

wishes, and had zealously accomplished that which he

had so disinterestedly undertaken. Then, turning to
Mr. Galton, he added : " It is now my pleasing duty

to place in your hands this testimony of the appro

bation of the Royal Geographical Society. I am

sure you will receive  it,                                    as the
                                                         it,
                       as we intend

highest honour which we can possibly confer. You

left a happy home to visit a country never before

penetrated by a civilised being. You have accom
          DAMARAS, OVAMPO, AND NAM AQUAS 151

 plished that which every geographer in this room
must feel is of eminent advantage to the science in
 which we take so deep an interest. Accept, with
these expressions, my belief that, so long as England
 possesses travellers with the resolution you have
displayed, and so long as private gentlemen will
devote themselves to accomplish what you have
achieved, we shall always be able to boast that
this country produces the best geographers of the

day."

     The Geographical Medal gave me an established
position in the scientific world. In connection with

subsequent work, it caused me to be elected a
Fellow of the Royal Society in 1856, and to
receive in the same year the very high honour of

election to the Athenaeum Club under Rule II.,

which provides that the Council may elect not more
than nine persons in each year on the ground of
distinction in Science, Literature, Art, or Public
Service, being at the average rate of a little more
than two elections annually, under each of these
four broad heads. The recipient is thereby saved
many, sometimes sixteen or more, years of waiting,
before his turn would arrive to be balloted for in

the ordinary course of election. So I have much
to be grateful for to the Royal Geographical Society,
and I loyally did my best to promote its interests
during the many years that I served on its Council
in various capacities.
                    CHAPTER XI

              AFTER RETURN HOME-- MARRIAGE

   Yacht to Norway -- Dover -- Marriage -- Relations of my own ; those
                                           of my wife

      N returning to England, my gratification was
           great in finding all my immediate relatives well

and eager to welcome me. But I was rather used up
in health, and desired to get out of the way of being
lionised, which is exceedingly wearisome to the lion
after the first excitement and novelty of the process
have worn away. So I gladly accepted an invitation
from Sir Hyde Parker to yacht and fish with him in

Norway. He was a famed fisherman, and had landed
in Norway the largest salmon on record with a fly,

66 lb. in weight, authoritatively confirmed. Several
of his yachting friends were to have sailed at the
same time ; but their plans were affected by the
electioneering then going on ; consequently, after the
loss of some precious days, we were accompanied
only by the yachts of Mr. Bentinck and Mr. Milner
Gibson.

     The former told us interesting anecdotes of Lord

Brougham's early rise at the Bar, how eagerly his
help was sought by the smart men of those days
when they got into scrapes, as being more likely
to get them out of their difficulties than any one
          AFTER RETURN HOME-- MARRIAGE 153

else. The extraordinary versatility and energy of
Lord Brougham had made a great impression on me
at that time and long previously, and I listened

eagerly to anecdotes of him. A timid and rather

elderly lady had told me that Lord Brougham was

once a guest at her brother's house, where his
appearance was awaited with awe. The great man
arrived, talked incessantly and wonderfully well during
dinner, but retired early on account of business letters.

Later on, while she was preparing for bed, an awful
yell or scream, which she could only describe in the
negative terms of unearthly and totally unlike anything
she had ever heard before, rang through the corridor.

She tremblingly snatched up whatever dress was
at hand, and issued in terror to learn what had
happened. She met Lord Brougham's valet with a
candle in his hand, walking leisurely, and cried to

him, "What is it? What is it?" He answered

unconcernedly, "It is only his Lordship calling for

me ; that is his usual way."

     There is a remarkably good wax effigy of Lord

Brougham as a young man in Madame Tussaud's
collection, perhaps the most real-looking of any there.
Later on I was taken to see him in his house at

Cannes, a few years before his death. Doubts had

recently been expressed in the newspapers about his
version of the circumstances attending the dissolution
of Parliament by William iv., which made Lord

Brougham exceedingly wroth. It was fine but sad
to witness the unmeasured indignation of the old hero,

punctuating his remarks as he sat, by heavy digs
into the sand with the point of his umbrella, held in
both hands like a dagger.
154 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

     Notwithstanding the Norway cruise, my health
remained out of sorts, and a little later in the year,
while some of my old fever was on me, I could not

resist a dangerous exposure in order to witness the

funeral of the Duke of Wellington. This made me

              could hardly stand, but somehow
seriously  I ill
                    ;
                 II
                                           it
                                                                     a
made my way to my mother's house at Claverdon,

where she and my sister Emma nursed me tenderly,

and then, as  got better,  was agreed that we

should all go together to Dover for                                     complete

change.

     There recovered completely, and became engaged
to my future wife, the daughter of the Very Rev.

George Butler, Dean of Peterborough, who had been

Headmaster of Harrow during many years. My

wife had three sisters and four brothers, the latter all

highly distinguished for scholastic and administrative

ability.
         shrink, yet cannot wholly refrain from speaking

of the affection freely received from them, their
relatives and their friends, all owing to that happy
II
                     I

                                           I
                                                                                it
marriage, which lasted forty-four years, and ended
at Royat in 1897, followed by a grave in the cemetery
at Clermont Ferrand.

         shall say little about my purely domestic life,
which, however full of interest to myself, would be

uninteresting to strangers, so attempt no more than
to give brief accounts of the friendships and events

that followed my marriage in 1853 up to about 1866.

This interval of thirteen years occupies a fairly well
defined part of my life owing to two reasons, namely,
that my scientific interests during its latter half

became concentrated on heredity, and because was.
AFTER RETURN HOME-- MARRIAGE  155

in 1866 that my health suffered a more serious

breakdown than had happened to it before. During
the whole of this interval I find from old diaries that
I frequently suffered from giddiness and other maladies

prejudicial to mental effort, but that I invariably
became well again on completely changing my habits,
as by touring abroad and taking plenty of out-of-door

exercise. The warning I received in 1866 was more

emphatic and alarming than previously, and made a
revision of my mode of life a matter of primary im
portance. Those who have not suffered from mental

breakdown can hardly realise the incapacity it causes,
or, when the worst is past, the closeness of analogy

between a sprained brain and a sprained joint. In

both cases, after recovery seems to others to be

complete, there remains for a long time an impossi
bility of performing certain minor actions without

pain and serious mischief, mental in the one and

bodily in the other. This was a frequent experience

with me respecting small problems, which successively

obsessed me day and night, as I tried in vain to think
them out. These affected mere twigs, so to speak,
rather than large boughs of the mental processes,

but for all that most painfully.

     My own family became dispersed in four groups.
My mother and my sister Emma lived together in

Leamington, and their house became a second home

to my wife and myself. My mother always showed

the greatest affection to me throughout her long life,
which closed in 1874. After her death, the house
and garden devolved upon my sister Emma. She
cared for the interests of the family as a whole, and
for each of us severally. She was invaluable to my
i56 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

wife and myself, and became my regular correspondent,

whose weekly letters were awaited and read by us

both with eagerness.

     My eldest sister lived during the time with which

I am now concerned, with her husband and her two

growing children, in the country, about seven miles

from Leamington.

My sister Adele lost her husband not long after

her marriage, and settled successively in various

places at home and abroad, devoting herself, as

already said, to the education of her little girl. She

died in 1883.

     My second brother, Erasmus, lived for a while

on his property at Loxton, in Somersetshire, five

miles from Weston-super-Mare, but joined the 2nd

Warwickshire Militia during many years, of which
he became Major. He is now the only survivor of

my six brothers and sisters, and is ninety-three years

of age.

     I turn from my own family to that of my wife.
Her father was Dean of Peterborough, previously

Headmaster of Harrow during many years, and

before his appointment the Senior Wrangler at

Cambridge, in the year in which Copley, the future

Lord Lyndhurst, was second.  There was no

Classical class list in existence in Cambridge in those

days, but the fact of Dr. Butler's election to the Head-

mastership of Harrow at a very early age testifies to

his reputation as a classical scholar as well as a

mathematician. He had been noted for athletic

powers, and he much prized a medal awarded to him

by the Humane Society for having saved the life of a

drowning woman when long past his middle age.
         AFTER RETURN HOME-- MARRIAGE 157

He afterwards overtaxed his heart by exertion to

catch a train, which, among other effects, brought on
a considerable degree of blindness, and made him in
many respects invalided before the age of eighty.
But his mind was apparently in full vigour, and his
interests were most keen. Few persons had a more

courtly demeanour. I was fated never to know him as

a father-in-law. When I reached the Deanery from

London, in order to be formally accepted into the
family, I found the blinds drawn, and learnt that the
Dean had died suddenly at luncheon. There had
been some discussion in the morning about Cathedral
matters in the Chapter House, and the excitement
told fatally upon him, as it was always feared that any
exceptional emotion might do. I was taken upstairs
to look upon his dead face.

     The Dean was father of an exceptionally gifted

family. All of his four sons distinguished themselves

highly at the Universities. The youngest was the
Senior Classic of his year, subsequently Headmaster
of Harrow, as his father had been before him, then

for a brief time Dean of Gloucester, now and
for many past years Master of Trinity College,

Cambridge.
     The same gifts of nature have descended in

large measure to the grandchildren. Out of the
eighteen grandsons of Dr. George Butler, Dean of
Peterborough, a full half have already shown
exceptional ability. Five have won a University

Scholarship or prize, two others have given promise
of high administrative power in India, one of whom
now occupies the important post of Foreign Secre
tary to the Indian Government. Out of the five
    MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

granddaughters, one has obtained a First Class in
History at Oxford. This by no means exhausts the

achievements of the grandchildren. The Butler

family well deserve study as an instance of hereditary

gifts, but this is hardly the place for
                                           I
    Neither can enlarge as could have done on the
    is                                            it.
                    I

                                is
                                        I
far greater importance of being married into a family

that good in character, in health, and in ability,

than into one that                 either very wealthy or very

noble, but lacks these primary qualifications. The

enlargement afforded to the previous family interests

through marriage so great that much must be lost
    I

                         ;

                 it
                               is
when first cousins marry one another.

    protest against the opinions of those sentimental

people who think that marriage concerns only the two

principals has in reality the wider effect of an alliance

between each of them and a new family. Moreover,

the interests of the unborn should be taken far more

seriously into account than they now are. Enough

is  already known of the laws of heredity to make      it

certain that the marriage of one class of persons will

lead on the whole to good results, and that of another

class to evil ones, however doubtful the result may

be in particular cases. Of this shall speak more

fully in the final chapter.

    As regards the earlier domestic life of my wife

and myself, we lived in a flat in Victoria Street

for three years then               bought the long lease of
    ;

              I

42 Rutland Gate, which has been my home ever

since. We followed the usual routine of social life of

persons of our class, making tours every year, usually
abroad. The doctors sometimes sent one or both of

us to undergo a cure at some watering-place. In this
         AFTER RETURN HOME-- MARRIAGE 159

way we visited and, some of them more than once,
Spa, Vichy, ContrdxeVille, Wildbad, Baden, Royat,
and Mont Dore les Bains. We also often went to the
Riviera and elsewhere. My finances had at this time to
be considered rather carefully, as an income which was
sure to arrive eventually was long delayed, and the
property that was to yield it entailed a cost that almost
swallowed up its profits. But there was no real stint ;
we had quite sufficient fortune for an unpretending
establishment, with abundant leisure besides.

      Certainly we led a life that many in our social rank
might envy. Among our friends were not a few
notable persons, a full half of whom were first known
to me through the connections of my wife. Then I
was blessed with an abundance of animal spirits and

hopefulness, though they were dashed temporarily
over and over again by the great readiness with
which my brain became overtaxed ; however, I always

recuperated quickly. Once I had a bad reminder of

my old Syrian ague, but, thanks to quinine
(which the ancients would have deified had they
known of its virtues), the malady passed away so far
out of sight as to have since recurred only at long
intervals.

     One of the pleasantest description of events in those
days were the long walks I took, especially at Easter-
time, with one or other of my brothers-in-law, or
with their or my own friends. Let me venture to
describe my own views as to provisions suitable for a
day's walk during a homely tramp. They are such as
can be procured at any town however small, are tasty,
easy to carry, exempt from butter, which is apt to leak
out of paper parcels, and are highly nutritious. They
i6o MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

are two slices of bread half an inch thick, a slice of
cheese of nearly the same thickness, and a handful of
sultana raisins. The raisins supply what bread and
cheese lack ; they play the same part that cranberries do
in pemmican, that nasty, and otherwise scarcely eatable
food of Arctic travellers. The luncheon rations that I

advocate are compact, and require nothing besides
water to afford a satisfactory and sustaining midday

meal. If sultanas cannot be got, common raisins will

do ; lumps of sugar make a substitute, but a very

imperfect one.
     We frequently enjoyed the hospitality of the Head

master of Harrow and his wife. One delightful way of
spending Sunday in those days was to walk to Harrow
along what was then a comparatively countrified road, to
take afternoon tea at the house of my wife's mother,
Mrs. Butler, who resided on the outskirts of Harrow,

to go to the evening service at the School Chapel,
to have a good square tea-supper at the Head
master's, presided over by his attractive wife (nde
Elliot), where interesting people were nearly always
present ; afterwards to walk or rail home in the
evening, usually with a companion.
                  CHAPTER XII

                         " ART OF TRAVEL "

       Compilation of the Art of Travel-- Lectures at Aldershot --

                     Heliostat -- Rifle screen --Reader newspaper

I WAS rather unsettled during a few years, wish
        ing to undertake a fresh bit of geographical
exploration, or even to establish myself in some
colony ; but I mistrusted my powers, for the health
that had been much tried had not wholly recovered.
On the other hand, there was abundance of useful
work at home. Geographical exploration had become
a topic of general interest. Burton had penetrated to
Mecca. Japan was opened, and Laurence Oliphant
had returned thence. Dr. Barth had come back at
last from his long exploration of North Africa, includ
ing districts which are now under British and French
rule and well mapped, but at that time were either

partially or quite unknown. It is very different

 now ; a letter can be sent for a penny to Kano, and
 Timbuctoo has become a French military station.
 Arctic expeditions by land and sea were then much
 to the fore; Dr. Rae (1813-1893) had performed
 his great journeys in Arctic North America, with
 a wonderfully small and inexpensive equipment.
 Lesseps was engaged in obtaining support for making
 the Suez Canal, and I must say that the British

                      11
                  MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

 engineers who pooh-poohed its possibility at the
meeting of the Royal Geographical Society, where it
was the subject of a paper by Lesseps, have proved
untrustworthy guides and prophets. I threw myself
into the thick of the discussions and criticisms of

whatever had just been done, and into the prepara
tions for what was about to be undertaken, and was
in short a very active member of the Council.

     It was not long after my marriage that the
character of a piece of work that lay before me was
clearly perceived. It was ready to be taken in hand
and most suitable to my powers. It was to aid others
in the exploration of the then unknown parts of the
world, especially of Africa, of whose total length as

much had been seen by me in my two journeys as

perhaps by any one else then living. Being placed on
the Council of the Royal Geographical Society, I
thoroughly utilised that position to fulfil my object.
The ignorance of travellers in any one country of the
arts of travel employed in others was great, and I
tried to make a compendium of them all. Having
easy access to every traveller of note in England, I
read many books of travel, or rather skimmed them
for the purpose. Amongst others, I turned over every
page in Pinkerton's well-known series of large quarto
volumes of the narratives of travellers.

     The result was that sufficient material was
gathered for the composition of a small book entitled

the Art of Travel (Murray). It soon reached a

second edition, and was afterwards rewritten and

much enlarged to form a third edition, which was
stereotyped, and even now continues to be sold. I
also took considerable part in the first edition of the
                "ART OF TRAVEL"                                     163

Hints to Travellers issued by the Geographical

Society, which has long since quite outgrown its

original form, all its chapters having been rewritten,
each of them by experts. In its present shape it is

a most trustworthy guide to travellers for such instru

mental and other scientific work as they need to be
                                                             " Notes and
aQcuqeuraieinste" darewitah.simTilhaer  Anthropological      compendium
                                        and most useful

relating to that branch of science. I had some share

in this, but by no means a large one.

I cannot resist quoting the following letter from

my cousin Charles Darwin, the great naturalist, whose

opinion as the author of the Voyage of the Beagle
was naturally valued by me most highly. I had

asked him for hints while engaged on the first edition
of the Art of Travel, and sent him a copy of
                                                                    it,  to

which he now refers. This was four years before the
publication of the Origin of Species --
                                           I
"My dear Galton, --                                   :  "Do\VN,/a«. 10, ?i855
                                                       received your kind

present yesterday.  aI                  always thought your idea of
your Book a very good one, and that you would do
capitally, and from what have seen my forethought
is, it                                  I

    I   am sure, quite justified.                      I  hope that your

volume will have a large sale, but what fully expect
                                                          if
                                                              I
that will have long sale, and you save from
is
            it

some disasters half a dozen explorers, feel sure that
                                                          I

you will think yourself                 well   rewarded for all     the
trouble your volume must                have                        me,
                                              cost you. -- Believe
my dear Galton, yours very truly,                         C. Darwin "

    The outbreak of the Crimean War showed the

helplessness of our soldiers in the most elementary
matters of camp-life. Believing that something could
 1 64 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

 be done by myself towards removing this extra

ordinary and culpable ignorance, I offered to give

lectures on the subject, gratuitously, at the then

newly founded camp at Aldershot. As may be
imagined from what is otherwise known of the con
fusion of the War Office at that time, no answer at
all was sent to my letters, until I ventured to apply
personally to the then Premier, Lord Palmerston, who
at once caused me to be installed. It is evident from
my old notebooks that I worked very hard to frame
a suitable course of practical instruction and of

lectures for those who cared to profit by them.
     General Knowles (1 797-1 883) was then in com

mand, and he gave me both moral and material help.
He assigned me two huts, and made arrangements

about hours. My second brother, Erasmus, was in
camp as Captain in the 2nd Warwickshire Militia,
and his presence was most grateful to me. I myself

took a small house about two miles from my hut, and
walked there and back each day. Several officers

came, and not a few of them showed interest. A

lecture was also given by me at the United Service
Institution, and the newspapers warmly backed the
attempt. The War Office requested that ten (I
think) reproductions should be made of a cabinet
with four drawers, containing models of what was
exhibited in my lectures. One of the cabinets was

sent to the South Kensington Museum, and may be
there still. One was sent to Woolwich. The others
were distributed elsewhere. I do not think that my
lectures had much other result, because the rude

teachings of the Crimean War soon superseded

mine, and the army generally became expert in
"ART OF TRAVEL"  165

 much of what I had wished should be known by

 them.

     A small contrivance of my own, over which I

 spent a great deal of time, may be alluded to here ;

it is described at length in the Art of Travel, and in

 other publications, as a "Hand Heliostat " [10]. I

 contrived and practised with it long before the present
 system of sun-signalling had been invented. The use
 of a heliostat for creating a point of light, visible at
great distances for purposes of Ordnance triangulation,
 had long been fully recognised ; a description of its
 employment from Snowdon to Scawfell has already
 been given in Chapter V. The difficulty in using a
 portable instrument is to direct the flash with sufficient

accuracy of aim. If the part of the landscape upon

which the flash falls could actually be seen by the
operator, it would always appear to be of exactly the
same size as the disc of the sun itself, whatever the

distance may be ; in other words, it subtends an angle

of about 30 minutes of a degree. My plan was to
divert a small part of the flash so as to create a mock-
sun in the field of view of the instrument, which the

operator could throw, by judicious handling, upon any
desired spot in the landscape, with the assurance that
persons on the ground covered by the mock-sun could
see the flash. The instrument is now used in nautical

surveys, as I was told by the late H ydrographer, Sir
William Wharton, to enable shore parties to make

their exact whereabouts visible to those on the ship.
The heliostat that I usually carried with me went

easily into a large waistcoat pocket, and was very
efficient at a distance of ten miles. I should have

been glad to possess one on many occasions when

1
1 66 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

travelling in Damara Land. However, without

additional complications, it could not be made into

a really serviceable instrument for transmitting verbal

messages. It would then require nearly as much

trouble to carry as the present sun-signalling apparatus,

while it would be less rapid and sure.1

    It is interesting to flash with a small mirror against

a light-coloured surface that lies in shadow, as through

an open window against the opposite wall of the room

behind. The size and shape of the mirror is then

seen to have very little influence on the size or shape

of the mock-sun, even at moderate distances. In long-

range signalling their influence is wholly inappreciable.

I may describe here another contrivance, partly

belonging to Art-of-Travel matters, partly military,
                                                                    It
that  I sent to the United Service  "InBsrtoitwutnionBe[1ss2,]".
was   appropriate to the days of                                  but

useless as a protection against modern musket bullets

with their flat trajectories. I showed it was easy to

provide a screen under which A. could hit B. at any

distance beyond, say, 200 yards, while on the other

hand B. could not hit A., although he might see him

clearly. The balls of B. would be intercepted by the

target. The principle on which the target gave pro

    1 Anyhow, the optical principle on which it worked was pretty. A
part of the flash struck one end of a strip cut out of the middle of a

glass lens, and was brought by it to a focus (a burning spot) on an
otherwise shaded porcelain screen. The eye looking through the other
end of the strip saw the burning spot as a mock-sun. Now, by a well-
known optical law, the apparent position of the burning spot is the same
whatever be the part of the lens that makes or through which
viewed. So the mock-sun seen by the eye covers the same part of the
landscape that simultaneously covered by the flash. The eye sees,

    true, only one portion of the mock-sun, whence the position of the

rest has to be inferred.
is
                            is
                                                                                       it,
                                                                                                              it
                                                                                                                                it is
                     "ART OF TRAVEL"

tection was that the flight of a bullet does not describe
a symmetrical curve. Its course is nearly straight at
first, then gradually curves downward until it may be

said to plunge. If A. and B. are in full sight of one

another but at some little distance apart, and fire at
one another, the courses of the incoming and outgoing
bullet are different. That of the incoming bullet is
higher by several inches or feet than the outgoing.

Consequently, if a shield be interposed, near to A.,
above his line of shooting and at such a height that
it will not interfere with his outgoing shot, it will

effectually prevent a shot of B. from touching him, and
conversely. The numerical conditions are worked out
on the paper. The idea took the fancy of some of
the audience, as one that might possibly be of much

service.

      I was a humble sharer in an undertaking started
by Herbert Spencer, of establishing a weekly news
paper of literature and science, that was to eclipse the

existing ones. His contention was that, if a few

selected men were to combine each to write one

article weekly, on a subject within his own province,
a periodical might be produced that would have great

weight and authority. The late Sir Frederick Pollock

undertook its general editorship, to be helped in all
details by a paid sub-editor, Mr. B., while he would
keep the more purely literary portion in his own
hands. Tom Hughes (the author of Tom Brown)
lent us his rooms and his co-operation. Tyndall
undertook Physical Science ; Huxley took Physiology,
with reservation, as he could not afford to give much
gratuitous work ; Spencer, of course, took Philosophy ;
my part was to look after Travels and Geography, and
                 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

there were a few others. We subscribed ^ioo each ;
Spencer persuaded a City friend to do a little more in
order to start the concern, so a Limited Liability

Company was formed, and the newspaper was called

The Reader. It was an amusing experience, owing to
Mr. B.'s insistence, from a commercial point of view,
about the necessity of obtaining advertisements by all
sorts of ingenious means, but some of which, in our
opinions, were not quite above-board. Then it was
brought home to us that, as our venture was one of

limited liability, whatever we bought must be paid
for at once, while what we were to receive would not
be paid for many months. We were like children in
the hands of Mr. B., who knew all the ins and outs
of the commercial conditions of success, concerning
which we were almost childishly ignorant. The

newspaper proved dull, notwithstanding some really
good articles. The management was naturally too
amateurish ; promised articles were delayed, and the
time of the committee was too much wasted in

 frequent discussions about first principles, upon which
 Spencer loved to dilate. So The Reader did not
 thrive. Its expenditure exceeded its incomings, our
 reserve fund melted away, and the newspaper came
 to an end after about a year's existence. We each
 lost our hundred pounds, but no more, and had gained
 an unexpected view of the seamy side of journalistic

 enterprise.
                  CHAPTER XIII

                            SOCIAL LIFE

       Interesting visits -- Explorers of those days -- Other notabilities
                                                and friends

ENTRIES in old diaries recall many pleasant
           social meetings at home, whether dinners,
breakfasts, or simple gatherings of friends, where
there was generally some traveller or other lion of
the day whom people were glad to meet. I made
occasional excursions to visit Charles Darwin at
Down, usually at luncheon- time, always with a sense
of the utmost veneration as well as of the warmest
affection, which his invariably hearty greeting greatly
encouraged. I think his intellectual characteristic
that struck me most forcibly was the aptness of his
questionings ; he got thereby very quickly to the
bottom of what was in the mind of the person he
conversed with, and to the value of it.

     I enjoyed two interesting visits to Lord Ashburton
at the Grange, under the presidency of the first and
second Lady Ashburton respectively. Carlyle was a
guest on both occasions. On my first meeting him

he surprised me by his unexpectedly courteous and
even polished manner, but he became more like
his ordinary self later on. On the second occasion
he seemed to me the greatest bore that a house
170 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

could tolerate. He had a well-known story then to
the fore, which W. H. Brookfield (1 809-1 874), who

was a very constant guest, told me he had indulged
in five times that day already, and undertook that

he should repeat it for my benefit a sixth time, which
he did. Then Carlyle raved about the degeneracy
of the modern English without any facts in justifica
tion, and contributed nothing that I could find to the
information or pleasure of the society. He, however,

executed a performance with great seriousness which

was decidedly funny, by hopping gravely on one leg
up and down within the pillars of the portico, which
he had discovered to be a prompt way of warming

himself in the then chilly weather.
     It is difficult to select events out of the very

many that were then interesting to me. One was
a visit to Mr. Webb at Newstead Abbey, the old
home of the poet Lord Byron, which he had recently
purchased. Mr. Webb had been a first-class African
sportsman, of whom mention will be made in the

next chapter in connection with the identification
of Dr. Livingstone's remains. The mementoes of
Lord Byron at Newstead Abbey were well cared
for, and most touching to me, for I had in my
youth an unlimited admiration of his works ; so I
drank greedily with my eyes all that I saw con
nected with him. I will here anticipate very many
years, and mention a tragedy that occurred only two

autumns ago to Lord Byron's grandson and repre
sentative, Lord Lovelace. My niece, who has
managed my home since the death of my wife, spent

a few summer weeks with me in the pretty village

of Ockham. The night before leaving it to return
                   SOCIAL LIFE                                      171

home to London we were invited to Ockham Park

after tea-time, for a quiet farewell call. Lord

Lovelace was exceptionally agreeable, the conversa

tion was general, and the evening passed by most

pleasantly. It had been arranged that his carriage

should take us back ; he accompanied us toIt                        and

                                                       it,
wished us good-bye in the most friendly and courteous

manner. No one outside his household, and very

few of these, saw him again alive.  appeared that

he dressed himself for dinner, and after coming down
stairs fell dead on the floor.

        saw much of Richard, afterwards Sir Richard,
I
Burton and of Lawrence Oliphant in those days.
                ;
There were exceedingly pleasant social gatherings held
after each meeting of the Geographical Society of

geographers and others, who were invited by Admiral
Murray to his rooms the Albany. He was an ex
                   in
                                                   a
cellent host, and justly popular among great variety
of men whom he had the tact to bring harmoniously

together in his chambers. Bishop Wilberforce, who

prided himself on worldly savoir faire, was occasionally

a guest Burton was habitually there, but his usual
conversation in those days was not exactly of stamp
                           I
suitable to episcopal society.     I

                                                              it a
                                    was present at the

first introduction of these two men, whose behaviour

was most comic, each trying to act the part appro

priate to the other, and,  must add, doing                          most

successfully, and to all appearance quite naturally.

Burton was a great reader, generally to be seen at

the Athenaeum with a folio volume before him, and

he was a prodigious note-taker during his travels.

He lent me his notebook on Zanzibar, of which
                                I
                                                                I
shall shortly speak again, and was astonished at
172 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

the variety and amount of information he had written

in in his small, clear handwriting.
I it,
      ILawrence Oliphant had a most winning manner

and a marvellous facility of expression.         have
                                          I
served on more Council meetings than could easily
                                                      is
be reckoned, and am only too familiar with the often

recurring difficulty of finding a phrase that shall cover
just as much of the question under discussion as

generally accepted, without touching any part on

which there    disagreement. Oliphant had the art
               It is
of hitting upon the appropriate phrase on theseI

occasions more deftly and aptly than any one elsea

whom can remember. We worked together most

pleasantly as joint secretaries under the presidency
of John Crawfurd, the Ethnologist, who nicknamed
us his two sons.

       had the great pleasure of again falling in with
Mansfield Parkyns of Abyssinian fame, at Admiral

Murray's hospitable gatherings.

Among many other distinguished travellers who

were in England during the fifties, should mention
Dr. Barth, who was learned and simple-minded
                                    I

                                                                    I
man. The five volumes of his travels in North Africa

have the merits and demerits of many German books,

being full of information but deterrent in form.

suspect that few Englishmen have read them through

as conscientiously as did. He was a great believer

in the importance of the Hausa language to traders

and settlers.  was then practically unknown even

to professed linguists, so he brought over with him a

bright Hausa boy to help him and others learning
                                          in
                                             it
it. never knew exactly what happened, but seems
I

there was evidence that the boy had expressed a wish
SOCIAL LIFE  173

to go back to Africa, as he well may have done in
moments of temporary depression, whereupon the
zealous secretary of a philanthropic Society threat
ened poor Barth with an action for kidnapping if he
did not send the boy back at once. Barth was

amazed, and sought advice, which was that consider
ing the sectarian bitterness with which the action
would probably be carried on, the ease with which

thoughtless expressions might be twisted into

deliberate words, and the certain cost and tediousness

of legal proceedings, it would be wiser for him to
submit and to send back the boy. This he did with

no little grief, and so all attempt to lexiconise and
grammarise the Hausa language was thrown back for
many years, during which a knowledge of it would
have been of material use in various British opera
tions on the West Coast of Africa.

    A long subsequent attempt was, however, made

with success by a small committee, of whom I was
one and Major Leonard Darwin another, under the
Presidency of Sir George Goldie, through whose
efforts sufficient funds were collected to enable Mr.
Robinson to study the Hausa language seriously and

on the spot. Opportunities for learning it have now

been afforded, and are used at Cambridge by pro
spective military and civil servants in West Africa.

     Mr. Crawfurd (1 783-1 868) was then a vigorous
old man of considerable moral weight and of great
experience, with not a few amusing peculiarities (Sir
Roderick Murchison called him laughingly, in public,
the Objector General). He had been secretary to
Sir Stamford Raffles, and, according to what he told

to me, and I presume also to others, he was the sole
174 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

originator of the idea of making Singapore a free
port, and had trouble in convincing Sir Stamford
that it would be wise to do this. He became its first
Governor, and the descriptions he gave of his multi
farious occupations in that new post, with a very
small staff, were amusing. He established a news
paper and wrote much of it himself. The settlement
quickly grew in size and wealth, and had attained much
importance by the time he retired. He compiled
the first Malay Dictionary and Grammar. Having
failed in England to secure a seat in Parliament, he
engaged heart and soul in Ethnology and Geography,
spoke very frequently at meetings, always with reason,
and he wrote many ethnological papers, all good, but
perhaps few of first rank. He was a very kind and
helpful friend to me. He caught his death illness
through handing ladies to their carriage on the
occasion of one of his Soirees, on a bitter night. He
died believing in his delirium that he was speaking
at the Ethnological Society (since merged into the
Anthropological), to which he was devoted.

     Mr. George Bentham (1800- 1884), the botanist,
was a great friend of Mr. Crawfurd, and he became a
kind friend to myself and to my wife. He was son of
General Bentham, who obtained one of the highest
positions as constructor of ships in the Russian Navy,
and he was nephew to Jeremy Bentham. Mr. George
Bentham was the companion in youth of John Stuart
Mill, of whom he had much to tell. In his early

manhood he took to logic, and wrote an important
paper, in which he pointed out that the distinctiveness
of a certain logical operation in common use had been
overlooked and never received a name. I myself am
                           SOCIAL LIFE

 ignorant of logical subtleties, and repeat the following
 much as a parrot might. He called the operation in
 question the " Quantification of the Predicate." Years
 passed by, during which he abandoned logic and gave
 all his time to systematic botany, for which his logical
 training was helpful. He had been President of the
 Linnaean Society for many years, and his name had
 become familiar to every botanist and dabbler in

botany. At this time a letter in some newspaper (I

 think the Atheneeum) was brought to his notice, in
 which the writer dwelt on the importance of this
 " Quantification of the Predicate." He mentioned
the name of its young author, adding that he had
 taken much pains, in vain, to learn what had become
of him, -- could any reader supply information ?

      Mr. Bentham called one morning in 1880, together
with Sir Joseph (then Mr.) Hooker, to congratulate
me on having just had a whole genus of flowers of
singular beauty called after me by the French

botanist, J. Decaisne (Prof, de Culture, Musde

d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris) [60]. I was amazed,
for I know next to nothing of botany. The story

was this. A beautiful plant had been sent from
Natal to Europe. It was described at Kew as

Hyacinthus Candicans, but M. Decaisne would not
consent to such a denomination. He pointed out
particulars in the plant that hyacinths have not,
and the absence of other particulars that hyacinths
have, and he renamed it. Why he pitched upon
my name for the purpose I do not know, but suppose
that he may have consulted a list of the South African
medallists of the French Geographical Society, and
176 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

not the slightest claim to the honour, but accepted its

bestowal by him and its ratification by our then

greatest botanists, Hooker and Bentham, with

amusement.  Seedsmen still class it among the

hyacinths, saying that they are obliged to have as

few separate headings in their catalogues as possible.
I append a little picture of Galtonia Candicans to

this book as a vignette at the bottom of its last

page.

     Mr. Atkinson (1 799-1 861) had returned with
huge oil paintings from Siberia, which he carried

in rolls on camel back, sometimes tandem-fashion.

His career was strange. He was originally little

more than a quick-witted stone-mason's boy, who

afterwards rose, and then hearing that a design was

to be competed for at St. Petersburg for some

memorial, he drew a design, sent it there, and it

was selected. He thereupon moved to Russia, and

in some mysterious way obtained the confidence of

the Czar Nicholas so completely that Atkinson

received what was most unusual, if not unprecedented,

a free ukase to travel and paint where he would.

Possibly the Czar wished for unbiased and inde

pendent evidence as to certain matters in South
Siberia, and Atkinson may have acted as a secret

agent. He was made much of by persons of the

highest rank in Russia, and he was married in the
Chapel of the British Embassy to an English lady

who had resided in one of the great Russian families

as their companion. She accompanied him in his
great journey. On their arrival in England they

were widely received and welcomed. They took

a picturesque but ramshackle small house and garden,
                          SOCIAL LIFE

called Hawk Cottage, that stood on the old Brompton
Road, nearly opposite to where Bina Gardens now are,
on a spot that had not then passed into the hands
of the builders of streets. They were much visited
by members of the highest Russian nobility and by

many English friends.
     In 1861 Mr. Atkinson died, and his wife applying

to the Treasury for some money due to him, was
met by the astounding assertion, backed by abundant
proof, that she was not legally his wife, inasmuch as
he had been married before he went to Russia to a

lady who was still living in England. To the natural

inquiry why the claim should be now put forward
for the first time, considering the publicity under
which Mr. Atkinson had lived, the reply was that
no news of him had reached the claimant, who
occupied a different grade of society, until intelligence
had been sent to her by a friend of her husband's

death. This tragic termination affected many of us
greatly. We recollected that Atkinson had avoided

bringing his wife (as we thought she was) to the
forefront, and it had been remarked at the time of
the publication of his book of travels that he made
the scantiest references to her, and never used the

word "wife." It was a wonder, and it is so still, how
he dared to settle in London and risk a serious
criminal charge. Friends gathered round Mrs.
Atkinson, as I must still call her, and helped her

in many substantial ways. She afterwards returned
to Russia.

     It was during this time that I made the acquaint
ance of the then Mr., afterwards Sir John Lubbock,
178 MEMORIES OP MY LIFE

Prehistoric Times, and had attracted the friendship
of most of the men of the day who were destined to
become famous in science. His week-end invitations

were always most instructive and grateful. It is

difficult justly to express the value of such oppor

tunities of friendly and unhurried converse. I

received great kindness and much warm welcome

at his house, and was captivated by the ingenuity of

his experiments on ants and bees.

Amongst many friends whose acquaintance I first

made at Sir John Lubbock's was Herbert Spencer,
then struggling with difficulties connected with his

serial publications. They were removed by the

unexpected visit of an American gentleman, with a

gold watch, who made a brief oration to the effect

that Spencer's admirers in America feared the cessation

of his publications in pamphlet form owing to financial

reasons. That they had consequently subscribed and

invested  a (handsome)     sum in his name      in Consols,
and had   further deputed  him -- the speaker
                                               -- to present
the gold watch as a token of their esteem. It was

a touching and cheering event to Spencer, who always

Iwore the watch.        moreover, went well, which was
                          It,

                                 I
not invariably the case with costly presentation

watches in those days.

met Herbert Spencer frequently at the Athen

aeum, and had many conversations with him there.

He was always ready to listen sympathetically to

new views and to express his opinion on them, but

he disliked to argue.               persuaded him once to go

with me to see the Derby, in company with a near

relative of mine who was an Oxford clerical don.

These two were perhaps as incongruous a pair in
           SOCIAL LIFE                            179

some respects as could easily be devised, but they

enjoyed each other's company. All went off quite

well, except that Spencer would not be roused to

enthusiasm by the races. He said that the crowd

of men on the grass looked disagreeable, like flies

on a plate ; also that the whole event was just like
what he had imagined the Derby to be. Still, he

evidently liked the excursion, and notwithstanding

his asseverations at the time to the contrary, he

repeated his experience on at least one subsequent

occasion.

For my own part, I especially enjoy the start of

the horses, for their coats shine so brightly in the

sunshine, the jockeys are so sharp and ready, and the

delays due to false starts give opportunities of seeing

them well. I don't care much for its conclusion, but

I used often after seeing the start to run to the top

of the rising ground between the starting point and

the stand, and sometimes got a good opera-glass view

of much of the finish.

    A curious sight caught my attention on one of

these occasions. I was on the side of the course

that faced the distant stand, and amused myself while

waiting in studying the prevalent tint of the sea of
faces upon it. At length the horses were off, but it

was hot, and I was contented to remain in quiet where

I was. When the horses approached the winning-

post, the prevalent tint of the faces in the great stand

changed notably, and became distinctly more pink

under the flush of excitement.  I wrote a short

notice of the experience in Nature, under my initials,

but have kept no copy and quite forget the year.

I enjoyed the friendship during more than fifty
i8o MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

years of the Hon. George Brodrick, in his later years
Warden of Merton, whose memoirs are probably
known to most of my readers. When I first knew
him he was reputed one of the foremost of those rising
men at Oxford who were contemporaries with my
brother-in-law, Arthur Butler, and among whom was
Goschen. Brodrick became a distinguished journalist,
for many years on the staff of the Times. He had a

strong taste for geography, partly through being sent
in his youth on a long voyage to India and back, for
the sake of his health. Becoming a member of the
Council of the Royal Geographical Society, he gave
important help to the introduction of Geography into

the curriculum of his University. He was always
a warm friend to me, and I enjoyed not a few brief
visits to Merton College when he was established
there as its Warden. His eccentricities were all

amiable, and gave harmless amusement to his friends ;
especially his reluctance in accepting the proferred
Wardenship of Merton, for which his friends thought
he was exactly suited. He, however, considered it
to have a serious drawback in depriving him of the
possibility of a Parliamentary career, to which most
of them considered him unsuited. Moreover, he

had twice been an unsuccessful candidate for a seat

in Parliament. I do not attempt more in these few
lines than to express my grateful remembrance of him,
and my appreciation of his many great qualities,

including a large capacity for steadfast friendships
and a highly religious mind very tolerant of the
differing opinions of others.

    A grateful intimacy grew up between my wife and

myself and Mr. Frederick North of Rougham, in
SOCIAL LIFE  181

 Norfolk, at that time residing as a widower in his

 house at Hastings, for which town he was Member

 of Parliament during many years. His two daughters
 were then with him, the eldest, Miss Marianne North

 (1830- 1 890), widely known for her travels after his
 death, in order to paint flowers in far distant lands with
 scientific accuracy. The building in Kew Gardens was

devised by her friend J. Fergusson (1 808-1 886), the

 writer on architecture, and built to hold her collection ;

she presented it to the Gardens. The younger
 daughter became wife of John Addington Symonds
( 1 840-1893), the well-known critic and writer. My
 wife and I spent very many happy visits to Hastings
 Lodge, where the heartiness of reception and the
amplitude of real comfort without any attempt at
display were remarkable. That valued friendship
towards me still continues in the third generation of

descent from Mr. North.

      I owed to my wife a highly valued intimacy
with Mr. and Mrs. Russell Gurney. The clock
of the latter, which she left me in her Will, is

within two yards of where I am writing this, and I
look back to the lifelong friendships of her and her
husband with no ordinary affection. The portrait of
Mr. Russell Gurney (1 804-1 878) by Watts, which
is in the National Gallery, is extremely like ; it strikes

me, if I may venture on any opinion connected with

Art, as one of the very best in any of our three great
national collections. The portrait of Mrs. Russell
Gurney, also by Watts, which is now in the possession

of her relatives, is rather forced in pose. It is much

to be regretted that no adequate biography has been
written of her. The one which is published dwells
                  MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

too exclusively on the devotional side of her character,
and fails sadly to bring out her originality, charm,
and humour. Like many other persons who are
profoundly religious, she too was perfectly tolerant

of other beliefs than her own if they were genuine

and decorously expressed.

     Her endowment of a Chapel of Rest in the

Bayswater Road has by no means fulfilled her wishes.

Her object was to establish a quiet artistic shelter,

where persons desiring a few minutes' withdrawal
from the turmoil of life, might enter and commune in
quiet with themselves. She obtained a disused chapel,
and arranged for its maintenance. Then she took
great pains over the designs that were to be painted
on the walls in fresco. When these were sufficiently

advanced, she, long since a widow and in rapidly
declining health, invited many friends to its opening.

My wife and I were rather late, and I can see now

the sweet welcoming gesture with which she beckoned

us up to her on the platform. We never saw her

again. She lingered on, unwilling, or unable, to see
any even of her oldest friends, and at length died.
The Chapel of Rest remained unfinished for some

years. It is little used, and can, or could, be entered

only at specified hours.

     As to Mr. Russell Gurney, who served on many

important commissions, he twice refused a judgeship,
preferring to retain his post of " Recorder" of the City
of London, which is of nearly equal dignity to a
judgeship, and did not at that time preclude its holder
 from sitting in Parliament. He was member for
 Southampton. I have known no one who struck me
 as a more just, searching, and yet kindly judge, or
SOCIAL LIFE  183

whom I would more willingly be tried by if I fell into

trouble.

     It was to my wife, also, that I owed the friendship

of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hollond of Stanmore. She

was exceptionally gifted by nature with grace,
sympathy, artistic taste, and many other high qualities.

Her portrait, by Scheffer, is in the Tate Gallery. Her

face closely corresponded to his imaginary ideal when
painting St. Augustine and Monica, so he enjoyed
the opportunity of painting Mrs. Hollond's own por
trait. She was even more at home in France than

in England, and intimate with many distinguished
statesmen of the Orleanist party. Her husband's
wealth gave her great facilities for cultivating her
aesthetic tastes to the full. He was chiefly known to
the public at one time as subsidiser of the " Nassau "
balloon, which carried him, Green the famous
aeronaut, and, I think, Mr., afterwards Lord Justice,
James (who was an old friend of his), and two others.
They sailed from London to a town in Nassau ;

which was at that time by far and away a record
distance for a balloon to drift. Numerous memorial

pictures of that adventure were in his house.

     It was in the middle fifties that my friendship
commenced with William Spottiswoode (1825- 1883),
one of the most capable and true-hearted of men, who
became President of the Royal Society, and now lies
buried in Westminster Abbey, "at the request alike
of the foremost of his countrymen in Church and
State, in Science, Art and Literature, and of his own

workmen, to whose best interests his life had been

devoted." This is the singularly apt inscription on

his tombstone. I asked Dean Bradley, then Dean of
1 84 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Westminster, if he knew who was its author. He
replied, " Myself." It is to be regretted that no good
biography exists of W. Spottiswoode. Many notices

were published at his death, and it gratified me to
learn that one which I wrote for the Royal
Geographical Society on one aspect of his many-
sided character greatly pleased his family and some

of his intimate friends.

     The main features of his life were that he was the
son of the then Queen's Printer, of good Scottish
family, and the presumed heir to a considerable
fortune. He went to Oxford, where he obtained the

University Scholarship in mathematics, and where
also intelligence reached him of the entire collapse of
his father's fortune through unwise speculation. He
braced himself to the occasion, and, after many years
of hard work, himself succeeding his father as Queen's
Printer, he created a model business on the largest
scale, and rehabilitated the lost fortune. In the

meantime he had sufficient spare energy to occupy
himself day by day with congenial pursuits in
literature and science. Among other diversions he
loved to travel considerable distances during the
few weeks he annually allowed himself for vacation,
and to acquire much knowledge of other countries in
that way. Enormously worked as he was, he always
seemed to have leisure, and he did with thoroughness
whatever he undertook.

    At this time there was still much ignorance con

cerning the northern part of the peninsula of Sinai,

especially of the plain of El Tih, and he suggested

to me that by making judicious preparations its survey
might be accomplished within the short space of time
SOCIAL LIFE  185

that he could afford. I agreed to join him. We
worked hard to prepare ourselves, and made a large
sketch map, on which notes of every important
traveller bearing on the part in which we were

interested were entered at the locality they referred

to. It was desirable for him to have some experience
in surveying, and as I was going to the Isle of Wight,
we agreed to practise there. The first and only
attempt had an absurd ending. We found a strongly

railed field suitable for a commencement, into which

we got by climbing the fence, and prepared to

unpack, not particularly noticing the cattle in it ; but
one of them was a bull, who, after the manner of such

animals, advanced in so threatening and determined
a manner that we had to retreat from the brute as

best we could.

     This proved to be the end of our joint experiments,
for I was taken ill with what seemed at first to be

only a very bad sore throat, but which developed into
a singular form of quinsy of a dangerous character.

My old friends, Mr. Hodgson and Dr. Todd, were

unremitting in their attentions, and told me afterwards
that they were on the point of having my windpipe

opened, as I was nearly suffocating. At last, an

abscess which was situated in a gland on the upper
surface of the tongue, but far back near its root, broke,
and I breathed freely. I was soon able to swallow,
and gradually became convalescent, but Mr. Hodgson
peremptorily forbade further thoughts of Sinai. I

shall have to refer again to W. Spottiswoode.
     It has happened to me more than once to be nearly

suffocated, and to have been surprised at the absence
of that gasping desire for air that one feels when the
            MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

breath is suddenly checked. A very little seems

sufficient to divert attention from that desire, and to

leave the sense only of being  ill  and on the point of

swooning. My chief experiences may seem hardly

credible they were due to a fancy of mine to obtain
          ;
distinct vision when diving. The convex eyeball
           I
stamps a concave lensIIa      the water, whose effect has
                          in
to be neutralised by convex lens. This has to be
very " strong," because the refractive power of a lens

is  greatly diminished by immersion in water. My

first experiment was in bath, using the two objectives
                       a

of my opera-glass in combination, and with some

success.    then had spectacles made for me, which       I

described at the British Association in 1865 [19].
With these          could read the print of newspaper
                              it
perfectly under water, when                           a
                               was held at the exact

distance of clear vision, but the range of clear vision

was small.          amused myself very frequently with

this new hobby, and being most interested in the act

of reading, constantly forgot that was nearly suffo
                              It

                                          I
cating myself, and was recalled to the fact not by any

gasping desire for breath, but purely by a sense of

illness, that alarmed me.      disappeared immediately

after raising the head out of water and inhaling two

or three good whiffs of air.

    Mr. Alexander Macmillan asked me in the later

fifties to undertake the editorship of a volume to be

called Vacation Tourists [11], which would be repeated
annually the venture succeeded. His view was
          if

                                                                                              Ia
that many able young men travelled every summer,

each of whom would have enough to say to make

good article, and that a collection of their contributions

would suffice for an interesting annual volume.
                   SOCIAL LIFE                                                                  187

consented, and found the occupation very agreeable,

for it put me into pleasant communication with many

whom it was a privilege to know, but excision was
often an unwelcome duty. Thus among the many
contributions offered for one of the volumes, I had

thirteen separate descriptions of sea-sickness. The

venture paid its way, but no more, and was dis

continued after the third volume.

    A total eclipse visible in Spain occurred on July 18,

1860, and the Government lent their magnificent

transport the Himalaya to those who were selected
to observe by and under the leadership of the then
Astronomer- Royal, Mr., afterwards Sir George, Airy
            it,
(1801-1892).       applied, and was granted permission
                I

to join. We went with great comfort and speed, first

to Bilbao, where small parties, of whom mine of four
persons was one, were landed. The rest went on to

Santander.

     Careful preparations had been made in Spain for
our comfort, as few of us knew a word of the language,

and serious obstructions due to intolerance might
otherwise have occurred for want of timely explanation.
These excellent arrangements were entirely due to

the forethought of Mr. Vignolles, a famous contractor

for railways, who was then occupied with those of
Spain. One of his many subordinates was allotted

as interpreter to each small party ours proved to be
a
                                                          a

                                                                                             ;
most agreeable guide and informant. The position

allotted to our party was in the neighbourhood of

Logrono, whither we proceeded at once in order to

study the neighbourhood and to select a suitable spot.
This was quickly found on a picturesque hill called
La Guardia, crowned with
                          convent and village,
                  MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

which lay in the central line of totality, and commanded
a grand view of the plain over which the shadow of
the coming eclipse would sweep.

     Thanks to the diplomacy of our interpreter, we
obtained permission to use the flat roof of one of the

highest houses, where we established ourselves on
the morning of the eventful day. I had nursed with
great care an instrument to observe the delicate

variations of temperature. It was the invention of
Sir John Herschel (i 792-1871), who instructed me in

its use, but its construction was so fragile that hardly
any traveller had as yet been able to take one of them

uninjured to its destination. I was no more fortunate
than my predecessors, for the long stem of the heavy
mercurial bulb broke. It was impossible to feel as
unhappy as I ought to have been, because it left me
free to gaze at will at the coming great sight.

     And a wonderful sight it was, when the pure
luminous corona first displayed itself at the moment of
totality. It has been one of the great sights of my
life. I made rude sketches in the dim light, and
afterwards found that the closest representation of the

eclipse was to be obtained by blackening paper over

a candle and scratching out the lights, on the principle
of mezzotints. I published a description of the eclipse
in Vacation Tourists, with a sketch that has been

reproduced more than once, but the curl given to one
of the rays of the corona was not credited by most of

my fellow-observers. Thus Sir George Airy, when
lecturing on the eclipse at the Royal Institution and

exhibiting my sketch on the screen, expressed in the
most courteous way some reservation as to its accept

ance as a true rendering. Photographs of subsequent
                          SOCIAL LIFE

eclipses have, however, shown that curved rays are a

reality.
     From Spain I went by diligence to Bordeaux,

meeting my wife at the station on her arrival from
Paris, and we started for a tour in the Pyrenees and
for a stay of some weeks at Luchon. Here I became
for the first time bitten with the mania for mountain

climbing. As during a few years previously the

primary purpose of fences had seemed to be to afford
objects for leaping over, so now that of mountains
seemed to be for clambering. Mr. Charles Packe,
who was an authority on the mountains and botany of
the locality, often accompanied me, and the outings
were enjoyed excessively. Among other things, I
was immensely taken by the sleeping-bag that each
French soldier carries who watches the mountain

passes through which Spanish smugglers try to steal.

It is worn on the back like a heavy knapsack. These

bags are made of sheep-skin with the wool inside.
On cold days the soldiers sit inside them, pulling the
bag up to their waists. They are thus able to keep
their posts in trying weather, which smugglers would
otherwise have been ready to utilise for their own
purposes. I tried the efficiency of one on an interest

ing night. A heavy storm was gathering, but before

the evening closed and before the storm broke, I
had time to find a good place on a hill some
 1000 feet or more above Luchon, and there to await

it inside my bag. Nothing could have been more
theatrically grand. The thunder - clouds and the
vivid lightning were just above me, accompanied by
deluges of rain. Then they descended to my level,
and the lightning crackled and crashed about, then
igo MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

all the turmoil sank below, leaving a starlit sky

above.

     Sleeping-bags were customary in the Pyrenees.
Mr. George Bentham told me that when he botanised
in the little Republic of Andorre some years

previously, there was not a bed in the place, and he

was lent a sleeping-bag. They were familiar to

Arctic travellers,but had not been thought of by Alpine
climbers, so I published my experiences. In conse
quence, at an amusing dinner of the Alpine Club, of

which I was a member for a few years,  I was toasted
by Mr. Wm. Longman as the greatest     " bagman " in
Europe. It is very difficult to arrange any sleeping

gear that shall satisfy those who rough it rarely.
Luxury is out of place. I read in some well-known

book that one of the Camerons of Lochiel, when

bivouacking with his son in the snow, noticed that

the lad had rolled up a snowball to make a pillow.

He thereupon rose and kicked it away, saying sternly,
" No effeminacy, boy."

     Bears were not infrequent. We reached, I think

it was Cauteret, after passing a small plantation near

the town. During the table d'hote there was a rush

to the windows to see the dead body of a big bear

cub which had just been killed at that very plantation.

a

                      I

                                                   it,
                                                          it
                                                                I

                                                              I
Its mother, who was with  escaped.                                 often saw

their human-like tracks. They occasionally kill oxen.

Once, when near a cattle station, while watching the

cattle returning home in file, each in its turn executed
  fantastic sort of war-dance as passed a particular

spot, such as  had frequently, but by no means

invariably, witnessed in Africa, when a line of my

cattle passed over the place where had shot an ox
SOCIAL LIFE                     191

for food. In this instance the performance was due to

a cow having quite recently been killed by a bear.
The effect of the smell of blood on oxen and horses is

apparently capricious, being sometimes very marked
indeed, at other times nil. Horses are frequently
terrified by the smell of large wild beasts, but I have
helped to skin a lion in full sight of my horse, and
rolling the skin up, tied it in a bundle to the back of
my saddle, without the horse showing the slightest

objection.

     My late but passionate love for mountaineering

was one cause that subsequently brought me into

frequent contact with Professor Tyndall (1 820-1 893),
who was then at his very best physically and mentally.
He, I, and Vaughan Hawkins (1833- 1908), an eminent
classic in his Harrow and Cambridge days and of first

rank in mountaineering, made a tour together in

Cornwall. We chose our way on Tyndall's principle,

that it is easy to find difficult places to climb else

where than in the high mountains. Certainly he
was skilful at discovering them. One of his freaks

sent my heart into my mouth. It was at a gully,

strewn deeply with loose stones that led over a sea
cliff. Down he dashed, the stones were all set in

motion like an avalanche, but somehow he extricated
himself in time and got clear to one side of them.

At another place an isolated needle or cone of rock

was separated from the shore by a narrow strait
through which the sea swirled, but which could be

leapt at low water. We leapt and clambered up,
he declaring that was as difficult a bit of rock-work
as he had ever been on. We reached the top and
got back successfully, jump and all, to the mainland,
it
                           it,
192 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

where I was glad to feel in safety. The Irish dash
in Tyndall's blood gave a charm to all he did. He

was then fast rising, but had not yet reached the

fulness of his subsequent height in popular reputation,
which is perhaps the time in the mental develop
ment of a man at which his character shows at its

brightest.

     My wife and I found a frequent travelling-com
panion in Miss Brandram, afterwards the wife and
subsequently the widow of A. MacLennan, the writer
on various phases of prehistoric societies, Marriage

by Capture, Totems, etc. She was a great friend to
both of us ; a companion and kind nurse to my wife

when she was ill, an excellent walking companion to
myself, and always ready to be of service. She helped
me much in revising some of my earlier writings,

especially the last edition of my Art of Travel.

     During her widowhood Mrs. MacLennan travelled

with us again, but at last a disaster occurred at a time
when we were living at Cimiez, above Nice. There
is a high-level railway from Nice to Grasse that
passes the little station of the Saut de Loup, a

waterfall about an hour's walk (I think) from the
station, which we wanted much to see. The foot

path runs along a hillside and is perfectly good, but
too narrow for two persons to walk abreast. In more

than one place a streamlet cascades over      Near its
is
                              it,

                                         it.
destination the path crossed by a more considerable

streamlet running among stones, that make stepping-

stones near enough to the surface to prevent the feet

being much wetted while crossing and which any
one accustomed to mountain walking would trip over
without remark. The pathway was broader at this
SOCIAL LIFE  193

point, and the stream after crossing it fell into a pre
cipice, at the bottom of which ran the river Loup.
Mrs. MacLennan was walking first, and, owing to
some strange accident, missed a stone or tripped, and

fell heavily on her side, where she lay motionless in

the water as though shot dead. I helped her to rise,
but she was in great pain. It was difficult to set her

on her feet, for the position was not one to stagger
safely in, the precipice being much too near.

     With great pluck, she went a few steps onward to

see the fall, and then the long return walk had to be

achieved. She was confined for a long time to bed,

and far from fit to travel when she left us. The

injury was followed by an internal complaint, of which,
after much suffering at her own home, she died.

     Few have been more thorough in their friendship
to my wife and myself than Sir Rutherford and Lady
Alcock and her daughter by a previous marriage,
Miss Lowder, now Lady Pelly. I was well acquainted
with much of Sir Rutherford's work in China and
Japan before I had the pleasure of knowing him
personally, because the Foreign Office used to forward
those of his dispatches that were of geographical
interest to the Royal Geographical Society, where,
for want of a better person, they were generally
referred to myself. Sir Rutherford's life was event
ful ; first as an army surgeon in Spain under Sir
De Lacy Evans, then Consul in China, then our first

Minister in Japan, then Ambassador to China. Lady
Alcock seconded him in charge of the well - being
of his large staff, with a kindliness that was pro
verbial. On their return to England they became

social favourites from the highest in rank to the

               13
194 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

lowest, being singularly acceptable through their own
attractive qualities, and widely known through reports
of their largely unostentatious charitable acts. Sir
Rutherford was President of the Royal Geographical
Society for the usual term, and we saw much of him
and his family at various times, eating our Christmas
dinner with them on three or four occasions.

     Of many pleasant meetings I will only mention
one, when we, in company with Sir Lewis and Lady

Pelly, made an interesting tour in the South of France
from Royat, by that curious natural formation Mont-
pelier le Vieux, round to Avignon. The valley of the
Tarn had recently been made accessible to tourists,
and I was particularly desirous of seeing its wonders,
so our party stopped at Millau to give me an oppor
tunity of going to the Tarn River for a long day by

myself. First some distance had to be travelled by

railroad, then some miles by a two-wheeled vehicle

across the bare Causses, a high limestone upland, down
to the beautifully clear Tarn. Every shower that falls
on the Causses percolates through deep "swallows,"
and finds its way for perhaps 2000 feet vertically
through them, issuing from the cliffs as feeders of
pure water to the little river.

     I was put into a flat-bottomed boat with stalwart

boatmen fore and aft, and so dropped down stream.

The water was at first so shallow and transparent as
to be scarcely visible. The boat seemed to be buoyed
in the air above the clean, shingly bottom. So we

glided down hour after hour, with vast cliffs on either
side clothed sparsely with pre-Rafaelite-looking trees,
and with an occasional eagle soaring in the blue sky
overhead. Then the river by slow degrees grew
SOCIAL LIFE  195

broader, deeper, and swifter, and swirled formidably

in places, requiring much caution in the boatmen ;
the evening closed in while we had still some way

to go. It was not altogether pleasant, as the punt was

not particularly "stiff," the navigation was difficult,

and it was becoming very dark. At length the

welcome bridge which betokened our destination
loomed high in front. The party from Millau had

been there awaiting me till dark, and then left. I

was fortunate in securing a trap, wherein to drive

the few miles that then separated me from them.
     We all went together the next day to Montpelier

le Vieux, so called because its rocks look from a distance

like the turrets of a weird city on a hilltop. Each rock
stands by itself on a carpet of green verdure. Crowds
of legends have, of course, clustered round this strange
locality. Anyhow, it is an ideal place for a picnic in
which to spend the long hours of a sunny day. The
whole of the south-west corner of France is full of

interest, and the part just mentioned seems quite

unique.

     I wish I could more adequately and yet appro

priately have expressed my affectionate feelings
towards the many friends to whom I have made too

scanty reference in this chapter.
     During the year that followed the death of my

wife in 1897, I made a tour with one of her nephews,
A. Frank Butler, son of Spencer P. Butler. He be
came engaged to an English lady, a niece of Mrs.
MacLennan, while we were touring in Corsica with

her party, and married shortly after. Henceforward
a niece, Miss Evelyne Biggs, or more strictly speaking
a grandniece of my own, granddaughter of my sister
196 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Lucy, has lived with me as companion, and I have
followed a somewhat similar routine of life, except in
being no longer advised by the doctor to try cures,
the best means of securing health now being to
escape a winter in London.

     Yearly Medallions. -- My fancy had been taken long

ago by a custom of certain North American Indians,
of naming years, each after some characteristic event
that had occurred in it.1 It appears that an annual con
sultation of Indian chiefs was held, at which the more

striking occurrences of the past year were reviewed and

one selected as its representative. Thereupon an I ndian

who was reputed for skill in drawing made a picture

or symbol of the event on his buffalo-skin robe. They

are as rude in conception and execution as                           an English
                                                                     the " small
cphoixldyoefarfi"veisyseyamrsboolldicamllyighetxpdrreaswse.d  Thus   elementary
                                                              by an

     1 Photographs of the North American Indians. By Garrick Mallery, from
the Fourth Annual Report of the Museum of Ethnology, Washington, Govern
ment Printing Office, 1886.
SOCIAL LIFE  197

design of the head, body, and four limbs of a man

dotted over with spots. A robe exists (see page
88-89 °f the memoir) in which a sequence of seventy-

one years is thus recorded in symbols spirally arranged

upon it ; it was made by a certain Dacota Indian,

called Lone Dog.
     I adopted this method to illustrate the events of my

own life during part of the time while my wife was

Istill living, but they are too rude for publication.

therefore give recent specimens of these medallions
drawn by my niece, which refer to two of the years

after she had become my companion.
     The picture of 1900 is a view on the Nile, and that

of 1903 contains the insignia of the late Pope, in
memory of a function in Rome at which we were
present ; also a picture of the breeding-place of sea birds
at the Farn Islands, Northumberland, which we visited.

The legends round these medallions hardly require
explanation, except that An. Photo, stands for Animal
Photography. They are -- 1900, An. Photo., Venice,
Greece, Boer War, Egypt. 1903, Rome, Ischia, Farn
Isles, Peppard.

    A main reason for giving so full a description of

such trifling matters is that the Dacota method may
be serviceable in more than one way. It suggests
an excellent plan for competition in Art schools,
where the choice of two or three characteristics of

some particular year might be submitted to the

students, and prizes given to those who designed the

most appropriate medallions.
                      CHAPTER XIV

                 GEOGRAPHY AND EAST AFRICA

           Burton and Speke -- Speke and Grant -- Death of Speke --
               Livingstone and Stanley -- Geographical incidents

     HE travels of the successive explorers of Eastern

  A Africa who started from the Zanzibar Coast
were watched by geographers with the keenest interest.
I was in one way or another somewhat closely con
nected with the principal actors, and may therefore
speak about them with propriety. The information
that first drew general attention to this part of Africa
was the startling announcement that a snow-topped
mountain, Kilimandjaro, had been seen from a distance
by the missionaries Krapf and Rebmann on their
journeys from Mombas, where they were stationed.

Their information was fiercely criticised. It was

disbelieved wholly by some, and only partially

credited by many others. In addition to this, the
missionaries had transmitted reports of a vast Central
African lake, based on the collated testimonies of
many native travellers. Mr. Erhardt communicated a
memoir on this lake to the Royal Geographical Society,

and I, who had most to do with their then newly
 established Proceedings, had it with its accompanying
 map inserted in one of its early numbers. The map was
 an amazing production and very hypothetical, but the
GEOGRAPHY AND EAST AFRICA  199

data from which it was constructed made it clear

that an exploration of those regions would be a
highly promising undertaking. I myself had been
strongly urged to investigate the neighbourhood of

Kilimandjaro, but felt insufficiently restored to health
to undertake the task. An expedition was at length

set on foot in 1856 under the command of Captain

Burton (1821-1890), with J. H. Speke (1827-1864)

as second, for which I myself drafted the instructions.
It accomplished great things, namely, the discovery of
the two lakes, Tanganyika and Victoria Nyanza, but
at the painful cost of a serious breach of friendship
between its leaders. Burton was a man of eccentric

genius and tastes, orientalised in character and
thoroughly Bohemian. He was a born linguist, and

ever busy in collecting minute information as to

manners and habits. Speke, on the other hand, was

a thorough Briton, conventional, solid, and resolute.

Two such characters were naturally unsympathetic.
On reaching Tanganyika, Burton became seriously
                 it

                      ;

                                          a
                                                                             ;
                                                                            ill
and temporarily unfitted for travel his eyes, too, were
badly inflamed and gave him great trouble. Princi

pally owing to Burton's restless spirit of inquiry, the

existence and position of the lake now known as the
Victoria Nyanza had been ascertained. Burton was

unable to go to  therefore Speke went as his deputy,

and so came upon what was suspected by him, and
has proved afterwards to be headwater of the Nile.

Of course Speke got the credit, for without him the

lake would not have then been reached, but the dis

appointment to Burton at being superseded in solving
the problem of ages by discovering the source of the

Nile was very bitter and very natural. Burton
200 MEMORIES OE MY LIFE

brought back, as purely his own work, a most
elaborate account of all the tribes he had met by

the way, the close accuracy of which has been testified

to by succeeding travellers. Only one of his numerous
notebooks came under my own careful examination,
as already mentioned, and I was astonished at its

minuteness. I may mention the occasion, which was

this.

     The Society for the Propagation of the Gospel
were considering the propriety of establishing a

mission station at Zanzibar, and desired fuller

information about the island than they possessed.

In the end they invited me to give a lecture, to which
I consented, after talking with Burton, who had been

asked and refused, but who very kindly offered me

the full use of his original notebook written when in

Zanzibar. An elaborate account which he had based

on it for publication had been lost. I had no first

hand information about the place, but had known
Erhardt and others who knew it well, so was able

to compile a respectable description, which was
published in the Mission Field, June i, 1861.
The notes made by Burton were written in a fine

clear hand and most elaborate in detail. He told me

that he often used a board with parallel wires, such as

are made for the use of the blind, to write notes,

unseen, in the night-time.

     The next expedition was under Captain Speke,

with whom Captain Grant (182 7- 1892) was associ
ated. They were to take up the quest at the

point on the Victoria Nyanza where Speke had
                    and to travel onwards. This was done,
reachedI

               it,
and may say that the attachment of Grant to
GEOGRAPHY AND EAST AFRICA                                                20 1

Speke was most remarkable for its loyalty and

intensity. They were fine manly fellows, and I

can see them now in my mind's eye, as they came

to take a final leave, when I knocked two nails

into the side of a cupboard as they stood side by

side with their backs to to mark their respective
is
      it

                                      it,
                                             a
                                                 it,
                                                                      I
heights and as a memento of them when away.
As well known, they followed the Nile, not

however without a break, from the Lake into Egypt.
This break,
" Mountains  and the hypothetical placement                            of the
             of the Moon," whose position                              Speke

saw reason to modify in          second map, gave an

opening to criticism of which bitter use was made.

Coming down the Nile, Speke and Grant met

Captain, afterwards Sir Samuel, Baker (1821-1893)
and his large party going up     and were able to

give him timely and valuable information.                                do

not speak more of Sir Samuel's magnificent work,

because did not fall closely within my own ken,
but will conclude what has to be said about Burton

and Speke.
     In the year 1864 the British Association met at

Bath, at which Burton was to read a paper severely

criticising Speke's work. Speke was staying in the

neighbourhood with a shooting party, and was invited

to take part in the discussion.  It       the custom that

                                      is

on each morning, a little before the President and

Committee of the several Sections of the British

Association take their seats, they meet in a separate

room to discuss matters that require immediate settle

ment, and to select the papers that are to be read on

the following day. On the present occasion this
business had been finished, and Sir James Alexander
202 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

was urging that the Council of the Association should

be requested by the Committee to bring Captain
Speke's services to the notice of Government and to

ask for their appropriate recognition, when a mes

senger brought a letter for the President, Sir
Roderick Murchison. He motioned to the Secretary,

who was seated at his left hand, to read     while he,
                                             It it,
the President, continued to attend to Sir James.
The countenance of the Secretary clearly showed     in
                                                                  s
that the letter contained serious news. Sir James
Alexander went on speaking, the letter was in the

meantime circulated and read by each in turn, in

cluding Captain Burton, who sat opposite to me, and
   got the last, or almost the last of all before the
I
           it         was to say that Speke had accidentally
                  It
President.

shot himself dead, by drawing his gun after him while

getting over a hedge.

      Burton had many great and endearing qualities,
with others of which perhaps the most curious was

his pleasure in dressing himself, so to speak, wolf

clothing, order to give an idea that he was worse
            in

                              I
than he really was.              attended his funeral at the

Roman Catholic Cemetery near Sheen.          had been

arranged by his widow, Lady Burton, a devoted

Catholic, and was crowded with her Catholic friends.

did not see more than three geographers among
I
                    I

                                          I

                                       It
them, of whom Lord Northbrook, a former President

of the Society, was one. From pure isolation, we

two kept together the whole time. There were none

of Burton's old associates.                  was a ceremony quite

alien to anything that could conceive him to

care for.

Anyhow, was glad to be instrumental in pro
          GEOGRAPHY AND EAST AFRICA         203

curing a Government Pension of ^300 a year for
Lady Burton, and in this way. At a meeting of the
Council of the Royal Geographical Society, Sir

Mountstuart E. Grant Duff, the then President, said

that private information had reached him (of which
he mentioned some details) that Government would
be disposed to grant a pension to Lady Burton if a

good case could be made out relating to Burton's

services to science, and if the Council of the Society

were to back it. Would any one undertake to carry
this through ? No one answered, so he addressed
himself to me personally, asking if I would. I

expressed a cordial desire to help, but feeling at the
moment too ignorant of the views of competent

authorities concerning Burton's linguistic knowledge

(on which much emphasis had been laid), and of
much else that might with advantage be advanced

in his favour, was unable to answer off-hand, but

willingly undertook to inquire and report. This I
did, asking the opinions of many, with the result that
Burton's knowledge of vernacular Arabic and other

languages was considered to be unequalled, but not

his classical knowledge of them, and that it was better

to rest his claims on his wide discursiveness rather

than on any one specified performance. I followed
this advice, and my Report formed the basis of the

proposed application, which in due course gained its

end. My own acquaintance with Lady Burton was

slight, and my memories of her husband refer chiefly

to his unmarried days.

Several of us subscribed to have a public memorial

of Speke, and obtained a plot in Kensington Gardens

          it.                               the form of an obelisk,

              It

                                        in
to place  now stands
204 MEMORIES OP MY LIFE

by the side of the broad gravel walk leading north
wards from the Albert Memorial. There was much

difficulty in selecting an inscription which should not
arouse criticism, for there were still those who main

tained with Burton that Speke had not discovered
the true source of the Nile. Lord Houghton solved

the difficulty by simplifying the proposed legend to
"Victoria Nyanza and the Nile," which words the

obelisk now bears.

      Speke, Burton, Grant, Baker, Livingstone, and
Stanley are all gone ; I wish it could be arranged to
make a joint and interesting memorial of our great
African explorers in the plot where Speke's obelisk

now stands in neglected solitariness. It would not

require more than two or three extra yards on either
side, parallel to the Grand Walk, and the same in
depth, to give room for this, and to allow of the
growth of a few hardy plants suggestive of tropical
vegetation, with pathways between them. England
has done so very much for African geography that
she ought to bring the fact home to the national
conscience. When Burton died, and again when
Stanley died, I made the suggestion that a memorial
should be erected by the side of that of Speke, or
that appropriate inscriptions should be added, but
I heard on good authority that it would be most
distasteful to the representatives of both Speke and
Grant to do so. Many long years have since passed,
and it may be hoped that hard feelings will soften in
time and permit what many like myself would con
sider a laudable and pious act.

     I have mentioned the names of Livingstone and
Stanley, and here again I have something to say.
GEOGRAPHY AND EAST AFRICA                       205

The popular opinion has been that Livingstone was

left to his fate without adequate care on the part of

his countrymen to succour him, and that he was

rescued owing to the zeal of the proprietor of an

American newspaper and the hardihood of his

employee, Mr., afterwards Sir Henry, Stanley.
     I was on the Council of the Royal Geographical

Society during all the time in question, and can

testify to our extreme desire to help Livingstone,

but in his later years he had become difficult to

meddle with. He had a brusque resentment against

anything that might be construed into patronage,

feeling, as  I  understood, that  he had been   over-much
" exploited  "  by his admirers.                great fear
                                     There was

among those in the Council who knew him better

than I did, that he might be annoyed at any attempt

to relieve him, and would resent it yet more bitterly

than Emin Bey subsequently resented Stanley's com

pulsory relief. Again, there was no reason to

suppose Livingstone to be in serious want. He was

thoroughly accustomed to natives of the widely

dispersed Bantu race, among whom he probably then

was. He travelled without a large party or other

encumbrance, so that the favour of even a single

chief, such as he might reasonably expect to gain,

would amply suffice for his wants. Besides this, he

had not cared to write, and there was no knowing

where a man like him might be, who had already

walked right across Africa and back again. So

whenever the question was discussed formally, or

otherwise, it seemed better to defer action till some

intelligence of his wishes and whereabouts had been

received. In the meantime, acting upon his own
2o6 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

data and reasonings, the proprietor of the New York
Herald sent the expedition, whose progress is

described in Stanley's book, and which ended so

successfully for Livingstone. One wishes that the

whole thing could have been effected with less secrecy

in the beginning, and less ostentation and comparison
of Americans and English to the prejudice of the

latter.

When the box of native make that contained

Livingstone's remains was brought to England by
Cameron, it was deposited in the rooms of the Royal

Geographical Society, and a most pathetic sight it was.

Many wished to be present at its opening, but Sir

Bartle Frere, then the President, determined that no

opportunity should be given for journalistic description,
and refusing to himself the painful gratification of

witnessing limited the spectators to very few. Sir
William Fergusson, the great operator, was deputed
           it,
              it,

                                                         II
to dissect the arm-bone at the place where the lion

had broken       as means of identification.               forget

who were the others. They included some members

of Livingstone's family, and Mr. Webb of Newstead
Abbey, a great sportsman and friend of Livingstone,

familiar with the locality of the injured bone.              think

these were all.

     The pathos of Livingstone's interment in West
minster Abbey was painfully marred by the use of

a conventional coffin and other funeral upholstery.

Had he been buried in the box rudely made by

natives, that had conveyed his remains from the far

interior to the Coast and told its own tale, the

ceremony would have been incomparably more

touching.
GEOGRAPHY AND EAST AFRICA  207

      I should have an ungrateful task if I had to speak
 at length of Stanley's travels down the Congo.
 His journey was first described at Brighton at a large
 meeting of the Geographical Section of the British
 Association, of which I was the President. The
ex-Emperor and Empress of the French were among

the audience. So much mystery had been preserved
beforehand about it that none of us had a conception
of what was coming, which is quite contrary to usual
procedure. Mr. Stanley had other interests than

geography. He was essentially a journalist aiming

at producing sensational articles, and it was feared

from the newspaper letters he had already written that

he might utilise the opportunity in ways inappropriate
to the British Association. However, the meeting
went off without more misadventure than a single
interference on my part, but under some tension. I

will not enter further into this.

     It is highly necessary to the credit of a Society

that its Council should, as a rule, and always when

there is any misgiving, exact that the papers about

to be read should be referred to experts and favour
ably reported on. The Society gives a pulpit, as it

were, to the speaker, and in its turn has a right to

exact precautions that these advantages should not
be abused. I cannot understand to this day how

that strange individual, Rougemont, obtained per

mission to read his fantastic, perhaps half-hallucinatory

paper about the coral reefs and treasures in Australia

before the British Association. Putting every other
improbability for the moment to one side, the " Art-
of-Travel " impossibilities in his story, as in the

construction of his raft, would have made me
208 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

scrutinise with a very wary eye all the rest that he

said.

     I may mention a ludicrous but discreditable
incident at a meeting of the Geographical Section of

the British Association, which the timely reference of

a paper before it was allowed to be read might

perhaps have prevented. It was in Cambridge in
1862. Sir Roderick Murchison had been nominated
as President of the Section, but fell just before the
                                a
meeting, and was nominated and elected in his stead.
Mr. W., a Fellow of King's College, had beenIIt ill
                  it
entrusted with the MSS of         recently deceased

Oriental Professor, including a memoir on the inscrip

tion upon a stone near Aberdeen.            was well known

to antiquarians, and had long puzzled them the;
Professor declared to be Phenician. The title of

the Geographical Section then included the alreadyit
obsolete words "and Philology," so was technically
correct that the paper should be read there. Mr. W.

called on me, most desirous, as he said, for the honour

of the Association that a paper by so distinguished
   University Professor should be read before it.
a

                                    it
                                                         a

                                                                                         a

                                                                       I
demurred, saying that was doubtful whether single
member of the Committee knew word of Phenician,
or were able to discuss its merits. In reply to the
question whether that language was really sufficiently
well understood to justify a translation, he assured me

was, and mentioned two great works in German, of
it
         I
                   if
                             I
                                                     I

                                                                                                                 ;
which knew nothing, in proof.               still hesitated,

but said that the Committee should agree to accept

the communication, would offer no objection, and

they did agree, under the spell of Mr. W.'s eloquence

so the paper was accepted.
        GEOGRAPHY AND EAST AFRICA                   209

    When I took the chair the next day, the zeal of
Mr. W. was conspicuous in the diagrams he had

hung round the walls like a frieze. Each diagram

contained a representation of one of the 35 or so
characters. Below it was its Hebrew equivalent, and

below all was a free translation, in which I noted

there were more words than there were letters in the

original, and my misgivings grew. The paper proved

to be long and tedious, as papers on antiquarian sub

jects often are, and the audience melted away. At

length the reporters could stand it no longer, and

most fortunately left also. The audience was then

reduced to a mere handful of persons, and when the

paper was finished Mr. C. rose, who was a recognised

authority on Greek manuscripts, and said that he

had no pretensions in respect to a knowledge of

Phenician, but as a mere question of resemblance it

struck him that the characters (which he pointed out)
seemed to him less like the alleged Hebrew equiva

lents than to the letters forming the Greek word

ALEXANDROS. There was no doubt he was

right, and the small audience tittered. In the mean

time the Secretary, a well-known antiquarian, became

more and more excited, and jumped up as soon as Mr.
                   and exclaimed, " Phenician    "
C.  had sat down,                                   (Con
                                               !

temptuous grunt.) "Greek!" (Another different and
equally contemptuous grunt.) "Can you not read

' HIC JACET ' ? " and I must say his reading seemed
to me the least forced of the three. I think all of us

felt utterly ashamed. Had the reporters been present,

the fun that could have been made by the newspapers

out of the incident would have been a disaster to the

credit of the Association. The Reports of that

    14
210 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

meeting in the Journal of the Association have been
so toned down that no one would suspect from

reading them what really took place.

     My connection with the Royal Geographical
Society was a long one, and I served for many years

on its Council, but the time came when my deafness

was an insuperable bar to utility. On Sir Clement

Markham becoming President, he very kindly offered

me the vacant post of Trusteeship, which carries with

it a permanent place on the Council, and is not

practically a burden ; but I was compelled to decline,

and have taken no direct part in furthering its

interests since that time, but have confined my work

to other pursuits.

I had a hand in many actions of the Society.

In its earlier years there was good cause of com

plaint as to the method in which the Society was

being worked. Mr. Spottiswoode and myself were

the Joint Hon. Secretaries, and the necessary reform

was only brought about by our simultaneous resigna

tion on the ground that our urgent remonstrances

were shelved by the then President. It was agreed

between us that, to save appearances, Spottiswoode

should continue to act for a short time longer, being

earnestly requested to do so.

In due course a new Assistant Secretary was

appointed, and after some failures to secure a man

capable of worthily filling that important post, we
                                    and appoint Mr. H. W.
-ihad the good fortune   to  find
                             was   remarkably well informed
Bates (1825 892).       He

on geographical matters, had been a considerable

traveller in companionship with Alfred Russell

Wallace in South America, and was one of the first
GEOGRAPHY AND EAST AFRICA  211

it,to show that the mimicry of insects was developed as
a means of protection. I look back with the greatest
pleasure to my long and close association with Mr.

Bates in the work of the Royal Geographical Society.
His death was a great loss and a great blow to many
friends. He and another friend only just dead were

exceptionally slow in finding the exact word they

wished to use. Yet both of them, in despite of slow

ness of utterance, succeeded in giving an exact notion
of their views in a briefer time than any one else I
can think of. Their sentences were a standing lesson
to avoid superfluity of words when making explana

tions.

      One new and successful attempt that I set on
foot was the intervention of the Royal Geographi
cal Society in geographical education. I began with

public schools, having talked the matter well over

with W. F. Farrar, then a master at Harrow. He
thought the idea quite feasible. Then I had much
help from the Hon. G. Brodrick, and encouragement
from my brother-in-law, George Butler, then Head
master of Liverpool College, who shared the belief of
Dr. Arnold in the value of geography, if properly
taught. That was by no means the general view,

 which was rather that geography lent itself to cram
 more easily than any other subject, and that it was

 hardly possible to set real problems in that should

 compel thought.

      The upshot of all was, that the Royal Geographical

 Society offered an annual gold medal to be competed
 for by boys belonging to a considerable number of

 invited schools -- in fact to all of the public schools
 properly so called. The examiners for the medal
212 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

were annually appointed by the Society. The medal

in the first year was won by the present Provost of
Glasgow University, Dr. Donald Macalister ; that in

the second by George Grey Butler, son of my

brother-in-law, and for many years Chief Examiner of
the Education Office. The medals were continued

for some years, but they were said to do incidental

harm by tempting the masters of schools of the

second rank to divert their best scholars to geography

in order to gain tclat for the school, thereby inter

fering with their career in the more generally re

cognised and bread-winning studies of ordinary

education.

     The medals were therefore discontinued, and the

efforts of the Society were directed to the Universities.

I helped in this at first, but Mr. Brodrick and Mr.

Douglas Freshfield and others took the matter more

thoroughly in hand. After a little while, Mr. Mac-

Kinder, now Head of the Department of Economics

of   the University of   London, applied   for  and gained
      post of " Reader  " in Geography in  the   University
the

of Oxford, and he rapidly improved the quality of

geographical teaching. General, afterwards Sir
Richard Strachey, then President of the Royal

Geographical Society, inaugurated the introduction ofit,
geography into the University of Cambridge by four
lectures. I believe the subject has now gained a
firm footing in both Universities. To say the least
of a thorough knowledge of classical lands, such as

can be conveyed by first-rate maps, models, and

diagrams, must be helpful to classical students.
                       CHAPTER XV

                        BRITISH ASSOCIATION

  Its function and merits -- My connection with and indebtedness to it--
                                       Sir William Grove

I HAVE been connected with the British Associa
        tion more or less intimately during many years,
four times as President of a Section or " Department,"
once as deliverer of a Lecture, a member of its Council
almost from my return from South Africa, then from
1863 to 1867 as its General Secretary, and afterwards
as an official member of its Council.

     The Association affords what is often the most

appropriate means of ventilating new ideas. It can

create a Committee with or without a grant of money,
giving to its proposer the title either of Chairman or
Secretary, which clothes him with an authority that
an unknown individual would lack, when making

inquiries of public bodies at home or abroad. It

also provides him with colleagues to discuss and

criticise results before they are finally published. A

good example of these advantages may be found in
the Report of the Anthropometric Committee, which
has afforded standard data up to the present time, for
the chief physical characteristics of the inhabitants of
the British Isles. The hard work carried on in its

                                                                        »'3
214 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

name was mainly performed by Mr. Roberts, its

Secretary, who wrote a book afterwards in which his
results were included. He was greatly helped by
Sir Rawson Rawson, who was a member of the
Committee. The rest of the Committee did little

more than discuss subjects and methods, but even

that little was helpful. I was its Chairman, but

claim no more than an insignificant share in its

success.

     Again, many years later, in 1 888-1 889, I was
desirous that a proposal of mine should be seriously
considered, of awarding marks for physical efficiency
in competitive literary examinations. I read my
memoir, the Association took it up, and the results of
some experiments at Eton and many valuable com
munications were received in reply, including a careful
minute from a high authority of the War Office.
 These convinced me that although the proposal had

strong a priori claims to consideration, it did not

 merit acceptance ; so it was dropped.
      Many other examples of a similar kind could be

 quoted, some failing, most succeeding. The British
 Association in its early days was of still greater value

 than it is now. At that time locomotion was tedious,

 and the numerous scientific societies of the present
 day that issue frequent publications had not come
 into existence. Local men of science who had been

  socially overlooked were brought forward to their

 rightful position by its means. It has frequently

  happened that an improvement in a town was furthered
  or even initiated through a visit of the British Associa
  tion. The papers read there and discussions upon
  them are not the most important part of its work.
BRITISH ASSOCIATION  215

The Reports of the Committees appointed by it are
as a rule far more valuable than ordinary memoirs,
and so are the Presidential Addresses, but perhaps
the most useful function of the British Association lies

in causing persons who are occupied in different
branches of science, and who rarely meet elsewhere,

to be jostled together and to become well acquainted.
Its organisation was a wonderful feat, for it was
created upon paper, and has required nothing ever
since beyond a little easing and extension here and

there.

     The plan of one meeting is as like that of another
as two Roman camps. On entering the reception-
room, time seems to have stood still, for the same

familiar faces are seen in the same places ; the placards
that refer to letters, to programmes, to excursions and
to the other multifarious business of the Association,

are similarly arranged, so after the experience of a
single year a member finds himself at home on every
future occasion. But the sustained racket of it is
great, and I found it too long continued for my own
nerves. I had a complete breakdown when I was
General Secretary, which compelled me to resign
what otherwise was a very pleasant post : it would
have been playing with death had I continued to
hold it.

     My period of office began at the time when the
old order of supreme management by a few magnates

was giving way to a more democratic government.
Its earlier and distinguished members, such as
Sabine and Murchison, had naturally so much weight
in Council that when they were active and in close
touch with their juniors their opinions were sure to
2l6 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

prevail. So the duty of a General Secretary in those

days was to consult a few of the more eminent

persons at first, and again at the close, with the

almost complete assurance that whatever names were

suggested with their approval, whether as President,

Presidents of Sections, or Lecturers, would be accepted

by the Council. These consultations with many able

men were very instructive. They showed the striking

differences between the points of view from which

original minds may regard the same topic. Uncon-

ventionality seems to be a marked characteristic of

such minds ; I have noticed it elsewhere and very

often.

     Among the features of the Association meetings
was the " Red Lion " Club, in which clever buffoonery

was freely indulged. It was instituted by Edward

Forbes (who was rather before my time, and whom I

never had the pleasure of knowing). The governing

idea was that its members were really lions, acquainted

with one another, who had met by chance, during

their prowls, in a town where strange proceedings were

in progress. The speakers described what they had

witnessed, speaking as it were from a superior and

leonine pedestal.

I have only attended two of these meetings ; in

one the buffoonery of Monckton Milnes (afterwards
Lord Houghton) was of a first-class order. So also
was the humorous sarcasm of Professor W. K. Clifford

(1845-1879), the mathematician, also the mimicry of

Mr., afterwards Sir, W. Chandler Roberts Austen,

an accomplishment that it amazed me to find he

                   a
                                                  it,
possessed. Subsequently, on talking about              he

made the shrewd remark that useful way of under
BRITISH ASSOCIATION  217

standing a man's character was to mimic his ways, and
that he frequently mimicked new acquaintances in his

imagination for that purpose. This seems to me very

subtle and true. If we want to raise in our minds a

quick sympathy, say, for a friend's tale of grief, we in
stinctively screw our features into an expression of

sorrow, and the required emotion follows almost as a

matter of course. It is needless to dwell on the

existence of accomplished hypocrites, who screw their

faces without the slightest desire to evoke the feeling
they appear to express.

     My last attempt to utilise the British Association

failed owing to my increasing age and infirmities.
I wanted to methodise the preservation of records
of pedigree stock to serve as data for future inquiries,
and wrote memoirs (147, 148) on the subject, in which
I showed that photographs of animals, taken under
certain simple and feasible conditions, afforded means
of calculating their measurements with considerable
exactitude, as tested by myself on horses. I took

great pains, and was given facilities for photography
at one of the great horse shows at the Agricultural

Hall. The attempt was perfectly successful in
essentials, though several alterations of detail were

suggested by that experience, but the effort was far
too much for my health. Most of these exhibitions

are held during the winter months, and, being now
very liable to bronchitis, I found it quite impossible

to endure the draughty passages and other dis
comforts during that season. I could not delegate it
to my satisfaction, so was obliged, to my great regret,
to abandon all further attempts in that direction,

otherwise some useful work might have been done.
2l8 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

      The hospitality afforded during the visits of the
British Association is always great, but I fear often
onerous and unwelcome to the hosts, however care

fully their courtesy may conceal such feelings. I
have to be grateful for many apparently cordial
receptions of this kind. One of the simplest and

yet most effective was given at Birmingham by
Charles Evans, afterwards Canon of Worcester, but

then Headmaster of King Edward's School, where
we had been schoolfellows. The building had

abundant accommodation, and he got together a very
distinguished party. The food provided was plain,

but well cooked and plenty of it. A large luncheon

table with cold meat was at the disposal of any of
the guests who wished to bring friends with him.
There was no display, but abundance everywhere,
and perfect freedom. Few, except masters of large
public schools, could have arranged and carried out
such a programme as well and easily as he did.

      I have been asked twice to act as President of the
Association. On the first occasion my name was
formally proposed by the officers of*the Association
to the Council at which I was then sitting, but I was
conscious of my limitations in respect to health, and

with many thanks declined, even though some pressure
was kindly put on me. On the second occasion, and
much more lately, I was actually nominated in my
absence, with the offer of most thoughtful arrange

ments to diminish fatigue, but I had again to decline

still more emphatically than before, as my powers
of work and endurance had in the meantime become

smaller and my deafness had increased.

    It is an office that affords an excellent stage from
BRITISH ASSOCIATION  219

which to address the public, because the Presidential

Address is usually printed more or less in full, and

commented on in the leading newspapers, while long

extracts from it are given in all of them. It is also

an office that carries considerable responsibilities,
and one where very useful work may be done by its

holder. It requires, however, a more genial speaker

at ceremonial meetings than myself, where I simply
hate having to come forward. My infirmities have
prevented me from attending any of the meetings
of the British Association for many past years.

     The Addresses of the Presidents of the Associa

tion differ much, as might be expected, in interest
and importance. One that gained unusual attention,
owing to its simplicity and sterling value, was that

of Sir William Grove, of whom I will take this

occasion to speak.

     The late Justice Sir William Grove (181 1 -1896)
is one of those to whom I owe most for sympathy

 in my inquiries, for helpful criticisms, and for long-

continued friendship. His early work as chemist and
 electrician, his masterly book on the " Correlation of

 Physical Forces," when the idea was novel that heat,

 electricity, force, etc., were convertible into one

 another, and his resolute and successful labours to

 raise the worth of the Royal Society, promoted him

 easily into the very first rank of scientific men. At

 a subsequent time, when he was seriously considering
 whether or no he should abandon the legal pro

 fession, he was unexpectedly promoted to a judge
 ship, the object of the appointment being to secure
 a judge capable of dealing with the technicalities
 of Patent cases. The result, as he told me, and as
220 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

 I have heard elsewhere, was that not a single Patent
case was brought into his Court. Presumably he
was dreaded by both sides on account of his searching

questions.

     It was his practice to rent a large house and

shooting during the autumn vacation, and he most
hospitably asked my wife and myself to make long
visits to him during three autumns. On the first
of these an incident occurred which might have
ended, but which confirmed, his friendship ; namely,

the sudden and most severe illness of my wife. The

prompt and continuous care shown to her by every
member of the family at that time in the house, called

for my warmest gratitude. Sir William's second son,

who was then a young man, but now a highly dis
tinguished officer, rode several miles to the nearest
town, summoned the doctor, and brought back a bag

of ice on horseback. Sir William's daughter, Mrs.
Hills, nursed her with every possible care for some

weeks, until she was sufficiently convalescent to bear

removal. Recovery at length ensued, but serious
weakness remained, which continued up to her death,

nearly forty years later.

     One of Sir William Grove's achievements was that
of being the main agent, in 1847, of changing the
character of the governing body of the Royal Society.
It had become too aristocratic, dating from the long
presidency of Sir Joseph Banks, and its elections
were guided by favour. The struggle between

two opposed principles became one between the

supporters of different candidates. It was a near

contest, but the reform party gained the day. They
signalised the memory of their triumph by founding
                    BRITISH ASSOCIATION

the " Philosophical Club " for the use of the reformers,
in distinction to the older Royal Society Club. Both

were merely dining clubs that met on the evenings
of Royal Society meetings, and they were held on
alternate weeks. I, like many others, was a member

of both. The members of the Philosophical Club

were limited in number to forty-seven, as a reminder

of the date of its foundation. This controversy is

now quite obsolete, and the two clubs have become

amalgamated.

     Another very important reform that Sir William
Grove carried through on this occasion, was to limit
the number of elections to the Royal Society to fifteen

in each year, it having been found that fifteen
annual elections corresponded to the losses by death ;
so the average number of Fellows would thereby

remain unchanged. It was the firm opinion of Sir

William Grove, which I fully share, that the only
feasible way of keeping a standard of qualification
from being lowered is to limit the number of selected
candidates, for it is scarcely possible to define a
standard in words. The question has lately been
raised whether fifteen is not too small a number now.
On that point I have no up-to-date knowledge that
would justify an opinion, but when I served on the
Council of the Royal Society many years ago, and
the number of candidates averaged little more than
fifty, it happened that about twelve out of the fifteen
were elected at the first ballot, but there was often

considerable delay in fixing upon the remainder. So
it seemed that fifteen was a somewhat high number
then, but this year there were as many as a hundred

candidates. Certainly no one has been elected since
222 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

1847 to the Fellowship of the Royal Society who has
not done a large amount of sound work, and the
credit of the Society has been continuously main

tained at a high level.
     Many persons imagine in their innocence that

when any one appends letters to his name testifying
to his being a Fellow of one or more learned societies

that he is necessarily a scientific expert. This is true
for hardly any other society than the Royal. In all

others the letters show little more than that the

person who uses them is sufficiently interested in the

sciences in question to make it worth his while to
pay an annual subscription. I have served on the
Councils of many of these societies, and can only recall

two cases in which a proposed candidate was not

elected. In the one, the man had been imprisoned for

a grave offence ; in the other, he was a wastrel well
known to avoid paying his debts.

      Many pleasant days have been spent by me under
the hospitable roof of Mr. and Mrs. Hills. She was,
as already mentioned, a daughter of Sir William
Grove, and has been one of my closest friends ever
since the terrible illness of my wife mentioned above.
Her husband, Judge Hills, died very recently. He
was a judge in Alexandria, where he resided during
the larger part of the year, but returned every
autumn to exercise hospitality in England.

     The conversational powers of Sir William Grove

 were remarkable when he was sufficiently excited to

show them to advantage. One evening, before going
to a distant meeting of the British Association, he,
 Professor Huxley, and myself, dined together at the
 same table at the Athenaeum. Never, before or since,
BRITISH ASSOCIATION  223

have I heard such rapid and continuous conversa
tional sword-play. The sudden thrusts, the quick

parries and counter-thrusts, were extraordinarily

dexterous. I regret my inability to recall more than
this general impression, without any of the actual

sentences.
                      CHAPTER XVI

         KEW OBSERVATORY AND METEOROLOGY

General Sir E. Sabine-- Sextants and watches -- Now merged into
      National Physical Laboratory -- Meteorological Committee, sub
      sequently Council of the Board of Trade -- Self-recording instru
      ments, reduction of their tracings -- Henry Smith

AN early friendship that exercised great influence
          in shaping my future scientific life was that of
General, afterwards Sir Edward, Sabine, R.A., and

President of the Royal Society. At the time of

which I am speaking he was its Treasurer ; he also
held two offices, in both of which I was his successor
after some years. They were the Chairmanship of
the Kew Observatory and the Secretaryship of the
British Association, as already mentioned. General
Sabine ( 1 788-1 883) devoted himself to the study of
magnetism, to its geographical distribution and its
periodic and irregular variations. He had joined an
Arctic Expedition for the express purpose of making
exact magnetical observations in high latitudes, and
he had inspired zealous and capable men, at various
stations about the globe, to establish a system of
continuous and comparable observations. This in
volved careful examinations of the refined instruments
about to be employed, and of instruction in their use.
Means for doing all this were established by him at
Kew.

                                                                                     394
   KEW OBSERVATORY AND METEOROLOGY 225

     The history of the Kew Observatory is far too
complicated to be fully described here. It was first
instituted owing to the desire of many of the foremost
men in physical science, in the early days of the
British Association, to have access to a place where

physical experiments might be made, and new

instruments tested. The Observatory stands in the
Old Deer Park, Richmond, adjoining the Kew
Gardens. It was originally built for the amusement

of George 111., while he was more or less insane, and
it was begged for by the philosophers and allotted
by Government to their use. Its maintenance was
defrayed by considerable grants annually voted by the
British Association, that mounted at one time to as

much as ^600. This became far too onerous a

charge for their means, so various changes were made

in its government and maintenance. At length it

fell into the hands of the Royal Society, and was

managed by a committee appointed by that body

from among its members. It paid its way by charges

made for standardising instruments, supplemented by
occasional grants. Later on, the interest of a

handsome endowment of ;£ 10,000 made by Mr. J. P.

Gassiott, of whom more presently, placed it in a fairly
firm position.

     At the time when Sir Edward Sabine caused me
to become a member of the Managing Committee, the
Kew Observatory had obtained, through his exertions,
a high and wide reputation for the exactness of the

observations made there, and it had become the place
where the outfits of all magnetic observatories, English
and foreign, were standardised, and where intending

observers were instructed. It was, in fact, the Central

           '5
226 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Magnetic Observatory of the world. It held an

almost equally strong position in respect to the delicate

pendulum apparatus by which the force of gravity is

measured at different places on the globe, and again with

regard to standard thermometers and meteorological

instruments generally. Its Managers were eager to

extend its operations to any kind of self-paying

scientific experiment. Any person desirous of having

a new invention tested could get it well done there

at a cost that just repaid the trouble, subject, of

course, to the permission of the Managing Committee

and to the leisure of the staff.

One of the first things that I busied myself about,

when I joined was to establish means for standard
it,

                            I
ising sextants and other angular instruments. The

cheaper kinds of these were unnecessarily bad, and

many of the more costly were by no means so good

as they should be for their price.  thought at first

of utilising heliostats to give sharp points of reference

by adjusting minute mirrors at distant points, flashing

the sun on to them from larger mirrors at the Obser

vatory, and using the return flashes as the points of

reference. One of these small mirrors was fixed to

the south obelisk, within a cage which may still be

there. This arrangement was so far successful that

beautiful stars of light were produced in response to

flashes from the Observatory, but the uncertainty of

sunshine in our climate showed the method to be of

little practical value. Then Messrs. Cooke of York,

who were among the foremost makers of large tele

scopes, devised an arrangement with collimators and

artificial light. They made one for Kew, which
a
                                                             is
contained within small dark room, and has acted
   KEW OBSERVATORY AND METEOROLOGY 227

perfectly, to a considerable improvement in the make
of the cheaper sextants.

     Another thing that I did was to contrive an

apparatus by which thermometers could be rapidly
and yet very accurately verified, and by which from
ten to twenty thousand clinical thermometers are still
annually tested. Mr. De la Rue gave me help in
devising this. The few pence gained on each of these
many thermometers amounted to a respectable sum,
and confirmed the solvency of the institution, whose
margin of profit over loss was always small and had
been precarious. We were thus in a better position
to extend our work and to add to our instruments,

and we did so.

     Another operation which I was among the first,
if not the first, to suggest, was the rating of watches.
This has been a real success. The performances of
watches, when we first took the matter in hand, was

by no means proportionate to their cost, more than
one highly ornamented and expensive time-keeper
failing to obtain a class-place equal to that of others
of much inferior pretensions. Now a Kew certificated
watch has a special and recognised value, and the
makers of valuable watches are far more on their

mettle than they used to be.

     The influence of the Kew verifications as time

went on extended in many other directions, as by
testing the performance of telescopes and opera-glasses
supplied to the army and navy, in order to ascertain
whether their capabilities were up to the specified
standard. Mariners' compasses of complicated and

delicate construction were also dealt with. A beauti

ful apparatus devised by Sir Wm. Abney and Major
228 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Leonard Darwin was subsequently set up to test
photographic lenses, and to enable appropriate certi

ficates to be given them.

     So the institution throve, and was a "going
concern," but it was wholly unequal in its scale to
the rapidly growing requirements of the day. This
         found expression in  the Anniversary Address
feeling  British Association  in 1895, by my cousin Sir
to the
Douglas Galton ; powerful support was given to his
suggestions and efforts, and finally the Kew Committee
was merged into the much larger and more important
National Physical Observatory, under the directorship
of Mr. Glazebrook, which swallowed at a single gulp

the whole of our thrifty savings.
     I look back with pleasure to my long connection
with the Kew Observatory, for its Committee always
consisted of very capable men, who gave time with
out stint to the discussion of the new questions which

continually arose, and which could be answered by

esuxcpceMeretrsd. eoGdnalsySs.iirottEd(1w7a9r7d-1S8a7b7i)n, eofaswhitosmChIahiramveans.pokeHne,
     remarkable for solid sense and  business acumen,
was  played a considerable part in   the work of the
and
Royal Society. His experiments on electric dis
          in quasi-vacuo were very beautiful, and
charges
thought   highly of at the time. He was a striking
instance  of the combination of scientific research with
the direction of an important business, for he was
one of the principal wine merchants, and said to be
the largest importer of port wine in London.
     Another instance of the same combination was
his successor in the same office, Mr. Warren De la
    KEW OBSERVATORY AND METEOROLOGY 229

Rue (1815-1889), the famous stationer, whose
mechanical ingenuity, artistic taste, and business
habits were most valuable. I have served with him

on various Councils, where his help and influence
were always felt. I shall have shortly again to speak
of him. The pretty Kew monogram was his design.

     I became Chairman of the Observatory in succes

sion to Mr. De la Rue in 1889, and held that post

until 1901, when it ceased to be an independent body.
The Observatory has been fortunate in its particularly

able Superintendents, Sir Francis Ronalds of electric
fame, Dr. Balfour Stewart, subsequently Professor at
Owen's College, Manchester, Mr. Whipple, a man
of considerable natural gifts, and Dr. Cree, now
President of the Physical Society. Many members
of their staff were very trustworthy and valuable

officials.
     Much interest in the laws of the weather had been

aroused long previously to 1860, and it was then
clearly understood by those who studied them that
future progress depended on securing numerous
observations made at the same moment, during many

years, at stations scattered over a wide area. The
popular book of Maury in America and the writings
of Admiral FitzRoy drew attention to this need ; and
Le Verrier, the French astronomer, issued daily
charts of the Atlantic, based on such observations as
he could obtain from ships and coast stations. But

these were so few compared to the area over which
they were scattered, and so unequally distributed,
that too much guess-work was needed to combine
their information into coherent and reasonable

systems.
230 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

     The only fairly well understood feature in those
times, of movements of the air, was that of the

cyclone, or the huge tropical whirlwind carrying

destruction with it. It had been observed that when

these whirlwinds occurred in the northern hemi
sphere they circled in the opposite direction to that of
the hands of a clock, round a centre of low barometric
pressure, and therefore round an area of uprush of

heated and moist air, accompanied, as it would be,

with heavy rains. This circling was justly attributed
to the spherical shape of the earth in combination
with its easterly rotation. An indraught, coming
from the direction of the equator, was impressed with
an excess of easterly movement, and one from the
nearest pole with a deficiency ; in other words, the

latter had a westerly movement relatively to the

place of observation. The observed twist was the
necessary result of their coming together. An
opposite direction of twist occurred, as would have

been expected, in the two hemispheres ; in the
southern one, the whirlwind circled round the area
of uprush in the same direction as the hands of a

clock. It was also surmised, that the direction of the

wind in ordinary weather was everywhere governed
by the same twisting conditions as in the terrible
cyclones of the tropics, where it had first been noticed.

      I felt greatly disposed to examine more closely
into these movements of the air, and it occurred to

me that enough help for the purpose might be obtained
in Europe from existing observatories, light-houses,
and ships in the neighbouring seas. They would
enable an experimental map to be made thrice daily
for a month, in which the observations should be at
     KEW OBSERVATORY AND METEOROLOGY 231

 stations much closer together than those in the maps

 of Le Verrier, and yet would embrace a sufficiently
 large area to exhibit the details of a complete weather
 system. I took a great deal of pains about this, and

 finally succeeded in 1862 in obtaining what was

 wanted.

      It was with no small eagerness that I set to work

 to map out the data. The month began under
 cyclonic conditions ; then, to my intense delight, as
 that system passed by, it was followed by a condition
 of affairs the exact opposite to the cyclone, and supple
mentary to it. The cyclone, as already said, is an
uprush of air, associated with a low barometer and

 clouds, due to the hot and moist air becoming chilled
as it rose, and it was fed, as just described, by an
indraught with an anti-clock-ways twist in the northern
hemisphere. That which I now found, during the
latter part of the month in question, was a downrush
of air associated with a high barometer and a clear
sky, and with an outflow having a clock-ways twist.

The one system was clearly supplementary to the
other. So in the memoir I contributed on the subject
to the Royal Society [16], I called the newly
discovered system an "Anti-cyclone." Speaking
broadly, the whole of the movements of the lower
strata of the air are now looked upon as a combination
of cyclones and anti-cyclones, which feed one another.
The name established itself at once, and is now

familiar.

     The present daily weather charts of the Times,

from data supplied by the Meteorological Office, began
to appear at a subsequent date, and I took consider
able part in their early construction. I had also made
             Memories of my life

many previous attempts to represent the distribution
of the weather in a form suitable for printing with

movable types. With the aid of Mr. W. Spottis-
woode I had types cut for me of appropriate forms,
and casts from them were used in the set of my

published charts based on the above-mentioned data
(Meteorographica (Macmillan), 1863) [17], but these
were not a success. Later I tried the plan of cutting
curves and arrows in soft material by a drill panta-

graph, whence casts might be taken for printing. A

drill pantagraph is made like an ordinary one, except
that the pencil is replaced by a drill, which is rotated
by a string that passes over the joints and does not
hinder the movements of its arms. I do not know

whether this plan of making the weather maps is still

adopted. It was submitted to the Times by the

Meteorological Council, through their Secretary, and

I still have the first trial stereotype that was cast on
this principle. I heard that there was trouble at first

in finding a suitable soft material better than plaster
of Paris and the like, but that this difficulty of detail

was soon overcome.

     I have already mentioned Admiral R. FitzRoy
(1805-1865). He was captain of the surveying ship

 The Beagle, whose name became familiar to the

public through Charles Darwin's Voyage of the
 "Beagle." He had always been most zealous

in the advancement of weather forecasts and

storm warnings. The " cone " was his device. A

 Meteorological Office was established under his
 superintendence in 1854, entirely owing to his

exertions, but it was on a very small scale. His

 publications unfortunately failed in scientific solidity,
KEW OBSERVATORY AND METEOROLOGY 233

and were occasionally open to serious criticism. I

myself ventured to attack them in some particulars

which it is needless now to recall.

On his lamented death it was determined to

reconstruct the office, and a small Departmental

Committee of the Board of Trade was named to

consider the question. It consisted of Mr., afterwards

Lord, Farrer (181 9-1 899), who was then the
Secretary of the Board, the then Hydrographer,
Captain, afterwards Sir Frederick, Evans (181 5-1 885),
and myself. We reported in 1 866, and I must here

pay a tribute to the singular grasp and thoroughness
of Lord Farrer, whose occasional brief notes to me,

in the course of the inquiry, were models of clearness

combined with cordiality.

     The result was the formation of a Meteorological

Committee in 1868, of which I was a member, for

giving storm warnings to seaports, for procuring

data for marine charts of weather, and for maintaining

a few standard Observatories with self-recording

instruments. An annual grant was made to meet its
expenses. This avowedly provisional arrangement

worked well for some years, when it was felt that the
scope of the Meteorological Committee ought to be

somewhat enlarged and its constitution reconsidered.

So a second Government Committee was appointed

by the Board of Trade and the Treasury jointly, of

which I was   again  "a member, and     in consequence of
               the   "                  Committee " was
their Report   the      Meteorological  Council," with an
changed into            Meteorological

enlarged grant. It continued in this form until 1905,

a little after I had retired from it owing to increasing
deafness. It has subsequently been modified anew,
 234 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

 and is now under the Directorship of Dr. W. N.

 Shaw, with a large governing body, whose meetings
are much less frequent than those of the Council had

 been, and interfere less in details.

      My long connection with the able men with whom
 I co-operated for nearly forty years on the Meteoro

logical Committee and Council has given very great
pleasure to me, and I had the satisfaction in its

earlier days, when new instruments and methods were
frequently called for, of being able to do my full share

of the work. I will mention only one or two things
about which I was much occupied, as examples.
Part of our action was to maintain a few well-
equipped self-recording Observatories -- that is to say,

where the instruments wrote down their own move

ments, photographically or otherwise. For instance,
a sheet of photographic paper was moved slowly by
clock-work in front of a barometer. The barometer

stood in front of a slit in a screen, with a lamp on the
other side. The light of the lamp passed freely
through the empty portion of the glass tube on to the

sensitive paper, but was shut off by the mercury.
Hour lines were automatically marked upon the
paper. The result was technically called a photo
graphic "tracing," which showed at each moment of

time how the barometer then stood. An analogous
contrivance was adapted to every one of the other

instruments.

    All the instrumental data were recorded by these

tracings, but they were much too cumbrous in form

and size for easy comparison. The question then

arose whether it would not be possible to reduce

these voluminous documents and print them in a
KEW OBSERVATORY AND METEOROLOGY 235

compendious yearly volume. If so, the tracings

would require very much more reduction in breadth

than in height, for the photographic mark made by

the recorder was so broad that the scale of the tracing

had to be proportionately wide open ; otherwise the

neighbouring irregularities would blur together. A

sharp line drawn along the middle of the tracings

might, however, be much compressed laterally and yet

show all the irregularities distinctly.  I designed a

compound drill pantagraph for the purpose, which
reduced the tracings in height independently of the

reduction in length. One part of the machine worked

the drill forward and backwards, the other part moved

the plate from side to side upon which it worked.

The result was to express the tracings by fine

grooves cut into a piece of soft metal. These were

again reduced by an ordinary pantagraph. The

whole process required thinking out in numerous
details, but it proved quite a success. It is described

in the annual Report of the Meteorological Office for

1 869.

     Squares of zinc, one for each day, were grooved
by the drill pantagraph so as to show every one of
the data without confusion. They referred to Wind

Velocity and Direction, Barometric Height, Rainfall,
Dry and Wet Thermometer, together with a line to
show the amount of Humidity in the air, which was
mechanically calculated from the combined traces of

the two thermometers. These squares were placed

beneath a large and beautifully designed German

pantagraph, whose pointer was directed along the
grooves in the zinc, while the diamond point of the

scribe scratched the varnish on a copper plate, which
236 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

was then etched by acid. The result was to produce
quarto copper plates, each containing the whole of
the instrumental data for each of the seven stations

for five consecutive days. The original tracings are
reduced to the ratio of 6 : i in horizontal and 2 : i in
vertical measure. This work was steadily pursued

for twelve years, which is long enough to include a

complete cycle of solar sun-spots. The illustration is
a facsimile of the upper two lines of one page, from

which the fourth and fifth days have been removed,
for want of space.

     It surprises me that meteorologists have not made
much more use than they have of these compre
hensive volumes. But there is no foretelling what
aspect of meteorology will be taken up by the very
few earnest and capable men who work at it. Each
of them wants voluminous data arranged in the form

most convenient for his own particular inquiry.
     I take this opportunity of mentioning another

attempt of mine which was not brought into practice
but may hereafter be useful ; at all events, it is of
interest. The object was to gain some knowledge
of the upper currents of the air, such as are now

being obtained by small balloons or kites, which

carry self-recording instruments. It seemed to me

that the cloud made by a bursting shell fired high
in the air over the sea, at a little frequented part
of the coast, as that of West Ireland, when no vessel

was within the possibility of damage from falling
fragments, ought to give what was needed. The

first questions to be answered were as to the height
to which a shell of appropriate size could be sent,
the visibility of the result, and the cost of each
'37
238 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

experiment. Sir Andrew Noble kindly undertook to
make experiments for the Office, using a io-pounder
gun that happened to be at the Armstrong Works at
Elswick. It had been designed especially for shoot

ing at balloons, and was furnished with the necessary
spring for preventing harm from recoil. The results
were very good and consistent. The shells burst at
a constant height of about 9000 feet, and gave a
conspicuous and durable cloud of smoke, whose
drift could be easily seen and its rate calculated. I

designed a camera-obscura arrangement to do this
conveniently. The recorded interval of time between
the explosion as seen and as heard, was an adequate

measure of the distance of the shell-burst. It

could be ascertained with more care when desired,

and in more than one way. The cost of each shot
was about ten shillings. This method of observa
tion was not followed up, as none of the existing
stations were thought suitable, and it was difficult
to find one that would be so, considering that easy
telegraphic connection with the Meteorological Office
was a necessity. Again, the method would be useless

in cloudy weather. It may possibly be of future

service for inquiries into the varying thickness of the
Trade winds in particular localities.

     Yet another attempt of mine may be mentioned.
Chiefly through the initiative of Admiral Fitzroy,
" Wind roses," as they are called, were calculated for
the various Ocean districts, bounded by lines of
latitude and longitude 10 degrees apart. They
formed adjacent rectangles or "squares" in the

maps used by seamen, which are always drawn on

" Mercator's projection." The "rose" consists of
    KEW OBSERVATORY AND METEOROLOGY 239

divergent spikes directed towards each of the sixteen
primary points of the compass, whose several lengths
are proportional to the frequency of winds in their

direction. A shade or other sign shows the propor

tion of the winds above a specified strength. Con
sequently the roses afford means for judging which
of two competing courses receives, on the average,
the greater share of favourable winds. But it is
no easy matter to calculate by mother-wit the relative
efficiency of the winds as expressed by roses, upon
the run of a ship along any particular course. Almost
every wind can be utilised to some degree ; we want
to know the aggregate effect in the required direction
of the average of the winds from all the sixteen
primary points. I showed how this could be found
mechanically for any ship whose sailing qualities
were known, and suggested that " passage roses "
should be calculated for a typical vessel wherever
wind roses existed. I think this would have been

taken in hand, had not steam begun to largely super
sede sails, and was doing so at a rapidly increasing

rate.

      I was rather scandalised by finding how little was
known to nautical men of the sailing qualities of their
own ships, along each of the sixteen points of the
compass, assuming a moderate sea, and a moderate

wind blowing steadily from one direction. I think,
if I had a yacht, that this would be the first point I

should wish to ascertain in respect to her perform

ances.

     When the Meteorological Council was established,
its first President was that most accomplished classical
scholar, as well as mathematician, Professor Henry
240 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Smith (1826- 1 883) of Oxford, to whose memory the
highest tributes have been paid, notably by Sir

Mountstuart E. Grant Duff. It was delightful to

watch his facility in dealing with difficulties, whether
of administration or expression. The Chairman usually

has to remain in the Office after the meetings are
closed to write letters connected with what has just
been transacted. The Secretary, Mr. Robert Scott,
was of course present at those times, and he told me
of a peculiarity of Henry Smith that I should never
have guessed, namely, that when an important letter
had to be written, it was his habit to begin by filling
a half-sheet and then tearing it up to begin afresh.

I myself am very familiar with the way in which the
mind settles itself while writing the address and date
and the " Dear Sir," but should have thought from
the exceptional rapidity of the ordinary working of
Henry Smith's mind that he would have been the

last person to need a long pause to give his ideas

time to crystallise.

     Notwithstanding his multifarious duties and
interests, he worked hard at the inquiries of the

moment. In one of these I was closely associated

with him, namely, in an attempt to analyse the
extremely complex system of ocean currents round
the Cape and up the West Coast of South Africa.
They admit of being identified and distinguished
partly by their direction and partly by their tempera
ture. Volumes of cold water coming from the
direction of the South Pole sometimes plunge far
below the surface and reappear in the midst of an

otherwise unbroken surface current.

     It was a great shock and grief to us all when,
KEW OBSERVATORY AND METEOROLOGY 241

without previous forewarning, intelligence reached

us of Henry Smith's death, after a brief but singularly

painful illness in 1883.

     We all looked to General, afterwards Sir Richard,

Strachey (181 7-1908) to succeed him, which he did.
He too has died only two days before I write these
        A prominent
lines.                 place ought to be  given to him
in my   " Memories, "  for we have been   connected in

our pursuits very frequently and in very different

ways. He was one of the hardest and most unob

trusive of workers, who exercised a powerful influence

in many great matters, especially in India, but shrank

from publicity and ostentation. Like most master

minds, he had a characteristic way of looking at

things that is hard to describe. It often led to his

taking an unpopular side in discussions, though by

treating the question very clearly from his own point

of view he caused his opinion to be at last accepted.

He has been a steadfast friend to me throughout my
life. I cannot refrain from quoting the official letter

he wrote as Chairman of the Meteorological Council,

when I resigned my seat, it is so gracefully and

kindly expressed.                   "Meteorological Office

                                                                   May 9, 1901

" Dear Mr. Galton, --The new body of Directors
of the Office held their first meeting on Wednesday,
24th April. In the letter from the Royal Society
notifying their appointment, there was a paragraph
intimating that the resignation of your seat on the

Coun" cIitl  had been accepted.     the  first act  of  the  new
             was only natural that

body should be to recall the long period during which
you have occupied a seat either on the original

        16
242 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Meteorological Committee or the Council, and to
endorse, with the emphasis arising from their full
knowledge of your work, the appreciation which the
President and Council of the Royal Society recorded
in
    th"eIitr  letter.
              therefore  becomes   a duty, by which I     am no

little honoured, to convey to you the feeling of the
Council upon the termination of your official ser
vices as a Member of the body on which we have

so long worked together. This task I undertake
with a full sense of the difficulty of adequately
expressing the extent to which the work of the
Meteorological Office is indebted for its success and
utility to your services, which have extended over

thirt"yI-ftouirs  years.           to  say  that  almost  every
                  no exaggeration
room in the Office and all its records give unmistak
able evidence of the active share you have always
taken in the direction of the operations of the Office.
The Council feel that the same high order of

intelligence and inventive faculty has characterised
your scientific work in Meteorology that has been
so conspicuous in many other directions, and has

long become known and appreciated in all centres

of intellectual activity.

    "With the Office entering upon a new phase of
its service to the public, it is impossible for the
Council not to feel that the work of the past thirty-

four years has only opened the way, as all good
work does, for further development. I am con
fident that you will still be interested in the success
of the undertaking in which you have had so great
a share, and the Council will value in the future, as

they have done in the past, any suggestion you may
make about the work of the Office.

    Believe me, very faithfully yours,

             (Sgd.) Richard Strachev, Chairman"
   KEW OBSERVATORY AND METEOROLOGY 243

     It is needless to say more than that I was greatly
touched by this letter. I was also so much impressed

with its literary skill, that on calling shortly after on
Sir Richard I begged him, as a matter about which
I felt curious on purely literary grounds, to tell me
its origin. He said that it was really his own writing,
though based on a draft prepared at the Office, and

added, "And it is all strictly true." Persons are to

be envied who can express their feelings so gracefully
as in that letter.
                    CHAPTER XVII

               ANTHROPOMETRIC LABORATORIES

Laboratory at the International Health Exhibition--That in the Science
      Gallery, South Kensington -- New instruments -- Finger-prints
      adopted by the Home Office -- Letter from M. Alphonse Bertillon

MY inquiries into hereditary genius, of which
           I shall speak in a later chapter, were suffi

ciently advanced before the year 1865 to show the
pressing necessity of obtaining a multitude of exact
measurements relating to every measurable faculty
of body or mind, for two generations at least, on
which to theorise. I therefore set myself to work
in many directions towards achieving this object, in
some cases for immediate use, in others to bear fruit

hereafter.

     The first attempt was to stimulate schools to weigh
and measure, which was successful at Marlborough
College, through the aid of the then Headmaster,
Dr. Farrar, afterwards Archdeacon of Westminster,
and later still Dean of Canterbury, who was enthusi
astic about all improvements. Subsequently, I wrote
an article in the Fortnightly Review, March 1882,
beginning with, " When shall we have Anthropometric

Laboratories, where a man may from time to time
get himself and his children weighed, measured, and
rightly photographed, and have each of their bodily

                                                                                    344
         ANTHROPOMETRIC LABORATORIES 245

faculties tested, by the best methods known to modern
           "
science       I went on to describe what could be done
         ?

in this way by existing methods, and what more it

was desirable to have.

     When the International Exhibition of 1884 was
under consideration, I offered to equip and maintain a

Laboratory there, if a suitable place were given, the

woodwork set up, and the security of it taken off my
hands. This was done, and I arranged a long narrow

enclosure with trellis-work, in front and at its ends.

A table ran alongside the trellis-work on which the

instruments were placed and where the applicants

were tested, and a passage was left between the table

and the wall. This gave a quasi-privacy, while it

enabled outsiders to see a little of what was going on

inside. A doorkeeper stationed at one end admitted

a single applicant at a time, who had to pay threepence.

The superintendent took him through the tests in

turn, and dismissed him at the other end with his

schedule filled up. Sometimes I helped him ; then

two persons could be tested together, the one a little

in advance of the other. The arrangement worked

smoothly, and the Laboratory was seldom unemployed.

The measurements dealt with Keenness of Sight

and of Hearing; Colour Sense, Judgment of Eye;

Breathing Power ; Reaction Time ; Strength of Pull
and of Squeeze ; Force of Blow ; Span of Arms ;

Height, both standing and sitting; and Weight.

The ease of working the instruments that were used

was so great that an applicant could be measured in

all these respects, a card containing the results

furnished him, and a duplicate made and kept for

statistical purposes, at the total cost of the threepenny
246 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

fee, already described, for admission. That just

defrayed the working expenses.

    It is by no means easy to select suitable instru

ments for such a purpose. They must be strong,

easily legible, and very simple, the stupidity and
wrong-headedness of many men and women being
so great as to be scarcely credible. I used at first

the instrument commonly employed for testing the

force of a blow. It was a stout deal rod running

freely in a tube, with a buffer at one end to be hit

with the fist and pressing against a spring at the

other. An index was pushed by the rod as far as it

entered the tube in opposition to the spring. I found

no difficulty whatever in testing myself with                but
                                it
                                                        it,
before long a man had punched so much on one

side, instead of hitting straight out, that he broke

the stout deal rod.     (it Itwas replaced by an oaken

one, but this too was broken, and some wrists wereis

sprained.

afterwards contrived, and used in subsequent
I                                      aa
                       pretty arrangement that gave thea
                    a
Laboratory,

swiftness, though not the force of the blow, with

absolute safety, and which could be used for other

limbs than the arm. The hand held thread, the

other end of which was tied to an elastic band, capable

of pulling back faster than any human hand could
;

      it
follow so the hand always retarded its movement. Its

speed was shown by the height to which             bead,

actuated by the string          needless to explain details),

was tossed up in front of a scale. This never failed,

and was perfectly easy to manipulate.

The observations made in this Laboratory were of

great use to me later on. Four hundred complete
ANTHROPOMETRIC LABORATORIES  247

sets are published in the Anthropometric Inst. Journal

 1884 [80], and afford good material for future use in

many ways.

      Among other instruments that I contrived then
or subsequently, were small whistles with a screw
plug, for determining the highest audible note, the
limit of which varies much in different persons and at

different ages. A parcel of schoolboys might inter

change very shrill and loud whistles quite inaudibly

to an elderly master. I found them to produce

marked effects on cats, and made many experiments

at a house where I often stayed, in which my bed

room window overlooked a garden much frequented

by them. My plan was to watch near the open

window, and when a cat appeared and had become
quite unsuspicious and absorbed, to sound one of
these notes inaudible to most elderly persons. The

cat was round in a minute. I noticed the quickness

and precision with which these animals direct their

eyes to the source of sound. It is not so with dogs.

      I contrived a hollow cane made like a walking

stick, having a removable whistle at its lower end,
with an exposed indiarubber tube under its curved
handle. Whenever I squeezed the tube against the
handle, air was pushed through the whistle. I tried
it at nearly all the cages in the Zoological Gardens,
but with little result of interest, except that it certainly
annoyed some of the lions. I have often met with

persons who perceived no purely audible sound when

very high notes were sounded, but who experienced

a peculiar feeling of discomfort which I have occasion
ally felt myself. This, I think, was the case with some
of the lions, who turned away and angrily rubbed
248 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

their ears with their paws, just as the persons of whom

I have spoken often did with their hands.                          ; is,

    It was difficult to find a simple machine that
would register the length of Reaction Time --that

the interval between Stimulus and the Response to
    say between a sharp sound and the pressure of a
it,                             a
              I                     a  first used one of
responding finger on key.              I
                                           it
Exner's earlier instruments, but                     took too much
                                                      a
time, so subsequently made one with pendulum.
                                                         it
The tap that released the pendulum from a raised
position made the required sound, --otherwise made
a quiet sight-signal, whichever was wished, --and the

responding finger caused an elastic thread parallel to

the pendulum and swinging with                       to be clutched
                                       ;

                                                 it
and held fast, in front of a scale, graduated to -p^ths
of a second. This acted well there was no jar from

seizing the elastic thread, and the adjustments gave

no trouble.

For testing the Muscular Sense, used cartridges
                                       a
packed evenly with cotton wool and with shot, so as
                                           I
to be exactly alike on the outsides but of different

weights. The weights ran in regular geometric

series, and were broken up into sets of three. Each

set lay  in      a grooved square of wood, in any order

the test was to arrange them by the sense of their

heaviness, in their proper order, as shown by the

inscriptions at one end of each. This method acted

quickly, because                was easy to judge by the some
a

                            it
times hesitating, sometimes decided manner in which

particular set was handled, whether or no the

differences were clearly perceived, and to substitute
others in turn more appropriate to the acuteness of

sense of the person tested.
ANTHROPOMETRIC LABORATORIES  249

      One hears so much about the extraordinary sensi
tivity of the blind, that I was glad of an opportunity
of testing a large number of children in an asylum.
The nature of the test was fully explained to them,

and that the most successful ones were to receive a

sweetmeat. It was evident that all did their best,

but their performances fell distinctly short of those
of ordinary persons. I found afterwards a marked
correlation between at least this form of sensitiveness

and general ability.
     After the Health Exhibition was closed in 1885,

it seemed a pity that the Laboratory should also
come to an end, so I asked for and was given a room
in the Science Galleries of the South Kensington
Museum. I maintained a Laboratory there during
about six years, and found an excellent man, Sergeant
Randal, for its Superintendent. Useful data were
obtained from this Laboratory, but I found that it
ought to be either in the hands of a trained scientific

superintendent, who would be competent to undertake

much more refined measurements than mine were

intended for, or else that a great many more persons

than I could tempt to attend should be roughly

measured.

     Some few notabilities came, among whom I would
especially mention Mr. Gladstone, whose measure
ments proved very acceptable to Mr. Brock the
sculptor, in making a posthumous statue of him for
Liverpool. Mr. Gladstone was amusingly insistent
about the size of his head, saying that hatters often
told him that he had an Aberdeenshire head -- " a fact

which you may be sure I do not forget to tell my
Scotch constituents." It was a beautifully shaped
250 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

head, though low, but after all it was not so very

large in circumference. Of those persons whom I

have mentioned in the foregoing chapters, the heads
of William Spottiswoode and Mr. Gassiott were

larger round ; Professor Sharpey's was the largest of

all. A slight want of symmetry on which Mr.

Gladstone laid stress was no peculiarity at all, for the

heads of  n"oMrmeaasl upreermsoennst  are  rarely quite symmetrical.
     The                                    Resemblance " between
                                       of

portraits is a subject on which I have been engaged off

and on during late years, and which I hope to take up
again. The best of my ideas at present is to prepare a

strip of card one inch broad and printed with numerals

of various standard sizes from 1 to 9. Then to mount
the portraits on slides actuated by strings, and to

station them at such distances that the interval between

the pupils of the eyes and the mouth in each portrait

shall be apparently the same as the breadth of the

strip. Then to interpose a wedge of tinted glass in

front of an eye-hole, and to slide it until the portraits

become indistinguishable. In that position to read
off the smallest of the standard numbers that is

simultaneously legible. I have made many experi

ments, differing in particulars, and described one of
them in Nature, October 4, 1906 [175], which

seems to me not so good as the one briefly outlined

above.

The chief value to me of the Laboratory during

the latter part of the time of its existence, and the

reason why I continued it so long, lay in the con

venience it afforded for obtaining and testing the

value of finger-prints. My interest in them arose

through a request to give a Friday evening lecture
      ANTHROPOMETRIC LABORATORIES                                         251

at the Royal                      Institution (which was  delivered May
25, 1888) on                      what is briefly called  " Bertillonage  "
                                                                              ;

that  on the system devised by M. Alphonse
      is,
Bertillon for identifying persons by the measurementsit, a

of their bodily dimensions. The subject was attract

ing much interest at the time, and had received a

great deal of off-hand newspaper praise. There

was, however, want of fulness in the published

accounts of                       while the principle upon which

extraordinarily large statistical claims to its quasi-
certainty had been founded was manifestly incorrect,

so further information was desirable. The incorrect

ness lay in treating the measures of different dimen

sions of the same person as they were independent
                                      if

variables, which they are not. For example,               Ia              tall

man   much more likely to have a long arm, foot,
a
or finger than a short one. The chances against
    I
mistake had been overrated enormously owing to
          is
this error still, the system was most ingenious and
                              ;;
very interesting.
        made the acquaintance of M. Bertillon during

short visit to Paris, and had the opportunity of

seeing his system at work. Nothing could exceed
the deftness of his assistants in measuring the

criminals their methods were prompt and accurate,

and all the accompanying arrangements excellently
organised. But had not means of testing its
                                  II
efficiency with closeness, which would have required
more time and interference with current work than

was permissible.                      was nevertheless prepared to give

an account at the Royal Institution of what had

seen, but, being desirous of introducing original work

of my own, gave to my lecture the more general
      1

        I
252 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

title of " Personal Identification and Description "

 [106], on which larger subject there was much new

 to be said.

      When thinking over the matter, the fact occurred
 to my recollection that thumb-marks had not infre

quently been spoken and written about, so I inquired
into their alleged use, especially by the Chinese. I

also wrote a letter to Nature asking for informa
tion, which had the important effect of drawing a
response from Sir William Herschel, who, as a Com

missioner in India, had actually used them in his
district, for many years, as a means of preventing
personation. But the system fell into disuse after

his departure. Sir William gave me every assistance,

by forwarding to me both old and modern finger
prints of himself and of others of his family, and in
showing his way of making the impressions.

      I took up the study very seriously, thinking that

finger-prints might prove to be of high anthropo
logical significance, but I may say at once that they
are not. I have examined large numbers of persons
of different races to our own, as Jews, Basques, Red
Indians, East Indians of various origins, Negroes,
and a fair number of Chinese. Also persons of very
different characters and temperaments, as students
of science, students of art, Quakers, notabilities of
various kinds, and a considerable number of idiots at

Earlswood Asylum, without finding any pattern
that was characteristic of any of them. But as I

continued working at finger-prints, their importance
as a means of identification became more and more

obvious, and since my theoretical work on Heredity,
Correlation, etc., of which I shall speak further, had
ANTHROPOMETRIC LABORATORIES  253

not yet "taken on," there was spare time for inquiry

into finger-prints.

I described the results in the above-mentioned

lecture so far as they had then been obtained, and

subsequently in a more advanced shape in a memoir

read before the Royal Society in 1891 [116]. It

was argued in it that these patterns had a theoretical
significance, which has not, I think, even yet been

adequately appreciated, which bears on discontinuity

in evolution. I showed that the different classes of

patterns in finger-prints might be justly compared

to different genera.  As, however, they had been

formed without any aid from natural selection, I

concluded that natural selection had no monopoly

in moulding genera, but that internal conditions

must be quite as important.

     I have always believed that the number of posi
tions of stability in every genus must be limited,

from which moderate deviations, but not great ones,

are possible without causing destruction. There are
limits which, if they can be overpassed without

disaster, would require a new position of stability

in the organisation. Comparatively few intermediate

finger-patterns are found between a "loop" and a

" whorl," these representing two different and well-

marked genera or positions of stability.

The modern division of views concerning the

immediate causes of evolution, whether it be due

to the slow accumulation of small factors or else by

the sudden mutations of de Vries, are paralleled by
those held by the physicists of the fifties on the

method by which a glacier adapts itself to its bed, just
as if it were a viscous body, which it certainly is not
254 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

in the ordinary sense of the word. Professor Tyndall

ascribed its adaptation of form to a succession of

internal crunches and re-freezings ; in other words,
to successive conditions of stability.

    It became gradually clear that three facts had

to be established before it would be possible to

advocate the use of finger-prints for criminal or other
investigations. First, it must be proved, not assumed,

that the pattern of a finger-print is constant through

out life. Secondly, that the variety of patterns is

really very great.    Thirdly, that  they admit  of being
so classified, or   " lexiconised,"  that when   a set of

them is submitted to an expert, it would be possible

for him to tell, by reference to a suitable dictionary,

or its equivalent, whether a similar set had been

already registered. These things I did, but they

required much labour.

    A Committee was appointed by the Home Office

to inquire into the different systems of identification

that had been adopted or proposed for use with

criminals. They visited my Laboratory, and thoroughly
inspected what I had to show. It was a great pleasure

to work with and for such sympathetic and keen

inquirers, but I regretted all the time that my methods

were hardly ripe for inspection ; still, they were fairly

adequate. The result was a Report strongly in

favour of their adoption, of which the part that bears

on finger-prints is reprinted in my Finger Print

Directory [130].
     I had communicated with M. Alphonse Bertillon,

suggesting that he should consider the introduction

of finger-prints into his own system, but the idea

did not commend itself to him. Afterwards I sent
         ANTHROPOMETRIC LABORATORIES                255

him further information on what had been more

recently done, to which he answered, on June 15, 1891,
that he was much disposed to add my method to his

own, especially for persons under age, but he feared

practical difficulties, such as in cleaning the fingers

after printing from them. Also it was a question

whether his assistants, who were but little educated,

would be zealous enough to learn a new method.

He ended by asking me, on the next occasion when

I happened to pass through Paris, to give a morning

to his Depot to experimentalise on the criminals
there. It has been stated more than once that the

finger-print system was initiated by M. Bertillon, so

I have mentioned these historical details, and give

his untranslated letter in a footnote.1 The omitted

portion refers to quite another matter, in which he

was then assisting me.

         I have said that my method was not so fully

elaborated as I should have wished when the

Committee examined so worked hard at after
                          a

                               si le

                                 ? it,

                                       I

                                                                      je

                                                                       it

                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                           :
wards, and published the results in 1895 in the book

already mentioned, bearing the title of Finger Print

Directory, using the term   "Directory" in the same sense
as in the familiar phrase   of " Post Office Directory."

It  was an unlucky choice of a word, for its equivalent

in French means Board of Directors, so its title

"        Extract from letter of M. Alphonse Bertillon, 15 fuin 891
   Je 1
         vous remercie de votre nouvel envoi relativement aux impressions

digitales. Je suis fort dispose" a ajouter votre proce"de au signalement
anthropometrique surtout pour les enfants. Mais     redoute quelques

difficultes pratiques pour  nettoyage des doigts aprcs l'impression

faite, etc. Puis mes agents peu instruits mettront-ils le zele ndcessaire

pour apprendre votre me'thode Je crois que vous traversez souvent
Paris, pourriez vous a votre prochain voyage, me consacrer une matinee

au Depot, pour un essayage sur la vile multitude?"
256 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

may have misled. This book contained a method
of classification far in advance of what I had published

before, and is in most essential points the same as
that in present use in Scotland Yard.

     Sir Edward, then Mr. Henry, when in office
in India, came to my Laboratory to learn the finger
print process, and he introduced it first into Bengal, and
afterwards throughout India. The Bertillon system
did not work at all well there, because measurements

had to be taken at many different local centres where
accuracy could not be guaranteed. Then Mr. Henry
was dispatched to the Cape, where great difficulty
had arisen about identification, and he introduced
finger-prints there also. After this he was called
to England, and soon selected to hold his present
important post. From what I have seen during the
few visits I have paid to Scotland Yard, the finger
print system answers excellently, and can deal easily

with many thousands of sets-- certainly with twenty

thousand.

      I hardly know over how large a part of the world
this system is now in use to the exclusion of other

methods. It is so in England, India, and Argentina.
It is used in connection with measurements in Brazil,
Egypt, and many other countries.

     It is necessary for its successful employment that

the clerks at the central Bureau should be thoroughly
acquainted with their work. There is much for them
to learn as to the uniform classification of many small
groups of often recurring patterns, and in realising
what is and what is not essential to identification.

Certain changes in the print may wholly depend on
          ANTHROPOMETRIC LABORATORIES 257

impression is usually made by what may be described
as the crests of the mountain ridges of the pattern ;
a strong pressure will show the connecting cols as
well, so the latter are unimportant. Decipherment
is a peculiar art. Gross differences are conspicuous
enough to an untrained eye, but even in these a novice
may sometimes contrive to make mistakes when an
imperfect impression is submitted to him. On the
other hand, the art of taking good prints is very easy,
and may be learnt in a single lesson by any intelligent
and handy man.

      Much has been written, but the last word has not
been said, on the rationale of these curious papillary
ridges ; why in one man and in one finger they form
whorls and in another loops. I may mention a
characteristic anecdote of Herbert Spencer in con
nection with this. He asked me to show him my
Laboratory and to take his prints, which I did. Then
I spoke of the failure to discover the origin of these
patterns, and how the fingers of unborn children had
been dissected to ascertain their earliest stages, and so
forth. Spencer remarked that this was beginning in
the wrong way ; that I ought to consider the purpose
the ridges had to fulfil, and to work backwards.
 Here, he said, it was obvious that the delicate mouths

of the sudorific glands required the protection given
to them by the ridges on either side of them, and
therefrom he elaborated a consistent and ingenious

hypothesis at great length.

     I replied that his arguments were beautiful and

deserved to be true, but it happened that the mouths of
 the ducts did not run in the valleys between the crests,
but along the crests of the ridges themselves. He

                   17
258 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

burst into a good-humoured and uproarious laugh, and

told me the famous story which I have heard from

each of the other two who were present on the

occurrence. Huxley was one of them. Spencer,

during a pause    in conversation at  dinner  at the
Athenaeum, said,                      think    but
                  " You would little
I

                   a

                                                                  it it,
                                                                           it it

                                                                       I
once wrote  tragedy." Huxley answered promptly,
" know the  catastrophe." Spencer declared was

impossible, for he had never spoken about before

then. Huxley insisted. Spencer asked what was.

Huxley replied, " A beautiful theory, killed by a

nasty, ugly little fact."
                  CHAPTER XVIII

  COMPOSITE PORTRAITS AND STEREOSCOPIC MAPS

Sir Edmund Du Cane and criminal characteristics -- Principle of
      composites -- Analytical photography -- Stereoscopic photographs of
      models of mountainous districts

        MY first idea of composite portraiture arose

1V1 through a request by Sir Edmund Du Cane,
R.E., then H.M. Inspector of Prisons, to examine

the photographs of criminals, in order to discover and
to define the types of features, if there be any, that
are associated with different kinds of criminality.
The popular ideas were known to be very inaccurate,
and he thought the subject worthy of scientific study.
I gladly offered to do what I could, and he gave me
full opportunities of seeing prisons and of studying a
large number of photographs of criminals, which were
of course to be used confidentially.

    At first, for obtaining pictorial averages I combined

pairs of portraits with a stereoscope, with more or less
success. Then I recollected an often observed effect
with magic lanthorns, when two lanthorns converge
on the same screen, and while the one is throwing its
image, the operator slowly withdraws the light from it
and throws it on to the next one. The first image yields
slowly to the second, with little sense of discordance

in the parts that at all resemble one another. It was
26o MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

obviously possible to photograph superposed images

on a screen by the simultaneous use of two or more

lanthorns. What was common to all of the images

would then appear vigorous, while individual

differences would be too faint for notice. There

would, however, be great difficulty in accurately super
posing them without the aid of expensive apparatus.
Then the idea occurred to me that no lanthorns were

needed for the purpose, but that the pictures them

selves might be severally adjusted in the same place,

and be photographed successively on the same
plate, allowing a fractional part of the total time of

exposure to each portrait.

     My earlier experiments were with the full-face

photographs of criminals. I selected three which
were not greatly unlike, and were of the same size,

as judged by measuring the vertical distance between
the pupils of the eyes and the parting of the lips.
Out of a thin card I cut a window of the size of the

portrait, and fastened two threads over one verti
                 I

                              it,
cal, the other crossways. Lastly made a pin-hole
in the card on either side of the window. Thus pro

vided, laid each portrait in turn on the table, and
I
              I
adjusted the card until the cross line passed over the

pupils of the eyes, and the vertical line bisected the
interval. Then pricked through the two pin-holes

the paper on which the portrait was.            could thus
                                      I
hang all three portraits one behind the other on twoI

pins that projected from a board, with the assurance

that the principal features of each face would occupy an

identical position in front of a fixed camera.  photo
graphed them in turns. The camera was uncapped

during one-third of the normal time of exposure while
COMPOSITE PORTRAITS, STEREOSCOPIC MAPS 261

the first portrait was in front of it. Capping it again,

I took away the front portrait and exposed the second,

then uncapping the camera I took the second portrait ;

and similarly the third. The result was particularly

promising ; it was difficult to believe that the com

posite was not a simple portrait. I tested the truth

of the result by placing the photographs in different

order, and by many other ways. Then I extended

its application. The method of composite portraiture

was first published in Nature, 1878, and more fully

in the Journ. Anthrop. Inst, 1879 [51], also in the
Journal of the Photographic Society, at which I
exhibited          and elsewhere. The method repub
I                                     is
                                                 I
              it,
lished in Human Faculty [76].
        gladly acknowledge my indebtedness to Sir

Edmund Du Cane not only for helping me with

material for these experiments, but for having, as

he told me, suggested the inclusion of my finger

print system in the instructions to the Committee of

Identification, described in the last chapter. He was

an extremely accomplished man, with high and

humane views, and sympathised with not a few of the

subjects on which have been engaged.
I
                    II
                       It
have successfully made many composites both of

races and of families. The composites are always

more refined and ideal-looking than any one of their

components, but found that persons did not like

being mixed up with their brothers and sisters in a

common portrait.           seems a curious and rather silly

feeling, but there can be no doubt of its existence.

see no other reason why composite portraiture should

not be much employed for obtaining family types.

Composites might be made of brothers and sisters,
262 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

parents and grandparents, together with a com

posite of the race, each in their due proportions,

according to the Ancestral Law (see chapter on
Heredity). The result would be very instructive, but

the difficulty of obtaining the material is now over

whelming. Male and female portraits blend well

together, with an epicene result.

    With the help of Dr. Mahomed and the per

mission of the authorities of Guy's Hospital, I took

many photographs of consumptive patients and made

composites of them, which are published in the Guy's

Hospital Reports, vol. xxv. They show two con

trasted types, the one fine and attenuated, the other

coarse and blunted. Dr. Mahomed was a very

promising physician, on the eve of becoming well

known, when he caught a fever of the same descrip

tion, I am told, as that on which he had become an

authority, and died of it in his newly purchased

house.

I could not make good composites of lunatics ;

their features are apt to be so irregular in different

ways that it was impossible to blend them. I took a
photographer with me to Hanwell, where it was

arranged that the patients should sit two at a time on
a bench. One of them was to be led forward and

posted in front of the camera, while his place on the

bench was filled by the second patient moving up

into whose previous place was to be occupied by a
it,
                a

               It

                                              I
third patient.  happened that the second of the

pair who were the first to occupy the bench considered

himself to be very mighty man, forget whom, but

let us say Alexander the Great. He boiled with

internal fury at not being given precedence, and when
COMPOSITE TORTRAITS, STEREOSCOPIC MAPS 263

the photographer had his head well under the velvet
cloth, with his body bent, in the familiar attitude of
photographers while focusing, Alexander the Great

slid swiftly to his rear and administered a really good
bite to the unprotected hinder end of the poor
photographer, whose scared face emerging from
under the velvet cloth rises vividly in my memory as
I write this. The photographer guarded his rear
afterwards by posting himself in a corner of the

room.

     Many years later, I tried to perform the exact
opposite to composite photography, namely, to annul
all that was typical in a portrait and to preserve its

peculiarities. I called it "Analytical Photography,"

and explained it in Nature, 1900, and in the Photo.

Soc. Jour., 1900-1901. It depends on the fact that
a positive and a negative glass plate, both in half
or still fainter tones, when held face to face neutralise

the peculiarities of one another, so the effect of their
combination is to produce a uniform grey. My plan
was to fix a negative composite in front of a positive
portrait of one of its elements, all in half tones, with

the result that the composite abstracted all the
typical portion of the portrait while its peculiarities
were isolated and remained. " Alice in Wonderland "
would have described it as the " grin without the
Cheshire Cat." I succeeded, but the result did not
give an intelligible idea of the peculiarities, the non
essentials being as strongly marked as the essentials,
and the whole making a jumble ; so I went no farther
with this process.

     In 1882 I published an illustrated memoir in
Nature on the conventional way in which artists
264 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

had hitherto represented a galloping horse. Mr.
Muybridge had, by means of beautiful photographs
of twenty momentary successive attitudes, recently
shown, beyond possibility of cavil, that the con
ventional representation was totally untrue to fact.
I asked myself the question why observant artists had

agreed for so long a time in drawing galloping horses
with their four legs extended simultaneously, and why

their representation had never been objected to. It
occurred to me that composites of successive attitudes

that were too momentary to be distinguished might
answer the question, which it did. When all of the
twenty attitudes are combined in a single picture, the
result is certainly suggestive of the conventional repre
sentation, though in a very confused way. Then,
finding by my own observation that it was difficult to
watch all four legs at the same time, also seeing that
according to the photographs of Mr. Muybridge, the
two fore legs were extended during one quarter of a
complete motion, and that during another quarter the
two hind legs were similarly extended, I made
composites of these groups separately. Then, cutting
them in half and uniting the front half of the former
to the hind half of the latter, a very fair equivalent

was obtained to the conventional attitude. I inferred

 that the brain ignored one-half of all it saw in the
 gallop, as too confused to be noticed ; that it divided
 the other half in two parts, each alike in one parti
 cular, and combined the two halves into a monstrous

 whole.

      This is a convenient place to speak of the method
 of stereoscopic maps, which I devised so long ago as
 1863. It was published together with specimens made
COMPOSITE PORTRAITS, STEREOSCOPIC MAPS 265

for me by my cousin, long since dead, R. Cameron

Galton, in the Proceedings of the Royal Geographical
Society [18] of that year. I cannot fully understand
why stereoscopes do not hold a higher position in popu

lar estimation than they do ; it may be partly due to

two causes -- to the fact that the two eyes are unequally

operative in a larger proportion of persons than might

be supposed, and to the cost and unwieldiness of the

usual stereoscope. Compound lenses give better and

wider images than plain ones, but for common

purposes I find that plain ones, mounted as in an eye

glass, serve quite well enough. Those I generally

use are cheap things, mounted in a strip of wood.
     I wished to obtain a map that should have the

effect of a model, so suitable models were procured

and photographed stereoscopically. The result was
a perfect success. An unexpected result occurred

when a pure white plaster cast was treated in this

way, for it wholly failed to give the required appearance
of a solid, but if grains of dust were sprinkled over
                                     it,
much more names were written on                          it,
if                                   the stereo

scopic effect appeared in its full strength. Good models,

and therefore stereoscopic maps made from them,

give a far better idea of a mountainous country than

any ordinary map can do, however cleverly  it  may

be shaded. Map-makers might well pay some at

tention to stereoscopic maps and to providing cheap

eyeglasses with which to view them.
                   CHAPTER XIX

                           HUMAN FACULTY

Measurement of mental powers -- Centiles -- Number forms --Visions of
      sane persons --Experiments on self-- Classification by judgment --
      Sandow -- Weight of cattle -- First and second prizes -- Arithmetic
      by smell -- Influences of gesture, voice, etc.

AFTER I had become satisfied of the inheritance
          of all the mental qualities into which I had
inquired, and that heredity was a far more powerful
agent in human development than nurture, I wished
to explore the range of human faculty in various
directions in order to ascertain the degree to which
breeding might, at least theoretically, modify the
human race. I took the moderate and reasonable
standpoint that whatever quality had appeared in man
and in whatever intensity, it admitted of being bred
for and reproduced on a large scale. Consequently
a new race might be created possessing on the average
an equal degree of quality and intensity as in the
exceptional case. Relative infertility might of course
stand in the way, but otherwise everything seemed
to show that races of highly gifted artists, saints,
mathematicians, administrators, mechanicians, con
tented labourers, musicians, militants, and so forth,
might be theoretically called into existence, the
average excellence of each race in its particular line
               HUMAN FACULTY                     267

being equal to that of its most highly gifted represen

tative at the present moment.

I desired to plan a laboratory in which Human

Faculty might be measured so far as possible, and, after

much inquiry and trouble, drew up and sent a printed

circular to experts, showing in outline what seemed

to me feasible, and drawing attention to desiderata.

Useful replies reached me from many quarters.

     There was no one to whose intelligent co-operation
I then owed more than Professor Croom Robertson

(1842-1892) of University College. His genius and
temperament were of the most attractive Scottish type
-- exact, sane, and very genial. He was well known

by his work on Hobbes, and as the founder and Editor
of the periodical Mind, in which his critical notices of

current philosophical literature were soon recognised

as of especial weight. He was a thorough friend,

whose death left a void in my own life that has never

been wholly filled.

The leading ideas of such a laboratory as I had

in view, were that its measurements should effectually

"sample" a man with reasonable completeness. It

should measure absolutely where it was possible,

otherwise relatively among his class fellows, the

quality of each selected faculty. The next step

would be to estimate the combined effect of these

separately measured faculties in any given proportion,

and ultimately to ascertain the degree with which the

measurement of sample faculties in youth justifies a

prophecy of    future success    in life, using  the word
" success" in  its most liberal  meaning.

The method of centiles (or of per-centiles as
I originally called was devised to give greater pre
                     it)
268 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

cision to the meaning of "class-place." The familiar

phrases of top of his class, near the top, half-way down

    and the like, express a great deal, but they expressit,
much more used in connection with the size of the

class. A useful way of reducing classes of all sizes

to a common one as follows. The names of the
         if
                                  the order of their class-
                       is
                              in
individuals are entered

places in a long column, beginning with the highest.

The names are separated by lines which resemble the

rungs of ladder, and will here be called rungs for
distinction. The interval between the lowest and
         a
                 is
highest rungs divided along the sides of the ladder

into equal parts to form a scale, usually one of 100o°
parts. In this the lowest rung stands at and the

highest at ioo°. Such divisions are called centiles.in

If the divisions are not hundredths, but otherwise

as tenths, eighths, or quarters, they are still called by

words ending in "-- ile," as decile, octile, and quartile.

The marks corresponding to the class-places at each
centile, decile, octile, or quartile, are independent of

the size of the class, except in that small degree to

which all statistical deductions are liable when derived

from different samples of the same store of material.
     The diagram opposite explains the process. For

reasons of space         adapted here to a class of only
                     it
                          is
                               it
                                   is
twelve individuals, but                applicable equally well to

classes however large, and the larger the better.

     The method of centiles affords a convenient and

compact way of comparing the amounts of specified
faculties in different individals. All this
                                             is        an

old tale now, but        had to take a great deal of
         it
              I
trouble before was clearly thought out and well

tested.
        HUMAN FACULTY                                269

                           Divisions of Scale.

Names.    Marks    Class-
              or   Place.
                                      Hundredths
        Measures.          Quarters.

                                             (Centiles).

                                      --0                 --

                   1st

                   2nd

                   3* -- Lower quanue -- --     ,,0       ~
                                                23

                   4th

                   Sth

                   - -6th
                           -- Middle quartile --
                   7th (Median)                 50°

                   8th

                   - -9th -- Upper quartile --
                   10th                         75°

                   nth

                   - -12th
                                             IOO°

     As it may interest persons to know how they
would stand among the visitants to a large London
Exhibition, I give a brief extract on next page from my

published table (Nature, January 8, 1885), [86], con
cerning those measured at the International Health
Exhibition.

     Suppose the reader to be a male adult, and the
strength of his pull as with a bow to be 78 lbs.,
he will learn that his class-place in that particular

is at the seventieth centile. In other words, that of
270 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

those measured at the above Exhibition about1 70
per cent. were weaker and 30 per cent. stronger.

     This little table contains excellent material for
comparing the powers of the two sexes.

    From Measurements made at the Anthropometric Laboratory in
                the International Health Exhibition of 1 884.

                                             Centiles.

  Subject of           Unit of  Sex.
Measurement.          Measure.

                                      IO° 3o° 5°° 7o° 9o°

/Height standing,")   |Inches   M.    64-5   66-5   67-9   69"2   71-3
   without shoes      |Inches   F.    59'9   62-1          64-6   66-4
                                M.    66- 1  68-2   63"3
Span of arms .        Pounds    F.                         7i-4   73"6
                                M.    59"S   617    699    64-5
/Weight in indoor")   \Cubic /  F.     125                        667
clothing  .             inches  M.            135   63-0    150
                                F.     '°5    114    143           165
Breathing capacity .  |Pounds   M.                   1 22   132    142
                                F.     177    199           236    277
/Strength of pulli                     102    124    219
   with a bow                                               IS"    177
                                         60    68    138             89
                                                       74     78
                                         32     36     40     44     5"

     One of my many inquiries related to what I called
" Number Forms " ; it originated in this way. Mr.
George Bidder, Q.C., son of the engineer who in
his youth was the famous "calculating boy" (1806-
1878), and who inherited and transmitted much of

his father's remarkable powers, wrote in a postscript
of a letter to me in response to other inquiries, that
he himself habitually saw numbers in his mind's eye,

     1 The word " about " is a slight reservation due to each class man,
being one-half place short of his nominal class-place. In a class of 100,
the topmost occupies the post of \, and the lowest that of 99$. There
are 101 divisions or "rungs" from o° to ioo° inclusive, but only 100
persons. The existence of this half place may be neglected by the
ordinary reader, though an expert would lay stress upon it.
HUMAN FACULTY  271

arranged in a peculiar form, of which he sent a

drawing. It began with the face of a clock,
numbered I. to XII., and then tailed off, much like

the tail of a kite, into an undulating curve, having
20, 30, 40, etc., at each bend. This prompted
me to ask others whom I met whether he or she

saw anything of the kind, and I received affirmative

replies from a few girls.
      I then went to my Club and successively asked

the same question of every friend whom I saw, but

invariably met with a more or less contemptuous

negative. Nothing daunted, I inquired further, and
soon found a goodly number of distinguished persons
who perceived these curious forms, no two of them
alike. After prolonged questioning in many direc
tions I gathered enough material for a memoir, and

being determined to publish it in a way that could

not be pooh-poohed, I selected six well-known friends
out of those who said that they saw them, and having

assured myself that they would speak to the veracity
of their several diagrams, I invited them all to a good
dinner, and took them to the meeting of the Anthro

pological Institute on March 9, 1880, where the
diagrams were hung up. These were G. Bidder,

Col. Yule, Rev. G. Henslow, Prof. Schuster, J.

Roget, and Mr. Wood Smith. They acted faithfully
up to their assurances, and so the fact of the existence
of Number-Forms was solidly established. Their

remarks are published in the Journal of the Anthro
pological Institute [63]. I possessed a collection of

most curious forms, not a few of them appearing in

three dimensions and drawn in perspective ; many
of them were coloured.
272 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

     Before quitting this subject I may be allowed to
tell a tale thereon. I had to deliver a lecture at the
British Association, in which these Number-Forms
were to be spoken of, and did a rash thing. It was
tIhsaatida, ft"erNodwes, cwribililngevetrhyeiprercshoanraicntetrhisanladrgferemqueeentciyn,g
who is conscious of seeing a Number-Form, hold up
his hand ? " There was a dead silence ; those who

should have responded were too shy to move, and
not a hand was raised. I suddenly bethought myself
of a tale that had not long since appeared in the
Times, as told by a German soldier to his comrades
over a bivouac fire, to account for a want of solidarity

in the French resistance. It was this, and I told it
with some variations to the meeting :--

     " The Chief Rabbi of Dantzig was a wealthy and

hospitable man. (I repeat what I read, and beg
pardon if the tale was applied to the wrong person.)

One day his house caught fire and even the contents
of his good cellar suffered. The Jews took counsel
what to do for their beloved Rabbi. First a hand

some subscription was proposed, but overruled ; then
another idea was mooted, then another, each less

costly than the preceding ; and at the last it was
agreed that every Jew should visit the house on a
day to be fixed, and bring with him a bottle of Eau

de Vie de Dantzig (the original said "wine"). That
after an appropriate speech of greeting to the Rabbi,

he should descend into the cellar and empty his bottle

into a vat prepared for the purpose. The day came,
the Chief Rabbi prepared a sumptuous collation, and
listened with delight to the flattering addresses of

his guests ; then, when the ceremony was concluded,
    HUMAN FACULTY                                    273

he went down to the cellar with his family, all of

them brimful of kindly feelings, to taste the result.

He turned the tap, a beautifully clear fluid ran into

his glass ; he lifted it with gratitude to his lips, when

suddenly his countenance fell ; he sipped a second

time and exploded in wrath, for the fluid was pure

water. The fact was that each Jew had said to
himself, ' What matters it whether I put in a spirit

which costs money, or water which costs nothing ?

My own contribution will make no sensible difference
to the total result.' As every Jew acted on this
principle, the result was pure water.
     " Now each of you who perceive Number-Forms

has acted in a similar way, so there has been no
response to my request ; but I cannot let the matter

drop, therefore I call on Professor S  , whom I see

on the platform, and who, I know, perceives these

Forms, to hold up his hand, and I trust then that

you who have hitherto abstained through shyness

will do so likewise."

The appeal succeeded ; up went Professor S           's

hand, and up went a multitude of scattered hands all

about the body of the hall.

In 1 88 1 I gave one of the Friday Evening
Lectures at the Royal Institution on the Visions of

Sane Persons [65], in which I dwelt on the far

greater frequency than was supposed, of hallucinations

and illusions among individuals in normal health, as

ascertained through numerous inquiries verbally or
by letter. It very often happened that the verbal
                                       like this, "
reply to my question took a form    ;   then, after  No, no ;
I've never had any hallucination "
                                                     a pause,

18
274 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

" Well, there certainly was one curious thing," etc.

etc.

     One afternoon at tea-time, before a meeting of
the Royal Society, Sir Risdon Bennett (1 809-1 891),
a well-known physician, President of the College of
Physicians in 1876, and a Fellow of the Royal Society,
drew me apart and told me of a strange experience
he had had very recently. He was writing in his
study separated by a thin wall from the passage,
when he heard the well-known postman's knock,
followed by the entrance into his study of a man

dressed in a fantastic medieval costume, perfectly
distinct in every particular, buttons and all, who, after

a brief time, faded and disappeared. Sir Risdon said

that he felt in perfect health ; his pulse and breathing
were normal, and so forth, but he was naturally
alarmed at the prospect of some impending brain
disorder. Nothing, however, of the sort had followed.
The same appearance recurred ; he thought the post
man's knock somehow originated the hallucination.

     I begged him to publish the curious case fully
with his name attached, as it would then become a

classical example, but he hesitated ; however, he did
ultimately publish it at some length in a medical

paper, but signed only with his initials. I wholly

forget its date. If any reader interested in these

things should come across the paper, these imperfect
but vivid recollections of mine may corroborate
such impressions as he would have of its veracity, for
I heard the story at length, very shortly after the
event, told me with painstaking and scientific exact
ness, and in tones that clearly indicated the narrator's

earnest desire to be minutely correct. I purposely
           HUMAN FACULTY                           275

omit many details, doubting the accuracy of my
own memory in those respects. There can be no

impropriety now in publishing the name hitherto

withheld.

"    I gave in the lecture   many examples of      guiding
   stars" and the like, and  referred to the fact  that the

visionary temperament has manifested itself largely

at certain historical times, and under certain conditions

of national life, and endeavoured to account for this

by the following considerations :--
   That the visionary tendency is much more common

among sane people than is generally suspected.

     In early life it seems to be a hard lesson for an

imaginative child to distinguish between the real and

the visionary world. If the fantasies are habitually

laughed at and otherwise discouraged, the child soon
acquires the power of distinguishing them ; any incon

gruity or nonconformity is quickly noted, the fact of

its being a vision is found out ; it is discredited, and

no further attended to. In this way the natural

tendency to see visions is blunted by repression.
Therefore, when popular opinion is of a matter-of-fact

kind, the seers of visions keep quiet ; they do not like

to be thought fanciful or mad, and they hide their

experiences, which only come to light through inquiries
such as those I have been making. But let the tide
of opinion change and grow favourable to supernatur-

alism, then the seers of visions come to the front. It

is not that a faculty previously non-existent has been

suddenly evoked, but that a faculty long smothered in

secret has been suddenly allowed freedom to express

itself, and it may be to run into extravagance owing
to the removal of reasonable safeguards.
 276 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

      The following experiments on Human Faculty
 are worth recording ; they have not been published
before. In the days of my youth I felt at one time a

 passionate desire to subjugate the body by the spirit,
and among other disciplines determined that my will
should replace automatism by hastening or retarding
automatic acts. Every breath was submitted to
this process, with the result that the normal power of

breathing was dangerously interfered with. It seemed

as though I should suffocate if I ceased to will. I

had a terrible half - hour ; at length by slow and
irregular steps the lost power returned. My dread
was hardly fanciful, for heart-failure is the suspension
of the automatic faculty of the heart to beat.

     A later experiment was to gain some idea of the

commoner feelings in Insanity. The method tried
was to invest everything I met, whether human,

animal, or inanimate, with the imaginary attributes
of a spy. Having arranged plans, I started on my
morning's walk from Rutland Gate, and found the

experiment only too successful. By the time I had
walked one and a half miles, and reached the cab

stand in Piccadilly at the east end of the Green Park,
every horse on the stand seemed watching me,

either with pricked ears or disguising its espionage.
Hours passed before this uncanny sensation wore off,
and I feel that I could only too easily re-establish

     The third and last experiment of which will

speak was to gain an insight into the abject feelings
of barbarians and others concerning the power of
images which they know to be of human handiwork.

  had visited large collection of idols gathered by
missionaries from many lands, and wondered how
I

                         a

                                                                   I

                                                                                                     it.
                 HUMAN FACULTY               277

each of those absurd and ill-made monstrosities could

have obtained the hold it had over the imaginations

of its worshippers. I wished, if possible, to enter
into those feelings. It was difficult to find a suitable

object for trial, because it ought to be in itself quite

unfitted to arouse devout feelings. I fixed on a comic

picture, it was that of Punch, and made believe in its

possession of divine attributes. I addressed it with

much quasi-reverence as possessing a mighty power to

reward or punish the behaviour of men towards andit,

found little difficulty in ignoring the impossibilities

of what    ;I  professed.  The experiment gradually
              I
succeeded        began to feel and long retained for the

picture a large share of the feelings that a barbarian

entertains towards his idol, and learnt to appreciate

the enormous potency they might have over him.

I  will mention here a rather weird effect that com

piling these "Memories" has produced on me. By

much dwelling upon them they became refurbished

and so vivid as to appear as sharp and definite as
things of to-day. The consequence has been an

occasional obliteration of the sense of Time, and to

replace    by the idea of a permanent panorama,
         it
                       is

                                                is
                                                      a
                                                                     is
                                                                                       is
painted throughout with equal vividness, in which

the point to which attention temporarily directed

becomes for that time the Present. The panorama

seems to extend unseen behind veil which hides

the Future, but slowly rolling aside and disclosing
it. That part of the panorama which
                                     veiled

supposed to exist as vividly coloured as the rest,
though latent. In short, this experience has given

me an occasional feeling that there are no reali

ties corresponding to Past, Present, and Future,
278 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

but that the entire Cosmos is one perpetual Now.

Philosophers have often held this creed intellectually,

but I suspect that few have felt the possible truth of

it so vividly as it  hadsweollicncgasioonnathllyeseap"peMaeremdoriteos."my
imagination through

     Many mental processes admit of being roughly
measured. For instance, the degree to which people

are bored, by counting the number of their Fidgets.

I not infrequently tried this method at the meetings

of the Royal Geographical Society, for even there

dull memoirs are occasionally read. A gallery in the
meeting room is supported by iron columns. The

portion of the audience as seen from the platform

who are bounded by two of these columns, and who sit

on two or three of the benches, are a convenient sample

to deal with. They can be watched simultaneously,

and the number of movements in the group per

minute can be easily counted and the average number

per man calculated. I have often amused myself

with noticing the increase in that number as the

audience becomes tired. The use of a watch attracts

attention, so I reckon time by the number of my

breathings, of which there are fifteen in a minute.

They are not counted mentally, but are punctuated by
pressing with fifteen fingers successively. The count

ing is reserved for the fidgets. These observations

should be confined to persons of middle age. Children

are rarely still, while elderly philosophers will some

times remain rigid for minutes together.

I will now revert to the problem with which I

started, of measuring by Classification, and will give

a few instances of its employment. Some years ago

I attended a meeting in the Albert Hall, at which
HUMAN FACULTY  279

 prizes of much value were to be awarded to the

 best made men in Sandow's gymnastic classes, as

estimated by three examiners, of whom Sir A. Conan

 Doyle was one, while Sandow himself acted as

 referee.

      I regret to have destroyed or mislaid the notes I
made, so the following description of the very instruc

tive ceremony may be inaccurate in small details.
      The prizes were three, of an aggregate value of

not far from ,£1000, and given by Mr. Sandow. He
had made a tour to his many centres of gymnastic
teaching in England, and picked out from each of

them the man or men who were most likely to stand
well in the competition. The day arrived ; I got a
good seat, and was prepared with an opera glass.
The competitors marched into the arena ; they were
about eighty in number, and they were in ranks of ten

abreast. They were stripped to the waist, but calico

cloths coloured something like a leopard skin were
thrown over their shoulders. So they marched round

the arena, then the front row discarded their leopard
skins, and jumped each man on to one of a row of

pedestals arranged in front of the organ. The
electric light was thrown on them. The three
examiners walked in front and behind, taking notes
and interchanging views. The man who was selected
as the best of this batch went to one side ; the others

rejoined their companions. The same proceeding

was gone through with the second row, and so
on successively to the end. Then the selected

ones came forward and stood on the pedestals as

before, and were examined still more minutely, if

possible. Finally, the first, second, and third man in
28o MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

order of their estimated merit were marched to the
middle of the hall to the tune of the " Conquering
Hero," and received their costly prizes in the form of
athletic groups in gold, silver, or bronze.

     The point that especially interested me was that
I had done my best to form just decisions of my
own, and that I had already selected those who came
second and third as among the best three. But I
had wrongly classed the first prizeman. However,
after the judges had made their award I recognised
the superior justness of their estimate to my own.
The power of classifying men correctly, by mere
inspection, seemed to me much greater after this
experience than before.

    A little more than a year ago, I happened to be at

Plymouth, and was interested in a Cattle exhibition,
where a visitor could purchase a stamped and
numbered ticket for sixpence, which qualified him to
become a candidate in a weight-judging competition.

An ox was selected, and each of about eight hundred

candidates wrote his name and address on his ticket,

together with his estimate of what the beast would
weigh when killed and " dressed " by the butcher.
The most successful of them gained prizes. The result
of these estimates was analogous, under reservation,
to the votes given by a democracy, and it seemed
likely to be instructive to learn how votes were dis
tributed on this occasion, and the value of the result.
So I procured a loan of the cards after the ceremony
was past, and worked them out in a memoir published

in Nature [177-8]. It appeared that in this instance

the vox populi was correct to within 1 per cent. of the
real value ; it was 1 207 pounds instead of 1 1 98 pounds,
                       HUMAN FACULTY

and the individual estimates were distributed in such

a way that it was an equal chance whether one of
them selected at random fell within or without the
limits of-- 3.7 per cent., or + 2.4 per cent. of the
middlemost value of the whole.

     The result seems more creditable to the trust
worthiness of a democratic judgment than might have
been expected. But the proportion of the voters who
were practised in judging weights undoubtedly sur

passed that of the voters in ordinary elections who
are versed in politics.

     I endeavoured in the memoirs just mentioned,
to show the appropriateness of utilising the Median
vote in Councils and in Juries, whenever they have to
consider money questions. Each juryman has his own
view of what the sum should be. I will suppose each
of them to be written down. The best interpretation

of their collective view is to my mind certainly not the
average, because the wider the deviation of an
individual member from the average of the rest, the

more largely would it effect the result. In short,
unwisdom is given greater weight than wisdom. In

all cases in which one vote is supposed to have one
value, the median value must be the truest representa
tive of the whole, because any other value would be

negatived if put to the vote. If it were more than the

median, more than half of the voters would think it too
much ; if less, too little. My idea is that the median
ought to be ascertained, which could be very quickly
done by the foreman, aided by one or two others of the
Jury, and be put forward as a substantial proposal, after
reading the various figures from which it was derived.

     This is a convenient place for speaking of an
282 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

analogous problem that interested me a few years
previously [159]. I have had more than once to
assist in determining how a given sum allotted for

prizes ought to be divided between the first and

second men when only two prizes are given. The

same problem has to be solved by the judges of

cattle shows, and itI              little generalised, of very

wide application.       is,

                          if

                                a
                         attacked both theoretically
                                     it
and practically, and got the same results both ways.is
When the number of candidates known, and the

distribution of merit follows the well-known Gaussian

law, the calculation     is  easy enough, but when the
                           is
number of candidates not known               it                   a different
                                                  is

matter moreover, the Gaussian law may not apply to
I
             ;
the case, though will probably do so pretty closely.it
So calculated what the ratios would be in classes of

different numbers and according to the Gaussian

law. The ratio in question           is     that between the

excess of the first performance over the third, and

the excess of the second performance over the third.

The third being the highest that gets no prize at all,

forms the starting-point of the calculation. When

the numbers of candidates were either                             10, 20, 50,
                                     I
                                                      3,

                                                              5,
100, 1,000, 10,000, or 100,000, found, to my surprise,

that the ratio was much the same. The appro

priate portion of the total of one hundred pounds

which should be allotted to the first prize proved to be

seventy-five pounds, leaving twenty-five or one-third

of its amount for the second prize. Even when the

number of candidates were at the minimum of 3, the
first prize would be £6j
                               ;     5,     would be £71          ;

                                 if     it                         if

10, would be ^73 and 100,000, would be ^75
it                    ;        if            it

(to the nearest whole figures).
                        HUMAN FACULTY                         283

Then, through the courtesy of Mr. Muir, the

Chief Examiner at the Education Office, I was

allowed to examine a large number of results from

the Civil Service Examinations, and found that the

average value of the first prize should be £74.
Taking groups of 50 cases, each group gave that

value pretty closely, no one differing as much as £4
from
      I it.

                                         (a

                                                          if
The subject has since been generalised and dis

cussed in Biometrika with far more mathematical skill

than possess, by both Professor Karl Pearson and

Mr. W. F. Sheppard      former Senior Wrangler),

with practically the same result, so that only two

prizes are to be given, whatever be the character of

the competition, and whatever the number of candi

dates, the first prize should in round numbers be

three times the value of the second.

Professor Max Miiller had, in a work dated 1886

or 887, laid an exaggerated stress, as considered, on
1                           I
                                     I
                     a
language as means of thought, upon which wrote   I

some remarks in Nature [98], entitled "Thought   I
without Words," which led to a short newspaper

controversy, June 2, between us two. My point
was that myself thought hardest when making no
      I

mental use of words. Professor Max Miiller's

definitions of what he considered "words" seemed

to me to vary, and therefore to be elusive, so did

not and will not pursue the matter farther.

It    led, however, to the idea of an experiment that

seemed worth making, which  described [128] as

"Arithmetic by Smell." When we propose to add,
and hear the spoken words "two" and "three," we
284 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

instantly through long habit say "five." Or if we

see those figures, we have a mental image, and
write 5. Surely, Sound and Sight-symbols are not
the only Sense-symbols by which arithmetic could

be performed.
     Leaving aside Colour, Touch, and Taste, I

determined to try Smells. The scents chiefly used

were peppermint, camphor, carbolic acid, ammonia,
and aniseed. Each scent was poured profusely on
cotton wool loosely packed in a brass tube, with a

nozzle at one end. The other end was pushed tightly

into a caoutchouc tube, whose free end was stopped

with a cork. A squeeze of the tube caused a whiff

of scented air to pass through the nozzle. When
the squeeze was relaxed, fresh air was sucked in
and became scented by the way. I taught myself
to associate two whiffs of peppermint with one of
camphor, three of peppermint with one of carbolic

acid, and so on. Next, I practised small sums in

addition with the scents themselves, afterwards with
the mere imagination of them. I banished without
difficulty all visual and auditory associations, and
finally succeeded perfectly. Thus I fully convinced
myself of the possibility of doing sums in simple
addition with considerable speed and accuracy, solely
by imagined scents. I did not care to give further

time to this, as I only wanted to prove a possibility,

but did make a few experiments with Taste, that
promised equally well, using salt, sugar, quinine, and
citric acid.

      I have once in my life experienced the influence
of Personal Ascendancy in that high degree which
                 HUMAN FACULTY                          285

some great personalities have exercised, and the

occasion of which I speak was the more striking

owing to the absence of concurrent pomp. It was

on Garibaldi's arrival in London, where he was hailed

as a hero. I was standing in Trafalgar Square when

he reached   it, driving up Parliament Street. His

vehicle was a shabby open carriage, stuffed withI

Italians, regardless of style in dress; Garibaldi alone

was standing.      had not been in a greatly excited

or exalted mood, but the simplicity, goodness, and

nobility impressed on every lineament of Garibaldi's

face and person quite overcame me.        realised then
                                       I
what never did before or after, something of theI
I                                                          I

impression that Jesus seems to have exercised on
multitudes on more than one occasion.
                                          am grateful

to that experience for revealing to me the hero-

worshipping potentialities of my nature.

When the late Mr. Spurgeon first made his repu

tation, went, as many others did, to hear him.
        I

was in the gallery of his "Tabernacle," which was

said to hold 11,000 persons, and in which certainly

9000 were then present, as roughly counted by my
self. The men had their hats on, and conversation

was unchecked. Suddenly there was a slight stir

that travelled through the crowd, and the almost

childlike features of the young preacher came into

view as he rose from below and mounted the platform.

He simply raised his hand there was a simultaneous
        It

                       a

                                  I;

                                                    It
removal of hats and a great hush, and then the words

began.      was marvellous instance of the com

manding power of a simple gesture.

One more instance, and have done.                       occurred

towards the close of my undergraduate days at
286 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Cambridge at a festival which I will not particularise

further than to say it was partly solemn at first, and

broadened into good fellowship without any excess.

oSfonTgesnnwyseoren'ssunega,rlyan"d   J. Mitchell Kemble, the  subject
                                     Ode to J. M. K.," 1 gave  time to

the chorus of one of the songs by raising his arm and

moving his glass. By those most simple gestures, he

drove us all into an enthusiasm, comparable with

that to which negroes are occasionally driven by an

accurately timed tom-tom. In one of Bulwer's novels,

the performer in a barn exercises equal power over

his audience by the movements of a stick.

The human senses, when rythmically stimulated in

certain exact cadences, are capable of eliciting over

whelming emotions not yet sufficiently investigated.

     1 Nephew of the two great actors, John Philip Kemble and of Mrs.
Siddons ; brother of Adelaide and of Fanny Kemble, and having at least
four other near relations who were noted actors.
              CHAPTER XX

              HEREDITY

Early inquiries -- Hereditary Genius -- English Men        of  Science --
      Family records -- Nature and Nurture -- Experiments      Free Will
                                                           on
-- Pangenesis and transfusion of blood -- Heredity concerned with
deviations -- Experiments on peas -- Regression -- Ancestral law

THE publication in 1859 of the Origin of Species
          by Charles Darwin made a marked epoch in

my own mental development, as it did in that of

human thought generally. Its effect was to demolish

a multitude of dogmatic barriers by a single stroke,

and to arouse a spirit of rebellion against all ancient

authorities whose positive and unauthenticated state

ments were contradicted by modern science.

I doubt, however, whether any instance has

occurred in which the perversity of the educated

classes in misunderstanding what they attempted to
                               "coNnastpuicrauol uSs.elecTthioen
discuss  was   more painfully                                     mean
         the  simple phrase                                       " was
ing of

distorted in curiously ingenious ways, and Darwinism

was attacked, both in the press and pulpit, by persons

who were manifestly ignorant of what they talked
about. This is a striking instance of the obstructions

through which new ideas have to force their way.

Plain facts are apprehended in a moment, but the

introduction of a new Idea is quite another matter, for

it requires an alteration in the attitude and balance of
288 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

the mind which may be a very repugnant and even
painful process. On my part, however, I felt little

difficulty in connection with the Origin of Species, but

devoured its contents and assimilated them as fast

as they were devoured, a fact which perhaps may be
ascribed to an hereditary bent of mind that both its
illustrious author and myself have inherited from our
common grandfather, Dr. Erasmus Darwin.

      I was encouraged by the new views to pursue
many inquiries which had long interested me, and
which clustered round the central topics of Heredity
and the possible improvement of the Human Race.
The current views on Heredity were at that time so
vague and contradictory that it is difficult to summar
ise them briefly. Speaking generally, most authors
agreed that all bodily and some mental qualities were
inherited by brutes, but they refused to believe the
same of man. Moreover, theologians made a sharp
distinction between the body and mind of man, on

purely dogmatic grounds. A few passages may un

doubtedly be found in the works of eminent authors

that are exceptions to this broad generalisation, for
the subject of human heredity had never been squarely

faced, and opinions were lax and contradictory. It

seems hardly credible now that even the word heredity
was then considered fanciful and unusual. I was chaffed

 by a cultured friend for adopting it from the French.
      I had been immensely impressed by many obvious

 cases of heredity among the Cambridge men who

were at the University about my own time. The
 Classical Class List was first established in 1824,
consequently the number of " Senior Classics " up to
 1864 inclusive was 41, that is to say, the names of
HEREDITY  289

the 41 very first men in Classics at Cambridge in
each of these 41 years were known and published.

It will be sufficient as an example to give the names

of 7 of these Senior Classics, all of whom had a
father, brother, or son whose success was as notable

as their own (I count a Senior Wrangler as equal
to a Senior Classic). They are : 3 Kennedys,
2 Lushingtons, 1 Wordsworth, and 1 Butler. This

fact alone would justify a serious attempt to inquire
into Hereditary Ability, and I soon found the power
of heredity to be as fully displayed in every other
direction towards which I turned. The Myttons

mentioned in Chapter VIII. were an unquestionable

instance of a very peculiar hereditary temperament.
   After many months of hard work, I wrote, in 1865,

two preliminary papers in Macmillaris Magazine,
entitled "Hereditary Talent and Character" [20].
These contain the germs of many of my subsequent
memoirs, the contents of which went to the making
of the following books: Hereditary Genius, 1869;
English Men of Science, 1874; Human Faculty,
1883; Natural Inheritance, 1889; and to my quite
recent writings on Eugenics. On re-reading these
articles, I must say that, considering the novel

conditions under which they were composed, and
notwithstanding some crudeness here and there, I am

surprised at their justness and comprehensiveness.

It has fortunately been my usual habit (sometimes

omitted) of keeping copies of my various memoirs,
which are now bound in volumes. There are con

sider lbly more than a hundred and seventy publica
tions in all, as will be gathered from the not wholly
complete list in the Appendix, and I am pleased to

               19
290 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

find myself still in accord with nearly every one of
those recently re-read or referred to.

     Hereditary Genius [22] made its mark at the
time, though subjected to much criticism, no small

part of which was captious or shallow, and therefore

unimportant. The verdict which I most eagerly
waited for was that of Charles Darwin, whom I

ranked far above all other authorities on such a

matter. His letter, given below, made me most

happy.                    " Down, BecykdenDheacemm,beKr ent, S.E.

" My dear Galton, -- I have only read about 50
pages of your book (to Judges), but I must exhale
myself, else something will go wrong in my inside.
I do  not think I   ever   in all
       interesting  and   original  m--y   life  read  anything
more                                      and    how   well and

clearly you put every point ! George,1 who has
finished the book, and who expressed himself in just
the same terms, tells me that the earlier chapters are

nothing in interest to the later ones! It will take

me some time to get to these latter chapters, as it is
read aloud to me by my wife, who is also much in
terested. You have made a convert of an opponent
in one sense, for I have always maintained that,
excepting fools, men did not differ much in intellect,
only in zeal and hard work ; and I still think this is
an eminently important difference. I congratulate
you on producing what I am convinced will prove
a memorable work. I look forward with intense

interest to each reading, but it sets me thinking so
much that I find it very hard work ; but that is
              --fauYltouorfsmmy(oSbsirtganisneindac)nedrenlyo,t"Cofhy. oDurabrweainuti"fully
wholly the
clear style.

1 Now Professor Sir George H. Darwin, K.C.B., F.R.S., etc.
HEREDITY  291

     The rejoinder that might be made to his remark
about hard work, is that character, including the

aptitude for work, is heritable like every other faculty.

     I had been overworked, and unable to give as

close attention as desirable while correcting the

proofs, so mistakes were to be feared. Happily there
were not many, but one was absurd, and I was justly
punished. It was due to some extraordinary com
mingling of notes on the families of Jane Austen and
of Austin the jurist. In my normal state of health
the mistake could not have been overlooked, but

there it was. I was at that time a member of the

Committee of the Athenaeum Club, among whose
members there happened to be a representative of
each of the above families, who "gave it me hot,"

 though most decorously.

      I had much pleasant correspondence at a later

 date with Alphonse de Candolle, son of the still
 greater botanist of that name. He had written a
 very interesting book, Histoire des Sciences et des

 Savants depuis deux Siecles, in which he analysed the
 conditions that caused nations, and especially the
 Swiss, to be more prolific in works of science at one

 time than another, and I thought that a somewhat

 similar investigation might be made with advantage
 into the history of English men of science.

      It was a daring undertaking, to ask as I did, in

 1874, every Fellow of the Royal Society who had

 filled some important post, to answer a multitude of
 Questions needful for my purpose, a few of which

 touched on religion and other delicate matters. Of

 course they were sent on the distinct understanding
 that the answers would be used for statistical pur
 292 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

 poses only. I took advice on the subject, notably of
 Herbert Spencer, and I think (though I cannot say
for certain) from Dr. W. Farr also. Dr. W. Farr
(1807-83) was the head of the Registration Depart
ment in Somerset House. I frequently consulted
him, and always to my advantage, for he was highly
gifted and cultured. He was most sympathetic, and
keenly appreciated what might be called the poetical
side of statistics, as shown by his Annual Reports
and other publications.

     The size of my circular was alarming. Though
naturally very shy, I do occasional acts, like other shy
persons, of an unusually bold description, and this was
one. After an uneasy night, I prepared myself on the
following afternoon, and not for the first time before
interviews that were likely to be unpleasant, by what
is said to have been the usual practice of Buffon before

writing anything exceptional, namely, by dressing my
self in my best clothes.

      I can confidently recommend this plan to shy men
as giving a sensible addition to their own self-respect,

and as somewhat increasing the respect of others. In
this attire I went to a meeting of the Royal Society,

prepared to be howled at ; but no ! my victims, taken
as a whole, tolerated the action, and some even ap
proved of

     Much experience of sending circular questions has
convinced me of the impossibility of foretelling whether
a particular person will receive them kindly or not.
Some are unexpectedly touchy. In this very case, a
man of high scientific distinction, with whom was
well acquainted, who was of good social position, of
it.

                                                  I
HEREDITY  293

 all of which were honourable, and whose biography

 has since disclosed no skeleton in the cupboard, was
 almost furious at being questioned. On the other

 hand, a Cabinet Minister, whom I knew but slightly,

 gave me full and very interesting information without

 demur.

      The results of the inquiry showed how largely the

 aptitude for science was an inborn and not an acquired
 gift, and therefore apt to be hereditary. But, in not
 a few instances, the person who replied was a " sport,"
 being the only one of his family who had any care for
 science, and who had persevered in spite of opposition.
 The paternal influence generally superseded the mater
 nal in early life, though the mother was usually spoken
of with much love, and very often described as par

ticularly able. This seemed to afford evidence that

the virile, independent cast of mind is more suitable

 to scientific research than the feminine, which is apt

 to be biased by the emotions and to obey authority.
 But I have said my say long since in the book English

Men of Science [36], and must not reiterate.
     The dearth of information about the Transmission

of Qualities among all the members of a family during
two, three, or more generations, induced me in 1884-85
to offer a sum of ^500 in prizes to those who most
successfully filled up an elaborate list of questions
concerning their own families. The questions were
contained in a thin quarto volume of several pages,

printed and procurable at Macmillan's, cost price, which
referred to the Grandparents, Parents, Brothers, Sisters,
and Children, with spaces for more distant relatives.

A promise was given, and scrupulously kept, that they
294 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

had a goodly response, and the names of the prize

winners were duly published in the newspapers. I

was much indebted, when devising the programme
and other prefatory details, both to Professor Allman
(1 8 1 2-1 898), the biologist, and to my old friend at
King's College, Mr. (afterwards Sir) John Simon. The
material afforded by the answers proved of considerable
importance, and formed the basis of much of my future
work. I had it extracted in a statistical form, in con

siderable detail, which was of much value to Professor

Karl Pearson at the outset of his inquiries, before

he had been able to collect better and much more

numerous data of his own. It will be convenient to
defer speaking of the results of all this until the last

chapter.

      I had long tried to gain some insight into the
relative powers of Nature and Nurture, in order that
 due allowance might be made for Environment, neither
 too much nor too little, but without finding an ade

quate method of obtaining it. At length it occurred

 to me that the after-history of those twins who had
 been closely alike as children, and were afterwards
 parted, or who had been originally unlike and after
 wards reared together, would supply much of what
 was wanted. So I inquired in all directions for ap
 propriate cases, and at length obtained a fair supply,
 on which an article in Frazer's Magazine, Nov. 1875,1
 was written. The evidence was overwhelming that
 the power of Nature was far stronger than that of

1 It was revised and added to in the Journal of the Anthropological
Institute,  1875 [43], and then incorporated   into Human     F"aEcvueltryy,ma18n8's3
(which is   now republished in an exceedingly  cheap form in

Library  ").
                HEREDITY                         295

Nurture, when the Nurtures of the persons compared

were not exceedingly different. It appeared that

when twins who had been closely alike had after

wards grown dissimilar, the date of divergence was
usually referred to a time when one of them had a

serious illness, sufficient to modify his constitution.
     Many years later I was so harassed with the old

question of Determinism, which would leave every

human action under the control of Heredity and

Environment, that I made a series of observations on

the actions of  my own mind in relation to Free  Will.
I employ the     word not merely as meaning      " un
hindered " but in the special sense of an uncaused and
creative action. It was carried on almost continuously

for six weeks, and off and on for many subsequent

months [55]. The procedure was this.    Whenever I
caught myself in an act of what seemed  to be " Free
Will " in the above sense, I checked myself and tried

hard to recollect what had happened before, made rapid

notes, and then wrote a full account of the case. To
my surprise, I found, after some days' work, that the

occasions were rare on which there seemed room for

the exercise of Free Will as defined above. I

subsequently reckoned that they did not occur oftener

than once a day. Motives for all the other events

could be traced backwards in succession, by orderly

and continuous steps, until they led into a tangle of

familiar paths. It was curious to watch the increase

of power given by practice, of recalling mental actions

which being usually overlooked give the false idea

that much has been performed through a creative act,

or by inspiration, which is really due to straight
296 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

more fully gone into here ; I must refer to the Memoir
itself. The general result of the inquiry was to
support the views of those who hold that man is little
more than a conscious machine, the slave of heredity
and environment, the larger part, perhaps all, of
whose actions are therefore predictable. As regards
such residuum as may not be automatic but creative,
and which a Being, however wise and well-informed,
could not possibly foresee, I have nothing to say, but
I found that the more carefully I inquired, whether it
was into hereditary similarities of conduct, into the
life-histories of twins, or introspectively into the
actions of my own mind, the smaller seemed the
room left for this possible residuum.

      Many possibilities suggested themselves after
reading Darwin's "Provisional theory of Pangenesis."
One was that the breed of a race might be sensibly
affected by the transfusion of blood from another

variety. According to Darwin's theory, every element
of the body throws off gemmules, each of which can
reproduce itself, and a combination of these gemmules

forms a sexual element. If so, I argued, the blood

 which conveys these gemmules to the places where
 they are developed, whether to repair an injured part
or to the sexual organs, must be full of them. They
 would presumably live in the blood for a considerable

 time. Therefore, if the blood of an animal of one
 species were largely replaced by that of another,

 some effect ought to be produced on its subsequent

 offspring. For example, the dash of bull-dog tenacity
 that is now given to a breed of greyhounds by a

 single cross with a bull-dog, the first generation cor
HEREDITY  297

responding to a mulatto, the second to a quadroon,

the third to an octoroon, and so on, might be given at
once by transfusion. Bleeding is the simplest of

operations, and I knew that transfusion had been
performed on a large scale ; therefore I set about

making minute inquiries.

      These took a long time, and required much con

sideration. At length I determined upon trying the

experiment on the well-known breed of rabbits called

silver greys, of which pure breeds were obtainable,
and to exchange much of their blood for that of the
common lop-eared rabbit ; afterwards to breed from
pairs of silver greys in each of which alien blood had
been largely transfused. This was done in 1871 on
a considerable scale. I soon succeeded in establishing

a vigorous cross-circulation that lasted several minutes
between rabbits of different breeds, as described in

the Proceedings of the Royal Society, 1871 [25].
The experiments were thorough, and misfortunes
very rare. It was astonishing to see how quickly the
rabbits recovered after the effect of the anaesthetic
had passed away. It often happened that their
spirits and sexual aptitudes were in no way dashed
by an operation which only a few minutes before had
changed nearly one half of the blood that was in their
bodies. Out of a stock of three silver grey bucks
and four silver grey does, whose blood had been thus
largely adulterated, and of three common bucks and

four common does whose blood had been similarly
altered, I bred eighty-eight rabbits in thirteen litters

without any evidence of alteration of breed. All this

is described in detail in the Memoir.
298 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

delicate operations, my own part was confined to

inserting cannulae and the like. At first Dr. Murie
did all the dexterous and difficult work. He had

been a traveller in company with Consul Petherick,
far up the White Nile, and was then Prosector at

the Zoological Gardens. I called on him to discuss

the matter. A dead cobra was lying on his table,

and on my remarking that I had never properly seen

a poison fang, he coolly opened the creature's mouth,

pressed firmly at exactly the right spot, and out started

that most delicate and wicked-looking thing, with a

drop of venom exuding from just in front of his
     I
         I

                                                         it,
nail.  thought that a man who was so confident of

his anatomical knowledge and of his nerve as to dare

such an act, must be an especially suitable person to

conduct my experiments, and was fortunate enough

to secure his co-operation.

        continued the experiments for another generation
of rabbits beyond those described in the Proc. Royal

Society, with equally negative results. Mr. Romanes

subsequently repeated the experiments with my in

struments, and they corroborated my own. So this

point seems settled.

     The laws of Heredity are concerned only with

deviations from the Median, which have to be

translated from whatever they were measured by,

whether in feet, pounds weight, intervals of time, or

any other absolute standard, into what might be
called " Statistical Units." Their office
                                                              is  to make

the variabilities of totally different classes, such as

horses, men, mice, plants, proficiency in classics, etc.
                                 HEREDITY                               299

of each series is derived from the series itself. There
is more than one kind of them, but they are all

mutually convertible, just as measures recorded in
feet are convertible into inches. The most con
venient unit for purpose of explanation, though not
for calculation, is the half difference between the

marks or measures corresponding to the lower or

to the upper quartiles respectively.1

      Deviations expressed in statistical units are
usually found to conform with much closeness to
the results of a certain theoretical law, discovered

by Gauss, the great mathematician, and properly
called by his name, though more familiarly known

as the Normal Law. It supposes all variability to be

due to different and equally probable combinations

of a multitude of small independent causes. The
relative frequency of different amounts of these,

reckoned in statistical units, can thence be computed.

It is done by refined methods based on the same general
principles as those by which sequences of different
lengths, in successive throws of dice, are determined.

    Results of the computation are shown in the bottom
line of the following small table :--

           Centiles and Corresponding Deviation from the Median.

   Centiles    10th 20th 30th 40th 50th 60th 70th 80th 90th
   Deviations
               - 1-90 - 1 '25 -078 -0-38 -0  + 0-38 + 078 + f2S + 1 '90

"    1 This    unit is known by  the uncouth and not easily  justified  name of
   Probable      Error," which   I suppose is intended to    express    the fact

that the number of deviations or "Errors" in the two outer fourths

of the series is the same as those in the two middle fourths ; and

therefore the probability is equal that an unknown error will fall into

either of these two great halves, the outer or the inner.
300 MEMORIES OP MY LIFE

     The deviation at the 25th is -- 1, that at the 75th
is + 1 ; so the difference between them is 2, and the

half difference is 1 .

     As these lines are being written, the circumstances
under which I first clearly grasped the important
generalisation that the laws of Heredity were solely

concerned with deviations expressed in statistical

units, are vividly recalled to my memory. It was in
the grounds of Naworth Castle, where an invitation
had been given to ramble freely. A temporary

shower drove me to seek refuge in a reddish recess
in the rock by the side of the pathway. There the
idea flashed across me, and I forgot everything else
for a moment in my great delight.

     The following question had been much in my
mind. How is it possible for a population to remain

alike in its features, as a whole, during many suc

cessive generations, if the average produce of each
couple resemble their parents? Their children are

not alike, but vary : therefore some would be taller,
some shorter than their average height ; so among
the issue of a gigantic couple there would be usually
some children more gigantic still. Conversely as to
very small couples. But from what I could thus far

find, parents had issue less exceptional than them
selves. I was very desirous of ascertaining the
facts of the case. After much consideration and
many inquiries, I determined, in 1885, on experi
menting with sweet peas, which were suggested to

me both by Sir Joseph Hooker and by Mr. Darwin.
Their merits are threefold. They have so little

tendency to become cross-fertilised that seedsmen
HEREDITY  301

neighbouring beds ; all the seeds in their pods are
of the same size, that is to say, there is no little pea
at the end as in the pod of the common pea, and
they are very hardy and prolific. I procured a large
number of seeds from the same bin, and selected

seven weights, calling them K (the largest), L, M, N,

O, P, and Q (the smallest), forming an arithmetic

series. Curiously, their lengths, found by measuring
ten of a kind in a row, also formed an arithmetic

series, owing, I suppose, to the larger and plumper
seeds being more spherical and therefore taking less
room for their weight than the others. Ten peas of

each of these seven descriptions, seventy in all, formed
what I called a "set."

     I persuaded friends living in various parts of the
country, each to plant a set for me. The uniform

method to be followed was to prepare seven parallel

beds, each 1^ feet wide and 5 feet long, to
dibble ten holes in each at equal distances apart,

and 1 inch in depth, and to put one seed in each
hole. The beds were then to be bushed over to
keep off the birds. As the seeds became ripe they
were to be gathered and put into bags which I sent,

lettered respectively from K to Q; the same letters

having been stuck at both ends of the beds. Finally,

when the crop was coming to an end, the whole
foliage of each row was to be torn up, tied together,

and sent to me. All this was done, and further
minute instructions, which I need not describe here,

were attended to carefully. The result clearly proved
Regression ; the mean Filial deviation was only one-
third that of the parental one, and the experiments
302 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

descent from one generation of a people to the next,

showed that the generations would be identical if

this kind of Regression was allowed for.1
     In 1886 I contributed two papers [91, 92] to the

Royal Society on Family Likeness, having by that

time got my methods for measuring heredity into

satisfactory shape. I had given much time and
thought to Tables of Correlations, to display the

frequency of cases in which the various deviations

say in stature, of an adult person, measured along

the top, were associated with the various deviations

of stature in his mid-parent, measured along the side.

(I had long used the convenient word "mid-parent"

to express the average of the two parents, after the

stature or other character of the mother had been

changed into its male equivalent.) But I could not see

my way to express the results of the complete table in

a single formula. At length, one morning, while wait

ing at a roadside station near Ramsgate for a train,

and poring over the diagram in my notebook, it

struck me that the lines of equal frequency ran in

concentric ellipses. The cases were too few for

certainty, but my eye, being accustomed to such

things, satisfied me that I was approaching the

solution. More careful drawing strongly corroborated

the first impression.

    All the formulae of Conic Sections having long
since gone out of my head, I went on my return

to London to the Royal Institution to read them up.

Professor, now Sir James, Dewar, came in, and probably

noticing signs  of despair  "inWmhyy  face, asked me  what
                                      do you bother   over
I was about ;   then said,

1 See Pres. Address, Section H, Brit. Assoc. Aberdeen, 1885 [87].
               HEREDITY                              3°3

this? My brother-in-law, J. Hamilton Dickson of

Peterhouse, loves problems and wants new ones.
Send it to him." I did so, under the form of a

problem in mechanics, and he most cordially helped

me by working it out, as proposed, on the basis

of the usually accepted and generally justifiable
Gaussian Law of Error. So I begged him to allow

his solution to be given as an appendix to my paper

[91], where it will be found.

    It had appeared from observation, and it was

fully confirmed by this theory, that           such   a thing
               " Index of               "      that  is to say,
existed as an              Correlation      ;

a fraction, now commonly written r, that connects

with close approximation every value of deviation

on the part of the subject, with the average of all

the associated deviations of the Relative as already

described. Therefore the closeness of any specified

kinship admits of being found and expressed by a

single term. If a particular individual deviates so

much, the average of the deviations of all his brothers

will be a definite fraction of that amount ; similarly
as to sons, parents, first cousins, etc. Where there

is no relationship at all, r becomes equal to o ; when

it is so close that Subject and Relative are identical

in value, then r= 1. Therefore the value of r lies

in every case somewhere between the extreme limits
of o and 1. Much more could be added, but not

without using technical language, which would be

inappropriate here.

     The problem as described above is by no means

difficult to a fair mathematician. Mr. J. H. Dickson

set it to a class of his higher students, most of whom
3°4 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

same mechanical problem had been solved still more
comprehensively by a French mathematician. Pro

fessor Karl Pearson subsequently extended its ap

plication to variables not governed by the Gaussian

Law, and the exact determination of the Index of

Correlation by his refined method has now become
the object of most biometric work.

     I have received much help at various times
from Mathematical friends. On one occasion, being

impressed with the probability (owing to Weber's
and Fechner's Laws) that the true mean value of

many of the qualities with which I dealt would be
the Geometric and not the Arithmetic Mean, I asked

Mr. Donald Macalister, of whom I have already spoken,
to work out the results. He, as a schoolboy, was the
first to gain the prize medal of the Royal Geographical
Society, then became the Senior Wrangler of his year
at Cambridge, subsequently Chairman of the Medical
Council, and is now Provost of Glasgow University.
His memoir is supplementary to mine on the

" Geometric Mean," Proceedings of the Royal Society,

1879 [53}

     My first serious interest in the Gaussian Law of
Error was due to the inspiration of William Spottis-

woode, who had used it long ago in a Geographical
memoir for discussing the probability of the elevations
of certain mountain chains being due to a common

cause. He explained to me the far-reaching applica
tion of that extraordinarily beautiful law, which I
fully apprehended. I had also the pleasure of making

the acquaintance of Quetelet, who was the first to
apply it to human measurements, in its elementary
binomial form, which I used in my Hereditary Genius.
                       HEREDITY                       3°S

     The mathematician who most frequently helped
me later on was the Rev. H. W. Watson, who

moreover worked out for me the curious question of
     " Probability of                                 "
the                    the  Extinction  of  Families     [40].

It appeared in 1875 in the Proceedings of the Royal
Society as a joint paper, at his desire ; but all the hard

work was his : I only gave the first idea and the

data. He helped me greatly in my first struggles

with certain applications of the Gaussian Law, which,

for some reasons that I could never clearly perceive,

seemed for a long time to be comprehended with

difficulty by mathematicians, including himself. They

were unnecessarily alarmed lest the well-known rules

of Inverse Probability should be unconsciously violated,

which they never were. I could give a striking case

of this, but abstain because it would seem deprecia

tory of a man whose mathematical powers and ability

were far in excess of my own. Still, he was quite
wrong. The primary objects of the Gaussian Law
of Error were exactly opposed, in one sense, to those

to which I applied them. They were to get rid of,
or to provide a just allowance for errors. But these

errors or deviations were the very things I wanted to
preserve and to know about. This was the reason

that one eminent living mathematician gave me.
     The patience of some of my mathematical friends

was tried in endeavouring to explain what I myself

saw very clearly as a geometrical problem, but could

not express in the analytical forms to which they were

accustomed, and which they persisted in misapplying.

It was a gain to me when I had at last won over Mr.

Watson, who put my views into a more suitable

shape. H. W. Watson was Second Wrangler of his

     20
3o6 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

year, and had the reputation among his college
fellows of extraordinary sublety and insight as a

mathematician. He was perhaps a little too nice and

critical about his own work, losing time in over-

polishing, so that the amount of what he produced

was lessened. He wrote on the Kinetic Theory of

Gases.

     I may mention two anecdotes about him. He

had been a good Alpine climber and met with various

incidents. One was that he and a friend, F. Vaughan
Hawkins, set off at a good pace to vanquish some

new but not difficult peak, and passed on their way a
somewhat plodding party of German philosophers

bound on the same errand. One of Watson's shoes

had shown previous signs of damage, but he thought
he could manage to get on for a day or two longer if

he now and then covered it with an indiarubber

galosh that he then took with him for such emer

gencies. It was a cumbrous addition, but succeeded

fairly, and he and his friend reached the top long

before the Germans, whom they thought no more

about. However, shortly after, a Swiss -German

newspaper gave a somewhat grandiose account of the
ascent of the mountain in question by Professors This
and That, in which it was remarked that the Pro

fessors would have been the very first to reach its

summit had not      two jealous Englishmen   provided
themselves with    " Gummi Schuhe " and so  were able

to outstrip them.

The other anecdote refers to the circumstances

under which Watson became Rector of a valuable

living, that of Berkswell, near Coventry. I repeat the
                         HEREDITY                     307

but doubtless with mistakes in a few details. He was
a Master at Harrow when some scrape had occurred,

and a boy in whom he was interested was judged

guilty and sent up to be flogged. The boy protested

his innocence so vehemently, that although appear
ances were sadly against him, Watson was ready to
believe what he said, and took unusual pains to

investigate the matter. The result was that the boy

was completely exculpated. A few years after, the

boy's father bought the property at Berkswell in

which the gift of the living was included. It

happened to be then vacant, and the new proprietor
found he must either nominate some one at once, or

the nomination would lapse, and fall (I think) to the
Bishop. He knew of no suitable clergyman. Then
the boy called out, "Give it to Mr. Watson," which

the father, knowing the story, did.

I thought that some data which were needed

might be obtained by breeding insects, without too

great expenditure of time and money, and it ended

in my selecting for the purpose, under the advice of

Mr. Merrifield, a        particular kind of   Moth,    the
" Selenia illustraria,"   which breeds twice  a year  and

is hardy. Mr. Merrifield most kindly undertook to

conduct the experiments for me, and his methods

were beautifully simple and suitable. They are

described in the Transactions of the Entomological
Society, 1887 [99]. Another friend also undertook

a set. I will not describe any of the results at length,

because they failed owing to rapidly diminishing

fertility in successive generations, and through the

large disturbing effects of small differences in environ
308 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

ment. All the moths in the first generation were

photographed neatly on octavo pages by a friend,
Miss Reynolds, and a very great deal of trouble was
taken about them, but all in vain. The only consola
tion that I have is that the experiences gained by Mr.
Merrifield enabled him to pursue other experiments

on moths with great success, which have led to his

increased reputation as an entomologist.
     Later still it seemed most desirable to obtain data

that would throw light on the Average contribution of
each Ancestor to the total heritage of the offspring

in a mixed population. This is a purely statistical

question, the same answer to which would be given on
more than one theoretical hypothesis of heredity,

whether it be Pangenetic, Mendelian, or other.
     I must stop for a moment to pay a tribute to the

memory of Mendel, with whom I sentimentally feel

myself connected, owing to our having been born in

the same year 1822. His careful and long-continued

experiments show how much can be performed by

those who, like him and Charles Darwin, never or

hardly ever leave their homes, and again how much

might be done in a fixed laboratory after a uniform

tradition of work had been established.  Mendel

clearly showed that there were such things as alter

native atomic characters of equal potency in descent.

How far characters generally may be due to simple,
or to molecular characters more or less correlated

together, has yet to be discovered.
     I had thought of experimenting with mice, as

cheap to rear and very prolific, and had taken some

steps to that end, when I became aware of the large
HEREDITY  309

Everard Millais. He offered me every facility. The

Basset Hound records referring to his own and other
breeds had been carefully kept, and the Stud Book
he lent me contained accounts of nearly 1000 animals,

of which I was able to utilise 817. All were

descended from parents of known colours ; in 567
of them the colours of all four grandparents were
also known. Wherever the printed Stud Book was
deficient, Sir Everard Millais supplied the want in

MS from the original records. My inquiry was into

the heredity of two alternative colours, one containing

no black, the other containing it ; their technical

names were lemon-white and tri-colour (black, lemon,
white) respectively. I was assured that no difficulty
was felt in determining the category to which each
individual belonged. These data were fully dis

cussed in a memoir, published ( 1 897) in the Proceedings

of the Royal Society [139], on what is now termed

the "Ancestral Law," namely, that the average contri

bution of each parent is \, of each grandparent tV,

and so on. Or, in other words, that of the two

parents taken together is \, of the four grandparents
together \, and so on. My data were not as

numerous as is desirable, still the results were closely

congruous, and seem to be a near approximation to

the truth. The conclusions have been much dis

cussed and criticised, and they have been modified

by Professor Karl Pearson ; but they have not been
seriously shaken, so far as I know.
                   CHAPTER XXI

                        RACE IMPROVEMENT

Eugenics -- Passages from my early writings -- Original sin-- Breeding
      dogs for intelligence -- Great extension of my work by Professor Karl
      Pearson -- Eugenics laboratory -- Duty towards race improvement

     HE subject of Race Improvement, or Eugenics,

  A with which I have much occupied myself
during the last few years, is a pursuit of no recent
interest. I published my views as long ago as 1865,
in two articles written in Macmillan's Magazine [20],
while preparing materials for my book, Hereditary
Genius. But I did not then realise, as now, the
powerful influence of Small Causes upon statistical
results. I was too much disposed to think of marriage
under some regulation, and not enough of the effects
of self-interest and of social and religious sentiment.
Popular feeling was not then ripe to accept even the
elementary truths of hereditary talent and character,
upon which the possibility of Race Improvement
depends. Still less was it prepared to consider dis
passionately any proposals for practical action. So
I laid the subject wholly to one side for many years.
Now I see my way better, and an appreciative audience
is at last to be had, though it be small.

     As in most other cases of novel views, the wrong-
headedness of objectors to Eugenics has been curious.
RACE IMPROVEMENT  3ii

The most common misrepresentations now are that
its methods must be altogether those of compulsory

unions, as in breeding animals. It is not so. I think

that stern compulsion ought to be exerted to prevent
the free propagation of the stock of those who are
seriously afflicted by lunacy, feeble - mindedness,
habitual criminality, and pauperism, but that is

quite different from compulsory marriage. How to

restrain ill-omened marriages is a question by itself,
whether it should be effected by seclusion, or in other

ways yet to be devised that are consistent with a

humane and well-informed public opinion. I cannot

doubt that our democracy will ultimately refuse consent
to that liberty of propagating children which is now

allowed to the undesirable classes, but the populace has

yet to be taught the true state of these things. A

democracy cannot endure unless it be composed of able

citizens ; therefore it must in self-defence withstand

the free introduction of degenerate stock.
     What I desire is that the importance of eugenic

marriages should be reckoned at its just value, neither
too high nor too low, and that Eugenics should form
one of the many considerations by which marriages

are promoted or hindered, as they are by social
position, adequate fortune, and similarity of creed.
I can believe hereafter that it will be felt as derogatory
to a person of exceptionally good stock to marry into
an inferior one as it is for a person of high Austrian

rank to marry one who has not sixteen heraldic
quarterings. I also hope that social recognition of an
appropriate kind will be given to healthy, capable, and

large families, and that social influence will be exerted
towards the encouragement of eugenic marriages.
312 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Confusion is often made between statistical and

individual results.  It sometimes seems to be held

seriously that if the effect of a particular union cannot

be accurately foretold, the application of the rules of

Eugenics is vain. This is not the case. Statistics

give us assurance concerning the fate of such or such

a percentage of a large number of people which, when

translated into other terms, is the probability of each

of them being affected by it From the statesman's

point of view, where lives are pawns in the game and

personal favour is excluded, this information is suffi

cient. It tells how large a number of undesirables

or of desirables can be introduced or not into a

population by such and such measures. Whether

their names be A, B, or C, or else X, Y, or Z,
is of no importance to the " Statistician," --a term

that is more or less equivalent to that of " States

man."

In accordance with one principal purpose of these

Ipages, which is to show the fundamental coherence

of most of my many inquiries, will quote several

passages from the above-mentioned articles written

in 1865. They expressed then, as clearly as I can
do now, the leading principles of Eugenics. They

will each be followed by a remark as to how I should

wish to modify them.

     " The power of man over animal life, in producing

whatever varieties of form he pleases, is enormously
great. It would seem as though the physical structure

of future generations was almost as plastic as clay,

under the control of the breeder's will. It is my
desire to show, more pointedly than, so far as I
RACE IMPROVEMENT  313

am aware, has been attempted before, that mental

qualities are equally under control."
     Then follows a discussion of inherited abilities, of

the same character as that which was afterwards

developed more fully in Hereditary Genius. If I

were to re-write the above passage, it would be
modified by limiting the power of the breeder to

perpetuating and intensifying qualities which have

already appeared in the race. The possibility would
at the same time be recognised of the unforeseen
appearance of "sports" or "mutations" of a kind

not hitherto observed, but which for all that may

become hereditary. Such in past times may have
been the electric organs of certain eels and rays, the
illuminating capacity of glow-worms, fire-flies, and
inhabitants of deep waters, the venom in certain

snakes, and the power of speech in man.

     After some pages of remarks, the latter of them
on the physical attributes of very able men, the

article continues :--

     " Most notabilities have been great eaters and
excellent digesters, on literally the same principle that
the furnace which can raise more steam than is usual
for one of its size must burn more freely and well
than is common. Most great men are vigorous
animals with exuberant powers and an extreme
devotion to a cause. There is no reason to suppose
that in breeding for the highest order of intellect
we should produce a sterile or a feeble race."

     I should now alter the last sentence to " There
is no reason to doubt that a very high order of
314 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

intellect might be bred with little, if any, sacrifice
of fertility or vigour."

     " Many forms of civilisation have been peculiarly
unfavourable to the hereditary transmission of rare
talent. None of them were more prejudicial to it
than that of the Middle Ages, when almost every
youth of genius was attracted into the Church and
enrolled in the rank of a celibate clergy."

     This argument was largely developed in Here

ditary Genius.

     "Another great hindrance to it is a costly tone of
society, like that of our own, where it becomes a folly

for a rising man to encumber himself with domestic
expenses, which custom exacts, and which are larger
than his resources are able to meet. Here also genius
is celibate, at least during the best period of manhood.

    " A spirit of clique is not bad. I understand that

in Germany it is very much the custom for professors
to marry the [sisters] or daughters of other professors,
and I have some reason to believe, but am anxious
for fuller information before I can feel sure of that

the enormous intellectual digestion of German literary
men, which far exceeds that of the corresponding class
of our own countrymen, may, in some considerable

degree, be due to this practice."
I
                                    it it

                                              is
                                                                                        it,

                                                                                        a
have not even yet obtained the information

desired in the last paragraph, the correspondents who

partly promised to give not having done so. As

many members of our House of Lords marry the

daughters of millionaires,  quite conceivable that

our Senate may in time become characterised by
RACE IMPROVEMENT                                          315

more than common share of shrewd business capacity,

possibly also by a lower standard of commercial

probity than at present.
..." So far as beauty is concerned
                                            it is not so

very long ago in England that it was thought quite

natural that the strongest lance at the tournament

should win the fairest or the noblest lady. The lady

was the prize to be tilted for. She rarely objected to

the arrangement, because her vanity was gratified by

the dclat of the proceeding. Now history is justly
charged with a tendency to repeat itself. We may

therefore reasonably look forward to the possibility,

I do not say the probability, of some such practice of

competition. What an extraordinary effect might be
produced on our race if its object was to unite in

marriage those who possessed the finest and most
                                                       "
suitable natures,  mental,  moral,     and  physical
                                                      !

The last paragraph must of course be interpreted

in the semi-jocular sense in which it was written.

I may here speak of some attempts by myself,

made hitherto in too desultory a way, to obtain

materials for a "Beauty-Map" of the British Isles.

Whenever I have occasion to classify the persons I

meet into three classes, "good, medium, bad," I use

a needle mounted as a pricker, wherewith to prick

holes, unseen, in a piece of paper, torn rudely into a

cross with a long  l"egm. edIiuumse,"  its upper end for "good,"
the cross-arm for                       the lower end for " bad."

The prick-holes keep distinct, and are easily read off
at leisure. The object, place, and date are written

on the paper. I used this plan for my beauty data,

classifying the girls I passed in streets or elsewhere
316 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

as attractive, indifferent, or repellent. Of course this

was a purely individual estimate, but it was consistent,
judging from the conformity of different attempts in

the same population. I found London to rank highest

for beauty ; Aberdeen lowest.

     In another article, after some further discussion, I
say :--

     " I hence conclude that the improvement of the

breed of mankind is no insuperable difficulty. If

everybody were to agree on the improvement of

the race of man being a matter of the very utmost

importance, and if the theory of the hereditary trans

mission of qualities in men was as thoroughly under
stood as it is in the case of our domestic animals, I

see no absurdity in supposing that, in some way or

other, the improvement would be carried into effect.
     " Most persons seem to have an idea that a new

element, specially fashioned in heaven, and not trans

mitted by simple descent, is introduced into the body

of every new-born infant. It is impossible this should

be true, unless there exists some property or quality

in man that is not transmissible by descent. But the

terms talent and character are exhaustive ; they in

clude the whole of man's spiritual nature, so far as we

are able to understand  No other class of qualities
is

      It

             is
                                 is

                                              it.

                                                                                                  :

                                                                 is
                                                                            a
known to exist, that we might suppose to have

been interpolated from on high."

The article concludes as follows --

" a common theme of moralists of many

creeds, that man  born with an imperfect nature.

He has lofty aspirations, but there                                                                  weakness in

his disposition that incapacitates him from carrying
       RACE IMPROVEMENT                                     317

his nobler purposes into effect. He sees that some

particular course of action is his duty, and should be

his delight ; but his inclinations are fickle and base, and

do not conform to his better judgment. The whole

moral nature of man is tainted with sin, which prevents

him from doing the things he knows to be right.
     " I venture to offer an explanation of this apparent

anomaly which seems perfectly satisfactory from a

scientific point of view. It is neither more nor less

than that the development of our nature, under

Darwin's law of Natural Selection, has not yet over

taken the development of our religious civilisation.

Man was barbarous but yesterday, and therefore it

is not to be expected that the natural aptitudes of

his race should already have become moulded into

accordance with his very recent advance. We men of

the present centuries are like animals suddenly trans

planted among new conditions of climate and of food ;

our instincts fail us under the altered circumstances.

     " My theory is confirmed by the fact that the

members of old civilisations are far less sensible

than those newly converted from barbarism, of their

nature being inadequate to their moral needs. The

conscience of a negro is aghast at his own wild

impulsive nature, and is easily stirred by a preacher ;

but it is scarcely possible to ruffle the self-complacency

of  a  "sTtehaedys-egnosiengof  Chinaman.
                                Original Sin
                                              would  show,  according

to my theory, not that man was fallen from a high

estate, but that he was rapidly rising from a low one.

It would therefore confirm the conclusion that has

been arrived at by every independent line of ethno

logical research, that our forefathers were utter
318 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

savages . . . and that after myriads of years of

barbarism our race has but very recently grown to
be civilised and religious."

     The above paragraphs appeared also in Heredi
tary Genius.

      These views published by me forty-five years ago
are still up to date, owing to the slow advance of the

popular mind in its appreciation of the force of
heredity. My fault in other parts of these articles

was a tendency to overrate the speed with which a
great improvement of the race of mankind might,

theoretically, be effected. I had not then made out
the law of Regression. With this qualification the

above extracts express my present views.

     Before concluding with these magazine articles, I

will make yet another extract in reference to a subject
which a friend urged upon me quite recently as a
worthy subject of experiment, namely, the breeding of
animals for intelligence. The following extract shows
that I considered it long ago. I have frequently since
thought of making an attempt to carry it out, but it
would have occupied more time and money than I
could have spared. As it is just possible that the
idea may now catch the fancy of some one, and induce

him to make a trial, I reprint the passage here :--

      " So far as I am aware, no animals have ever
 been bred for general intelligence. Special aptitudes
are thoroughly controlled by the breeder. He breeds
 Dogs that point, that retrieve, that fondle or that bite ;
 but no one has ever yet attempted to breed for high
 general intellect, irrespective of all other qualifications.

 It would be a most interesting subject for an attempt.
RACE IMPROVEMENT                              319

We hear constantly of prodigies of dogs, whose very
intelligence makes them of little value as slaves.
When they are wanted, they are apt to be absent on
their own errands. They are too critical of their
master's conduct. For instance, an intelligent dog
shows marked contempt for an unsuccessful sports
man. He will follow nobody along a road that leads
to a well-known tedious errand. He does not readily
forgive a man who wounds his self-esteem. He is
often a dexterous thief and a sad hypocrite. For

these reasons an over-intelligent dog is not an object
of particular desire, and therefore I suppose no one

has ever thought of encouraging a breed of wise dogs.
But it would be a most interesting occupation for a

country philosopher to pick up the cleverest dogs he
could hear of, and mate them together, generation after

generation --breeding purely for intellectual power, and

disregarding shape, size, and every other quality."

     The phrase "regardless of every other quality"

is too strong, some regard should be paid to the
physique and to the character of the dogs.

      Perhaps twenty females, ten males, and a fluctu
ating population of puppies would be enough for an

experiment. The cost of this would not be very

great, and would be sensibly diminished in time by
money derived from the sale of pups.

The idea of the improvement of the human race

was again mooted in 1884, and the term Eugenics

was then first applied to   it in my Human     Faculty.
Afterwards it was strongly  emphasised in my  " Huxley

Lecture" before the Anthropological Institute in 1901

[160], on the "Possible Improvement of the Human
320 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Breed under the existing conditions of Law and

Sentiment."

Great steps towards estimating the values of the

influences concerned in effecting it had been made

in the meantime by Professor Karl Pearson. He

took up my work on Correlation [104], vastly ex

tending its theory, and adding largely to the data.
I had gone no further than to obtain simple results
based on the Gaussian law of distribution ; he worked

out those results with great mathematical skill and
elaboration. He also generalised them so as to deal
with other laws of distribution than the Gaussian.

     Moreover, Professor Karl Pearson established a

Biometric Laboratory in University College, where

accurate computations are made, and whence a

quarterly publication, Biometrika, is issued. It was
established by him and Professor Weldon, whose un

timely death has been a deep sorrow to many friends

and  a serious loss to the science of heredity.   I also
was   nominally connected with Biometrika as     " Con

sulting Editor."
     The ground had thus become more or less pre

pared for further advance ; so, after talking over the
matter with the authorities of the University of

London, and obtaining their ready concurrence, I

supplied sufficient funds to allow of a small estab
lishment for the furtherance of Eugenics. The
University provided rooms, and gave the sanction of

their name and various facilities, and I provided the
salaries for a Research Fellow and for a Research

Scholar. The Eugenics Laboratory of the University

of London is now situated in University College, in
connection with Professor Karl Pearson's biometric
                    RACE IMPROVEMENT                             321

laboratory, and I am glad to say he has consented

                    for the present at least, under his very
to take  it,

                                     ;

                                I
able superintendence as am too old and infirm now

to be able to look properly after it. Valuable

memoirs are being published by the Laboratory from

time to time, and the young institution promises to

be a permanent success.

The authorities of the newly established Socio

logical Society were disposed to take up the subject

of Race Improvement, so gave lectures at two of
                         is
their meetings in 1904 and 1905, which are publishedI
in Vols and II. of the
                                                             isSociological Papers [168].
The subjects were on, "                 Eugenics, its Scope and
Aims," " Restrictions in                 Marriage," " Studies in
itNational Eugenics," and " Eugenics as a Factor in
             is I.
Religion." Eugenics                     officially defined in the
Minutes of the University of London as " the study

of agencies under social control that may improve
or impair the racial qualities of future generations,

either physically or mentally."

Skilful and cautious statistical treatment needed

in most of the many inquiries upon whose results the

methods of Eugenics will rest. A full account of the

inquiries necessarily technical and dry, but the re
sults are not, and a " Eugenics Education Society " has

been recently established to popularise those results.I

At the request of its Committee have lately joined
   as Hon. President, and hope to aid its work so far

as the small powers that an advanced age still leaves

intact may permit

    A true philanthropist concerns himself not only

with society as a whole, but also with as many of the

              21
322 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

individuals who compose it as the range of his affec

tions can include. If a man devotes himself solely

to the good of a nation as a whole, his tastes must be

impersonal and his          conclusions so far heartless, de
                            of " dismal " with which Carlyle
             title
serving the  ill
                         If,
labelled statistics.          on the other hand, he attends

only to certain individuals in whom he happens to

take an interest, he becomes guided by favouritism

and oblivious of the rights of others and of the
    It is

         is
                                                                                   ;
futurity of the race. Charity refers to the individual
                                                                                                                 ;
Statesmanship to the nation Eugenics cares for both.
                                                                                                                     it ;
              known that a considerable part of the huge
stream of British charity furthers by indirect and

unsuspected ways the production of the Unfit

is  most desirable that money and other attention

bestowed on harmful forms of charity should be

diverted to the production and well-being of the Fit.

For clearness of explanation we may divide newly

married couples into three classes, with respect to the

probable civic worth of their offspring. There would

be a small class of "desirables,"                                                     large class of
                                                                                      if

                                                                                           a

                                                                                           It

                                                                                                      it
                                                                                                             is
" passables," of whom nothing more will be said here,

and a small class of "undesirables."                                                  would clearly

be advantageous to the country social and moral

support as well as timely material help were extended

to the desirables, and not monopolised as                                                                        now

apt to be by the undesirables.

    I  take Eugenics very seriously, feeling that its

principles ought to become one of the dominant

motives in a civilised nation, much as they were
                               I
one of its religious tenets.
                                               if
                                                                                      have often expressed

myself in this sense, and will conclude this book by

briefly reiterating my views.
RACE IMPROVEMENT  323

      Individuals appear to me as partial detachments
from the infinite ocean of Being, and this world as
a stage on which Evolution takes place, principally
hitherto by means of Natural Selection, which
achieves the good of the whole with scant regard to

that of the individual.

     Man is gifted with pity and other kindly feelings ;
he has also the power of preventing many kinds of
suffering. I conceive it to fall well within his pro
vince to replace Natural Selection by other processes

that are more merciful and not less effective.

     This is precisely the aim of Eugenics. Its first
object is to check the birth-rate of the Unfit, instead
of allowing them to come into being, though doomed
in large numbers to perish prematurely. The second
object is the improvement of the race by furthering
the productivity of the Fit by early marriages and

healthful rearing of their children. Natural Selection

rests upon excessive production and wholesale destruc

tion ; Eugenics on bringing no more individuals into

the world than can be properly cared for, and those only
of the best stock.
.........(Geogr. Soc.Journ.)
APPENDIXI. Teletype, a Printing Electric Telegraph (J. Weale; -- Macmillan).

2. Recent Expedition into the Interior of South-Western Africa
.Lock & Co., Minerva Press, 1889)                                             1850

.......Printed).                                                              1852
3. Tropical South Africa (Murray, 1853) (second edition, Ward,
                                                                              1853
4. Modern Geography -- Cambridge Essays (J. W. Parker) .                 .    1855
                                                                              1855
5. Art of Travel, 1855, and subsequent editions (Murray) .               .    1855

6. Arts of Campaigning, Inaugural Lecture at Aldershot (Murray) .             1856
                                                                              1858
7. Course of Public Lectures in the Camp at Aldershot (Privately              1858
....1858; Geogr. Sec. Proc., i860).
......Galton (Macmillan)                                                      1858
 8. Catalogue of Models illustrative of Camp Life (Privately Printed) .
 9. Exploration of Arid Countries (Geogr. Soc. Proc.). . .
10. Hand Heliostat, for the purpose of Flashing Sun Signals, from on
........Journ.)
board Ship or on Land, in Sunny Climates (Brit. Assoc. Rep.,

11. Vacation Tourists, Edited and containing two Memoirs by F.

                                                                              1860-63

12. On a New Principle for the Protection of Riflemen (based on the
....15. Meteorological Charts (Phil. Mag.)

16. A Development of the Theory of Cyclones (Anticyclones) (Roy.
trajectory of the spherical bullets then in use) (United Service
............Soc. Proc.)
                                                                              1861
17. Meteorographica (Macmillan)
18. Stereoscopic Maps, taken from models of mountainous countries
13. Zanzibar, a Lecture at the S. P. G. (Mission Field)      ..               1861
                                                                              1861
14. Circular asking for Synchronance Observations during one month
 ........(Geogr. Soc.Journ.)

19. Spectacles for Divers, and the Vision of Amphibious Animals
three times daily, with map (Privately Printed)              ..

                                                                              1861

                                                                              1862
                                                                              1863

                                                                              1865

          (Brit. Assoc. Rep.)                                              1865
20. Hereditary Talent and Character (Macmillan' s Magazine)      . 1865

21. Conversion of Wind-Charts into Passage-Charts (Brit. Assoc.
Rep. ; Phil. Mag.)                                           ·.
                                                                              1866

22. Hereditary Genius, 1869 ; second edition, 1892 (Macmillan)   .            1869

23. Drill Pantagraph, reducing horizontally and vertically to different
scales. Also a Mechanical Computer of Vapour Tension. Report

of Meteorological Council. See also 119          .       .      . 1869

                    335
326 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

26. Gregariousness in Cattle and in Men (Macmillan 's Mag. ; vol. 23)

......27. On Blood Relationship : a Discussion on the Meaning of Kinship
34. Barometric Predictions of Weather (Brit. Assoc. Rep.) .             .       1870

25. Experiments in Pangenesis, by breeding from rabbits of a pure               187 1
                                                                                1872
variety, into whose circulation blood taken from other varieties

had previously been largely transfused (Roy. Soc. Proc.)                .

(Roy. Soc. Proc.)                                                               1872

28. Address to the Geographical Section of the British Association at

      .1872Brighton (Brit. Assoc. Rep.) . . . .

29. Statistical Inquiries into the Efficacy of Prayer (Fortnightly
.....31. Africa for the Chinese (Times)
...Review) .
........Proc.)
                   .                ... .                                       1872

30. Relative Supplies from Town and Country Families to Future                  1873
                                                                                1873
Generations (Journ. Statist. Soc.)

32. Employment of Meteorological Statistics in determining the best
............(Anthropol. Inst. Journ.)
course for a ship whose sailing qualities are known (Roy. Soc.

33. Hereditary Improvement (Prater's Magazine, January) .                  .    1873
                                                                                1873
34. Proposed Statistical Scale (Nature, 5th March) . . .                        1870

35. Proposal to apply for Anthropological Statistics from Schools               1874

36. English Men of Science, their Nature and their Nurture (Royal

          Institution)                                                          1874
37. English Men of Science, their Nature and Nurture (Macmillan)                1874

38. Excess of Females in the West Indies (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.) .            1S74
....Frequency of Error (Phil. Mag.)                                             1875
39. Notes on the Marlborough School Statistics (Anthropol. Inst.                1875
                                                                                1875
Journ.) .             .
....42. Height and Weight of Boys, aged 14, in Town and Country Public
40. On the Probability of the Extinction of Families [in association
with Rev. H. W. Watson] (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.) .
                                                                           .

41. Statistics by Intercomparison, with Remarks on the Law of

        Schools (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.)                                       1876
43. The History of Twins, as a Criterion of the Relative Powers of

Nature and Nurture (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.) . . . 1876
44. Short Notes on Heredity, etc., in Twins (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.)
45. A Theory of Heredity (Anthropol. Inst. Journ. ; Revue Scientif.)            1876
46. Whistles for Determining the Upper Limits of Audible Sound in               1876

        Different Persons (South Kensington Conferences ; volume on             1S66

          "Chemistry, Biology," etc. p. 61). See Hydrogen Whistles, 74          1877
47. Apparatus for the Rapid Verification of Thermometers ; now in

          use at the Kew Observatory (Roy. Soc. Proc, 1878 ; Phil. Mag.

             1877)

....48. Typical Laws of Heredity (1877) (Royal Inst. Proc., 1879 ;
          Nature, 1877 ; Revue Scientif., 1877)                                 1877
49. Address to the Department of Anthropology of the Brit. Assoc.,
Plymouth [On the Study of Types (or Groups) of Men] (Brit.
Assoc. Rep. ; Nature ; Revue Scientif, 1877) 
                                                             ·                  l877
                     APPENDIX                                              327

...........Proc.)
51. Composite Portraits, made by combining those of many different

        persons into a single resultant figure (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.,
.54. Generic Images (Nineteenth Century)

55. Psychometric Experiments, Free Will (Brain, vol. ii.)
           1879; Nature, 1878); Revue Scientif., 1879) . . . 1878
52. Letters of H. M. Stanley from Equatorial Africa to Daily Telegraph

     .1878(Edin. Review) . . . . . .
53. The Geometric Mean in Vital and Social Statistics [Roy. Soc.
......tions in a low Pool of Water, and in a Mercurial Horizon
                                                                           1879

                                                             .                    1879
                                                                        . 1879

56. Opportunities of Science Masters at Schools (Nature)     .          ·  1880

57. Determining the Heights and Distances of Clouds by their Reflec

 ............(Brit. Assoc. Rep.)(Brit. Assoc. Rep.)                         1880
                                                                            1880
62. Construction of Isochronic Passage-Charts (Brit. Assoc. Rep. ;          1880
58. Visualised Numerals (Preliminary Memoir) (Nature)     .             .
                                                                           1880
59. Statistics of Mental Imagery (Mind, No. XIX.) . . .
                                                                           1881
J.60. Galtonia Candicans (Flores des serres, etc., par Decaisne, 1880),
(Gardeners' Chronicle, 1881) . . . . .                                     1881
61. The Equipment of Exploring Expeditions now and fifty years ago,        1881

........Hospital Reports, vol. xxv. )                                      1881
           Geogr. Soc. Proc.)                                              1882
                                                                           1882
63. Visualised Numerals (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.) . . .
64. Inquiry into the Physiognomy of Phthisis by the Method of Com          1882
.66. Generic Images (Roy. Inst. Proc.) .                                   1882
.......Review).                                                            1882
posite Portraiture (in connection with Dr. Mahomed) (Guy's                 1882

65. Visions of Sane Persons (Roy. Inst. Proc. )  .                ..       1883
                                                                           1883
67. Photographic Portraits from Childhood to Age          (Fortnightly     1883
....Senses (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.)                                       1883
68. A Rapid-View Instrument for Momentary Attitudes (Nature)        .      1883
                                                                    .      1883
69. Anthropometric Laboratory (Fortnightly Review .       .                1883

70. Conventional Representation of the Horse in Motion (Nature) .
.....75. Human Faculty (Macmillan)
71. Apparatus for testing the Delicacy of the Muscular and other

72. The American Trotting- Horse (Nature)
.......78. Anthrop. Laboratory, Internat. Health Exhib. (Issued by
73. Outfit for an Anthropometric Laboratory (Privately Printed)     .

74. Hydrogen Whistles (Nature). See 46           ...

76. Medical Family Registers (proposed prizes) (Fortnightly Review) .
77. Arithmetic Notation of Kinship (Nature) . . . . .

Authority)
.....83. Record of Family Faculties (published in connection with an       1884
79. Life History Album, 1884 (second edition, 1903, Macmillan) .           1884
80. Table of Observations [of 400 persons] (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.) .     1884
81. Free Will, Observations and Inferences (Mind, No. xxxv.)               1884
                                                                    .      1884

82. Measurement of Character (Fortnightly Review) . . .

offer of prizes) (Macmillan)                                               1884
84. Anthropometric Laboratory at the International Health Exhi

 .bition (Anthropol. Inst. Joum.)
...85. Anthropometric Per-Centiles (Nature)

86. Address to the Anthropological Section of the British Associa
328 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

87. Regression towards Mediocrity in Hereditary Stature (Anthropol.             1885
                                                                                1885
.......Inst. Journ.)
tion, Aberdeen, 1885 [On Inheritance and Regression] (Brit.                     1885
Assoc. Rep. 1885; Anthropol. Inst. Journ., 1886)
.....90. Family Likeness in Stature, with an Appendix by J. D. Hamilton..       1885
                                                                                1885
88. Good and Bad Temper in English Families (Nineteenth Century)                1885

89. Composite Portraits (four sets reproduced) (Photo News) .          .

Dickson (Hoy. Soc. Proc.)                                                       1886
..............Journ.)
91. Family Likeness in Eye-Colour (Roy. Soc. Proc.) . . . 1886

92. Presidential Address, Anthropol. Inst. (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.) .          1886
.Journ.)

97. Thoughts without Words (Nature)
93. The Origin of Varieties (Curve of Attractiveness) (Nature)         .        1886
                                                                                1886
94. Anniversary Meeting of Royal Society -- Presentation of a Royal
Medal to F. Galton. Also his speech after the dinner ( Times) .

95. Recent Designs for Anthropometric Instruments (Anthropol. Inst.

Constants in the General Theory of Heredity ( Trans. Entomol.                   1887

.......Soc, London)
96. Notes on Permanent Colour Types in Mosaics (Anthropol. Inst.

                                                . . . .18818787
98. Presidential Address, Anthropol. Inst. (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.) .
101. Remarks on Replies by Teachers to Questions respecting Mental              1887

 ....Fatigue (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.)

102. Presidential Address, Anthropol. Inst. (Anthrop. Inst. Journ.) .
99. Pedigree Moth- Breeding as a means of Verifying certain Important

                                                                                1887

100. Notes on Australian Marriage Systems (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.)             1889

.....(Anthropol. Inst. Journ.)                                                  1889
105. Presidential Address, Anthropol. Inst. (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.) .         1888

.......106. Personal Identification and Description (Roy. Inst. Proc., t88g ;
103. Correlations and their Measurement, chiefly from Anthropometric

      .1889Data (Roy. Soc. Proc.) . . . . .

104. Instruments -- (1) Differences of Tint; (2) for Reading Time

                                                                                1889

                                                                                1889

Nature, 1888)                                                                   1889
...........109. Natural Inheritance (Macmillan, 1889)                           1889
107. Head Growth in Students at the University of Cambridge
(Anthropol. Inst. Journ., 18S9 ; Nature, 1888-89) .                             1889
                                                                             .  1889

108. Advisability of Assigning Marks for Bodily Efficiency in the

Examination of Candidates for the Public Services (Brit.

Assoc. Rep.)   .  .        .                    ...

110. Anthropometric Laboratory, Notes and Memoirs (Privately

            Printed)                                                            1890

111. A New Instrument for Measuring the Rate of Movement of the

Various Limbs (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.)         .               .            . 1891

112. Dice for Statistical Experiments (Nature)  . . . 1S90
                             APPENDIX                                                        329

113. Physical Tests in Competitive Examinations (Sec. of Arts Journ.) .                      1890

.......115. Tests and Certificates of the Kew Observatory (Printed for the
            Observatory)                                                                     1890
116. Retrospect of Work done at my Anthropometric Laboratory at                              1892

          South Kensington (Anthropol. Inst. Journ.) . . .
116. Patterns in Thumb and Finger Marks; their arrangement into

      naturally distinct classes, the permanence of the Papillary

      Ridges that make them, and the resemblance of their classes
117.
1 18.

120.

............120.
      to ordinary genera (Phil. Trans., abstract; Roy. Soc.

      Proc.)                                                                                 1891
      Methods of Indexing Finger Marks (Roy. Soc. Proc.)                                     1891
                                                                                 .     .
                                                                                             1892
      Galton's Pantagraph and Vapour Tension Computer (Illustrated)
                                                                                             1893
      (Deutsche Mathem.': Vereinigung). See also 23                              .     .     1893
                                                                                             1893
      The Just Perceptible Difference [Descriptive Portraiture] (Roy.                        1893
                                                                                             1893
      Inst. Proc.)
                                                                                             1894
      Identification (Nature)
      ......(Privately Printed)                                                              1894
122. Finger Prints (Macmillan)                                                               1894
123. Blurred Finger Prints (Macmillan)                                                       1894
                                                                                             1894
124. Enlarged Finger Prints (Photographic Work)                       .          .     .     1894
                                                                                             1895
125. Results derived from the Natality Table of Korosi, by employing                         1895
                                                                                             1895
      the Method of Contours, or Isogens (Roy. Soc. Proc.) .                           .
..130. Discontinuity in Evolution (Mind)
..131. Finger Print Directory (Macmillan)
126. Physical Index to 100 Persons, their Measures and Finger Prints

127. Relative Sensitivity of Men and Women (Nature)                              ..

128. Arithmetic by Smell (Psychological Review) . . .
129. A Plausible Paradox in Chances (Nature)
                                                                      . ..

      ......accessible stations whose inhabitants had no common language)
132. Terms of Imprisonment (Distribution of Sentences) (Nature)                        .
133. A New Step in Statistical Science (Nature)                                        .
                                                                      ..

134. Intelligible Signals between Neighbouring Stars (or other in

      (Fortnightly Review)                                                                   1896
135. A Curious Idiosyncrasy [Faintness at Sight of an Injured Finger

      .1896Nail] (Nature) . . . . . .
136. Three Generations of Lunatic Cats (Spectator)
                                      '                               .             .     .  1896
                                          .                                                  1896
137. Prints of Scars (Nature) .               .                       .          .        .
....141. Hereditary Colour in Horses (Nature)                                                1896
138. Private Circular of Committee for Measurement of Plants and
                                                                                             1897
      Animals (private, by Royal Society) Dec. 5, Nov. 30 .                                  1897
.....142. Rate of Racial Change that accompanies Different Degrees of                  .     1897

139. The Average Contribution of each several Ancestor to the Total

           Heritage of the Offspring (Roy. Soc. Proc. )                             ..
140. A New Law of Heredity (Nature) .

      Severity in Selection (Nature)                                                         1897

143. Relation between Individual and Racial Variability (Nature)                          . 1897

144.  Retrograde  Selection (Gardeners'      Cthhreon"icAlen)cestral  .       "  ..          1897
145.              of Heredity (illustrating                                                  1898
      A Diagram                                                          Law     (Nature)
330 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

145. An Examination into the Registered Speeds of American Trotting

Horses, with Remarks on their Value as Hereditary Data ( Roy.
.1898Soc. Proc. ; Nature)
.....Processions ( Times, May 25)...                .             .

146. Photographic Measurement of Horses and other Animals [Nature)         1898

147. Photographic Record of Pedigree Stock (Brit. Assoc. Rep.,

PP- 597"6°3, wrongly indexed as p. 567)             .          .         . 1898

148. Distribution of Prepotency (in horses) (Nature) . . . 1898

149. Temporary Flooring in Westminster Abbey for Ceremonial
153. Souvenirs d'Egypte (Bulletin de la Soc. Kh/diviale de
                                                                           189S
 ....Geographic ; /sap. Nat., Cairo)

154. A Geometric Determination of the Median Value of a System of
150. Pedigree Stock Records (Brit. Assoc. Rep., pp. 424-430).          . 1899

151. The Median Estimate (Brit. Assoc. Rep., pp. 638-640) .            . 1899
 ................Series)

156. Biometrika, Consulting Editor of
152. Strawberry Cure for Gout (Linnaeus ;--Nature)     .             . . 1899

..157. Biometry (Biometrika)                                               1900

.158. First and Second Prizes (Biometrika)

159. Probability of a Son of a very gifted
Normal Variants, from Two of its Centiles (Nature) .                   . 1900
 .......gifted (Nature)

160. The Possible Improvement of the Human Breed under the Exist
           ing Conditions of Law and Sentiment (Huxley Lecture of the

           Anthropological Institute, Nature ; Smithsonian Institution
155. Analytical Photography (Nature; Photogr. Soc. Journ., New

                                                                           1900
                                                                           1901

 ..........Report)                                                             1901

161. Finger Print Evidence (Nature)                                        1901-2

                      Father                           being no      less

                                                                           1901

....163. Are we degenerating ? (Daily Chronicle)
.....etc.), (Nature, Jan. 28)                                              1901
                                                                           1902

162. Pedigrees (based on Fraternal Units) (Nature)  .          .      .        1903
                                                                               1903
 ....Eugenics (Printedfor University)                                          1903

168. Restrictions in Marriage ; Studies in National Eugenics ; Eugenics        1904
164. On Remarks by Sir Edward Fry on Natural Selection (Nature) .          1904-5
165. Nomenclature and Tables of Kinship (father, mother, brother,
..........169.

.170.
166. Average Number of Kinsfolk in each Degree (Nature)        .       .

167. University of London. Notice of Research Fellowship in

 .............Congress)                                                    1904
.171. On Dr. Fauld's 'Guide to Finger-Print Identification' (Nature,
    as a Factor in Religion, with abstract of an earlier paper (vol.       1905
                                                                           1905
    ii. Sociological Papers)

Distribution of Successes and Natural Ability among Kinsfolk of

   Fellows of Royal Soc. (Nature)
Anthropometry at Schools (Royal Inst. of Public Health, London

                                                                           1905

Supplement)                                                                1905

172. Number of Strokes of the Brush in a Picture (Nature)  .         . 1905

173. Cutting a round Cake on Scientific Principles  .          .     . 1906

174. Noteworthy Families, jointly with E. Schuster (Murray)          . 1906
....176. Measurement of Resemblance (Nature)
.......177. Vox Populi (Nature)APPENDIX                                  331

      ...........Oxford (Clarendon Press Ox/.)                           1906
177. One Vote one Value (Nature)                                         1907
                                                                         1907
    .180. Grades and Deviates (calculations by W. F. Sheppard ; Vol. v.  1907
178.  Further sum of £iocx} to University of London (Times)  ..
179.                                                                     1907
      Probability the Foundation of Eugenics, "H. Spencer"   Lecture

      Biometrika)                                                        1907

181. Suggestions for improving the Literary Style of Scientific Memoirs
      .1908(R. Soc. Literature)
                   .              .  .  .                    .

182. Eugenics, Address on ( Westminster Gazette, June 26)    .  . 1908

    PRINCIPAL AWARDS AND DEGREES

Gold Medal, Royal Geographical Society .                                 1853
                                                                         1854
Silver Medal, French Geographical Society.                               1855
                                                                         1856
Elected to Athenaeum Club under Rule II.                                 1886
                                                                         1891
    Fellow of the Royal Society . . .                                    1894
                                                                         1895
Gold Medal of the Royal Society            ..                            1901

Officer de l'lnstruction Publique, France .                              1902
                                                                         1902
    D.C.L. Oxford
    Sc.D. (Honorary), Cambridge . . .                                    1 908
    Huxley Medal Anthropological Institute .

    ......Elected Hon. Fellow Trinity College, Cam
           bridge
    Darwin Medal, Royal Society . . .

    Linna^an Society Medal at Darwin- Wallace

      Celebration
                                                  INDEX

Abbas Pasha, 91                                        Barclay of Urie (Apologist),
Aberdeen, 316                                          Capt. B. Allardice, 5
Aberfeldy, 71                                          Hedworth, 85
Abney, Sir W., 227                                Barmen Mission Station, 129
Abydos (Egypt), 98                                Barth, Dr., 172
Adelsberg, caves of, 56                                   Hounds,
                                                  Basset  H. W.,    308
AAdfetner(inrLeetbuarnnon),Ho1m04e-- Marriage,    Bates,           210

    152       Hall, 217                           Bayouda Desert, 95
Agricultural                                      Bears, 123, 190

                                                  Beauty-maps, 315
                                                  Bennett, Sir J. Risdon, 274
Ague, 102, 106, 159                               Bentham, George, 174, 190
Airy, Sir George, 187                             Bentinck, Mr., 152
Alcock, Sir Rutherford, 193
Aldershot, lectures at, 164                       Berkeswell Rectory, 306
Alexander, Sir James, 128, 201                    Bertillon, Alphonse, measurements, 251 ;
Ali (dragoman), 85, 89, 102, 103                       letter on finger-prints, 255 ; system
Allman, Prof., 294                                     inappropriate to India, 256
Alpine Club, 190                                  Beyrout, quarantine, 102,
                                                  Bidder, G., Q.C., 270                                 105

Amiral, 135, 147                                  Biggs, Miss E., 195
Ancestral law,
Anderson, Ch.   3J.0,8         123,    148,  149       Birmingham Hospital, 20, 43
                                                               School, 20
Andorre, Republic of, 190
Anthropological Notes and Queries, 163            Bishari Desert, 87
Anthropometric Laboratories, Inter                Black Sea,
                                                  Blakesley,   5  1    58
   national Exhibition, 244 ; South
                                                              J.  W.,

Kensington, 249                                   Blind, low muscular sense of, 249
                                                  Blood, smell of,
Anticyclones, 231                                 Blue Nile, 94        191
Arithmetic by Smell, 283
                                                  Bob (Arab boy), 86, 88, 96
Arnaud Bey, 87, 97                                Boers, 126, 136
AArrntolodf,  TDrr.a, v6e3,l,
                               69      162        Bosphorus, 52
                                 161,
Ashburton, Lord, 169                              Boulogne, school at, 16
                                                  Boulton, Matthew P. W., 19, 58
Athenamm Club, 12, 150                                 Montagu, 85
Atkinson, T. W., 176                                           & Watt's works,
Attwood, Rev. G., 18                                   Bowman, Sir W., 24,            4,                19
Austen, Sir Ch. Roberts, 216                                                          41
Austen and Austin, 291                            BBrraaddslehya,w,DeManrs, .,181306
Automatic acts interfered with, 276
Avebury, Lord, 177                                Brakes to carriages, 61
                                                  Brandram, Miss [see MacLennan), 192
Bachelor, the " Travelling," 68                   BBBrrriesiattetihsdih,ngC,A,sesx7op7ceiraimtioennt,s
                                                                                                        on,  276
Bag for sleeping, 189                                                                                   65,  208,
Balloon, 115; the Nassau,
Bam, Rev. -- , 132                           183  Broca, 44                                                        213

                                                  333
334 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Brock, Mr., 249                                         Crawfurd, John, 172
Brodrick, Hon. G., 180, 211                             Crimean War, 163
Brookfield, W. H., 170                                  Crocodiles, 95
Brougham, Lord, 153                                     Culrain moor, 1 1 1
BufTon, 292
Bump bag, 116                                           Cummine, Gordon, 122
Bunbury, Mrs. (Adele Gallon), 13                        Cunene R., 130
BBuurrtnosn,(aScciridRen.,ts)1,613,0 171, 199, 202-3    Curative index, 33
                                                        Cyclones, 230

Bushmen, 130, 147                                       Dacota    InSdirianRso,be1r9t,7
ButlerG, eAo.rgFer,anDk.,D.1,95154,                     Dalyell,
       George G., 21 1                                                                   78
                                                        Damaras, 127, 130, 141
                                         156.

G. G., Medallist R.S. Soc., 212                                   endurance  of pain,         35
Montagu, D.D., Master of                                Damascus, 102

Trinity, 160                                            Daniell, Prof., 41
                                                        Danube, 50
Buxton, Charles, 69                                     Darwin, D. Erasmus, 6, 22, 85, 288
Byron, Lord (the poet), 49, 63, 170                     Charles his
           Admiral, 8                                   Dr. Robert,          son,          7
                                                                               7,        22
                                                        on C"hAarrtlesofRT. ,rathveel,"Na1tu63ral;isvt,isitslettteor,
Cairo, 86
Cambridge, 58                                           at Down, 169 ; misunderstood, 287 ;
Camel, desiccated, 89                                   letter to me on Hereditary Genius,
Cameron    of Lochiel,                                  290
Campbell,               190                       Lord
             Hon. F.,    afterwards                         Major Leonard, 173, 228
   Stratheden and Campbell, 65, 77
Candolle, de, Alphonse, 291                                    Prof. Sir George,              290
Canning, 85                                             Dasent, Sir G. , 39
                                                        Dead Sea, 106
Caravan, 89                                             Decaisne, Prof. J., 175
Carlyle, 169, 322
Carpenter, Prof. W. B., 10                              Deftadar of Shendy, 91, 92
Cattle Show at Plymouth, 280                            De la Rue, 227
                                                        Delirium tremens, 38
Cayley, Prof. Arthur, 53, 71                            Denman, Justice Hon. G., 70, 74
Celibacy (of clergy), 314
Centiles, table of, 267, 299                            Derby races, 178, 179
Chain armour, 107                                       Deviations from Median,
                                                                                              299
                                                        Dewar, Sir J., 302
Chandos-Pole, Col. Sacheverel,                          Dickson, J. Hamilton, 302
                                               7
Childhood and Boyhood, 13
Chinaman, 317                                           Directory, Finger Prints, 255
Chree,  Dr., 229                                        Dogs, breeding for intelligence, 318
Clark,  W. G., 70                                       Dongola, 95
                                                        Drowning, escape from,
Classics, Senior, heredity in, 289                      Drunken man operated                   45  35
Claverdon, 110                                          Druse chief, 102                      on,

CCllieffromrdo,nt-\FVe.rrKan.d,2, i6154                 Du Cane, Sir Edmund, 259
                                                        Duddeston, 2
Clouds, smoke, from bursting shell, 236
                                                        Duelling, 75
CCoobmrap,ospioteisonPofarntgr,a2i9t8s and Stereo
                                                        Eclipse, 188
   scopic Maps, 259
Constantinople, 52                                      EEdgsytopnte,an1d14the Soudan,                   83
Cooke, Messrs., 226
Copley Medal, 71                                        Electric telegraph, 119
Correlations, 302                                       EEElmmepiinrhaRBnoet uy,rFob2an0ht5e, in1,07146
Corona at eclipse, 188                                  English Men of Science, 219
Cory, W. Johnson, 67                                    Epigram Club, 68
Costigan, Capt., 106
Count O., 62
                                                        Erhardt, 146, 198
                                                    INDEX                                                             335

Erongo, 131, 137                                           George IV.,  45            Africa,        128
Eugenics, 310, 319                                         Germans in
Evans, Rev. Charles (Brit. Assoc.),                                     S.W.

    218                                                    Ghou    DWam. uFp.,,  130
                                                           Gibbs,                74
       Capt. Sir Frederick, 233
Extinction of families, 305                                Giddiness (see Illnesses), 16,                 155
                                                           Giessen, 48
FalstafFs soliloquy, I                                     Gladstone, Mr.        W.         E., 249
Family likeness, 302                                       Goldie, Sir George, 173
Farr, rDecro.,rd2s9,2293                                   Granada, 52
Farrar, F. (Dean of Canterbury),                           Grange, the, 169
                                                           Grant, Col., 200
                                                           Grove, Hon. Justice Sir Wm., 42,
                                                    211,

    244                                                        219                                   Russell,         181,
                                                           Gummi schuhe, 306
IIIFarrer, Lord, 233                                       Gurney, Hudson, 6

Faiakerly,                                                 Gurney, Mr. and Mrs.
Fellow (of a Scientific Society), 222
Fever, 102, 106                                            182

Fidgets, counting number of, 278                           Gurneys of Earlham, 9
Finger-prints, 252, 254                                    Guy's Hospital, 262

        letter from Bertillon on, 255                      HHaalhlnam, ,ReHva. rHryugFo.,,  135,  1  145
FitzRoy, Admiral, 229, 232                                 Hallam, Henry, 65,               65,      15
Forbes, Edward, 216
                                                                                             79
Forensic medicine,    42
Frazer, J.  G.,
                 105                                       Hand Heliostat, 165
Free will,  295                                            Hans Larsen, 134, 141, 149
Frere, Sir Bartle, 206                                     Hanwell, photographs of lunatics, 262
     Hook ham, 85
                                                           Harris, Capt., 122

     Robert, 45, 85                                        Harrow, 160

Freshfield, Douglas, 212                                   Hausa language, 172
Fry, Mrs., 6                                               Haviland,  Dr., 47
                                                           Hawkins,   F. Vaughan,
                                                                                                  191, 306
Galton, hamlet of, 5                                       Heliostat, 61, 226 ; hand, 165
Galton, Samuel, 2, 5, 1 1 ; Samuel John,                   Henry, Sir Edward,
2, 3, 4, 18 j Samuel Tertius (my                           Heredity, 287                    256

father), 2, 8, 47, 82 ; Hubert, 8 ;                        Herschel, Sir John, 188
                                                                   Sir William, 252
Howard, 8 ; Theodore, 9 ; Sir                              Hill,   Sir Rowland, 3
Douglas, 10, 122, 228 ; A. Violetta                        Hills,   Judge and Mrs.,

(my mother), 10, 155 ; Bessy (Mrs.                                                          222
                                                           Hints to Travellers, 163
(WMhrse.ler),Momillyiet)s,ister,II,  14,     84  ;   Lucy
                                                    Adele
                                          84;              Hippopatami, 95
                                                           Historical Society, 76
(Mrs. Bunbury), 13, 83, 156 ; Emma,                        Hodgson, Joseph, 22,
84, 155; Darwin (my brother), 84;                                                           39,      85
Erasmus (my brother), 16, 79, 83,                          Holden, H., 21, 76
                                                           Hollond, Mr. and Mrs. Robert,
   156, 164; Mrs. Francis                 G. (my           Hooker, Sir Joseph, 175                                    183
   wife), 154, 220                        vignette,        Hopkins, William, 64, 81
Galtonia Candicans, 175 ;
                                                           Horner, Leonard, 46
323                                                        Horse in gallop (conventional), 264
Garibaldi, 285                                             Hospitals, Birmingham, 26, 43, 135 ;
Gassiott, J. P., 228, 250
Gauss's law, 299, 304                                         Guy's, 262 ; King's College, 43 ; St.
Gell, Bishop of Madras, 75                                    George's, 47, 82 ; uses for experi
Genera and patterns in finger prints,
  2«                                        ,                  ment, 44
              R. S,,oci.ety,                        150,
Geographical                         122, 126,             Houghton, Lord, 204, 216

162, 210                                                   HHHuuugmnhteaisnn,gMFara.cnuTdlotmSy,h, o12o66t76ing, iio

Geographical Society, Cairo, 97                            Hunt Club, Leamington, 110
GBOGRArHY AND EAST AFRICA, I98
336 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Hunting, Queen's Stag Hounds, 115;        Leamington, 18, 110, 155
   New Forest, 119                        Lebanon, 104
                                          Lesseps, 161
Hutton, Crompton, 78                      Levanting and re-levanting, 104
Huxley, 172, 222, 258                     Le Verrier, 229
Huxley Lecture, Anthrop. Inst., 319       Liebig, Prof., 48
Hyacinthus Candicans (see Galtonia)       Lighthouse, 114
Hypnotism, 80                             Lingen, Lord, 78
                                          Linz, 49, 247
Hysteria, 38                              Lions, 133, 247
                                          Lister, Lord, 37
Ideas, new, 287                           Livingstone, 122, 205, 206
Idols, 277                                Lloyd, Charles, 123
Illnesses, at Cambridge, 79 ; during      Lochiel, Cameron of, 190
                                          Lords, House of, 314
   many years, 116; in 1866, i$5, 2I5     Loup, Saut de, 192
Index of Correlation, 302 ; curative, 33  Lovelace, Earl of, 170
Insanity, experiments, 276
International Exhibition of 1884, 245     Lubbock, Sir J. (Lord Avebury), 177
Iron Gates (Danube), 50
                                          Luchon, 189
J Jaffa, 105                              Lyell, Mrs. (Life of Leonard Horner),
1Jeffreys, J. Gwyn, 10
J erusalem, 106                               46
                                          Lymington, 1 19
Jeune, Dr. (Bishop of Peterborough), 20
Johnson, Dr. Alice, 98                    Macalister, Dr. Donald, 212, 304
Johnson, Sir George, 42                   Macaulay, 74
                                          MacKinder, 212
JJohnson, H. Vaughan, 74                  MacLennan, J. F. , 67
  Jonker, 129, 135, 136, 146
                                          MacLennan, Mrs., 192, 195
J Jordan, 106                             Macmillan, Vacation Tourists, 1S6

Kahichene, 141                            Magnetism, animal, 80
Kaoko, 142                                Mahomed, Dr., 262
Kay, Sir Edward, Lord Justice, 69         Maine, Sir Henry, 66
Kay, Joseph, 68                           Maori, endurance of pain, 36
Kellig (water-skin), 106                  Markham, Sir Clement, 210
Kelvin, Lord, 60
                                          Marks for  physical efficiency,  214
Kemble, J. Mitchell, 286                  Matheson,  Rev. -- , 59, 60

Kenilworth, school at, 18                 Maury, 229
                                          Medallions, 196
KKeeswwicOk,bs5e9rvatory and Meteoro      Medals (see List, p. 331); R.G. Soc.,
   logy, 224
                                          ISO
Kew Observatory, history of, 225          Median estimates in Juries, 281
Khartum, 92, 93
Kilimandjaro, 198                         Medical Studies, 22
King's College, 39, 56; Hospital, 43      Mehemet Ali, 86
Knapsack sleeping-bag, 189
Knowles, General, 164                     Memorial of African Travellers,  204
Korosko, 86
Kuisip R., 129                            Mendel,   308  Niel,  73
Kustendji, 49, 51                         Menzies,
                                                    Sir
                                          Merrifield, Mr., 307
                                          Mesmerism, 80

Laboratory, Anthropometric, Health        Meteorographica, 232
   Exhibition, 245, 270 ; S. Kensington,  Meteorological Committee and Council,

249 ; for Faculty generally, 267          233
                                          Microscopes, 41
Ladysmith, 126                            Millais, Sir Everard,
                                          Millau, 194               309
Lamb,  Charles,
                 39Damaras,  Ovampo,      Miller, Dr. Allen, 48
Lands  ok the
   and Namaquas, 138
Lazarette (see Quarantine)                Miseri's Hotel, 52
                                          Models (Art of Travel), 164
                                            INDEX                                                                               337

Mombas, 198                                     Pelly, Sir Lewis, 10, 193
                                                Per-Centiles, 267
Monkeys, 91, 109          J 94                  Petherick, Mr., 94, 298
Montpellier le Vieux,                           Petrels,
Muller, Prof. Max., 283                         Petrie,
Murchison, Sir R., 150, 208                               P1ro14f.,
                                                                     97
Murie, Dr., 298                                 Phenician inscription (alleged), 208
Murray, Admiral Hon., 171                       Photographs, analytical, 263 ; com
Mutations, 313                                     posite, 261
             Mr.,
Muybridge,    F.,    264                        Photographic lenses, 228
Myers, Rev.         60
                                                Pilgrimages, 90
Mytton, 1 10, 289                               Pills, 29
                                                Pitch, scalded legs, 36
Namaquas, 127, 136                              Pitt, his voice, 39
Nangoro, 142 ; his death, 144                   Pollock, Sir Frederick, 167
Nassau balloon, 183                             Portuguese, 128, 143
Nature and Nurture (twins), 294                 Prizes, first and second, 282

Naworth Castle, 300                             Problem (earth's diameter), 62
Newstead Abbey, 170                             Proteus, the, 56
New York Herald, 206                            Provisions, walking tour, 159
N'gami Lake, 122, 127, 147                      Puck (comic newspaper), 68
Niles, White and Blue, 94 ; sources         of  Pump near Jaffa, 105
                                                Punch, 68, 277
White, 199                                      Pyrenees, 189
Noble,  SFrier dAenridcrke,w,M2.P38.,
North,                                 180

Marianne, 181                                   Quantification of the Predicate, 174
Northbrook, Lord, 202                           Quarantine, at Syra, 53 ; Ancona, 54 ;

Number-forms, 270                                  Trieste (with Spoglio), 55 ; Beyrout,
                                                    102 ; Marseilles, 108
Observations, self-recording, 234               Quassia, 27
Oliphant, Lawrence, 161, 162, 172               Quetelet, Prof., 304
Olympus, Mt., 52                                Quincey, De, 62
mOriginal sin, 317
Orkneys,     C,                                 Rabbi, Chief, of Dantzig, 272
Oswell, W.         122

Otchimbingue, 129                               Rabbits, experiments          on, 297
Ovambonde, 138, 142                             Race Improvement,              310
Ovampo limit, 130, 142                          Rae, Dr., 161
Oxen, 146                                       Raffles, Sir Stamford,
Oyster-catcher (bird), 1 14                                                   173
                                                Ramsgate,   3--02,            214
                                                Rath, Rev.               134
P., Mr., 23                                     Rawson, Sir Rawson,

Packe, Charles, 189                             Reaction time, 248
Paget, Sir James, 36                            Reader, the, 168
                                                Red Lion Club, 216
Pain, sense of, 35
Pangenesis, 297                                 Regression, 301, 318
Pantagraph,  drill,                             Resemblances, measurement of, 250
                     232,  235
Parentage,    i
Parker, Sir Hyde, 123, 152                      Reynolds,  MMr.i,ss,213408
                                                Roberts,

Parkyns,    MJoahnsnf,ieRld.,A.9,2,40172        RRRRoooonbbmaeealrrdnttssseoo,snn, ,,SJi.rRP,reFo2v.f7.,.8--2C2r9o, o1m73, 267
Partridge,
Prof. Richard, 39
Passage roses, 239
Pasteur, 37                                     Ronaldshay, N., 114
                                                Rougemont, Mr., 207
Pearson, Prof. Karl, 283, 294 ; correla         Royal Society, 219, 221
   tions, 304 ; ancestral law, 309, 320
                                                Royat, 154
Peas, sweet, experiments, 300
Pedigree stock, photographs of, 217             Rugby boys, 69
338 MEMORIES OF MY LIFE

Sabine, General Sir Edward, 224                               Stratheden, Lord (see Campbell )
St. Helena, 148                                               Strickland, 63
St. Simonians, 87                                             Suffocation,
Sand Fontein, 132                                             Swakop R.,     185
Sandow, adjudging prizes, 279                                                129
Sanity, tableland of, 38                                      Swartboy, 135, 145
Saut de Loup, 192                                             Swedes, 124                                                      181
Scawfell, 61                                                  Sylvester, Prof., 71

Schepmansdorf, 132                                            Symmonds, J. Addington,
Schimmelpenninck, Mrs., 9                                     Symplegades, 51
Scott, Robert, 240                                            Syra, Island,
Seals, 112                                                                   53
                                                              Syria, ioi

Semney, temple at, 96
SSheaxtwa,ntW, .12N5,.,222634                                 Tanganyika, 199
Shells, smoke of, 236                                         Target for riflemen, 166
Shendy (massacre),                                            Tarn R., 194
Sheppard, W. F.,                 91,  95                      Taylor, Tom, 68
                               283
                                                              Telotype, 120

SShheotlratndTso, u1r12t, o11t8he East, 48                    Thermometer, 227
                                                              Tiberias, Lake of, 106
                                                              Time, sense of, 277
Sierra Nevada, 52                                             Toad, pet, 114
Simon, Sir John, 41, 294
Sin, original, 316                                            Tounobis,  of41s,el1f-3r1e,co1r8d5ing
Sinai, peninsula of, 184                                      Tracings                                                         instruments,

Singapore, 174                                                    234. 23°
Slave hunting, 90                                             Transfusion of blood, 297
SSmleeeep,ingD-rb.a, g4,0,18491, 42                           TTrreinpiatnyniCnogl,leg3e1, 58, 81
Smell, sense of, used in arithmetic,                          Twins, 294
                                                              Tyndall, Prof., 172, 191, 254
    283
Smith, Gen. Sir Harry, 126
Smith, Prof. Henry, 240
Snowdon, 61                                                   Union Society, 75         and Eugenics,
                                                              University of London
Social Life (medallions), 169
SSoocuiotlhog-Wicael stpaApefrrsic(aeu,ge1n2i1cs), 321            320

Spectacles under water, 186                                   Vacation Tourists, 186
                                                              Victoria Nyanza, 199
Speke, Captain, 199 ; death, 202 ;                            Vienna, 25, 50
memorial, 203                                                 Vignolles, Mr., 187
Spencer, Herbert, 167, 178, 257, 292                          Visions of sane persons, 273
Spoglio (in quarantine), 55                                   Vivisecting, natural, 32
Sports or mutations,                                          Vox populi, 280
Spottiswoode, Wm.,             313        210,          232,  Vries, de, 253
                               72, 183,

   ?5°. 3°4      --,           285
Spurgeon, Rev.

Stanley, Dean, 69
     15th Earl Derby, 76
     Sir Henry M., 205, 207                                   Wagons, 139, 142
                                                              Walfish Bay, 127,
Statistical instinct, 4                                       Walrond, F., 69     132

     units, 298                                               WWWaaatttseeorr,ns, dnaiRgkegevisn. g(HDf.aonrW,ub1.e,3)8,30551
Statistician and statesman,
Statistics, medical, 44                   312

Stereoscopic maps, 264                                        Weather charts, 231
Stewardson, 132                                               Webb, Mr., 170, 206
Stewart and Balfour, 229                                      Weldon, Prof., 320
Strachey, General Sir Richard,                          212,  Whales (Shetland), 112

241                                                           Wharton, Admiral Sir Wm., 165
                              INDEX  339

Wheatstone, Sir C. , 40       Wordsworth, Christopher, and his three
Whewell, Dr., 6o, 69              sons, 58
Whipple, Mr., 229
Whistles for high notes, 247  Young (1st Trinity), 76
White Nile, 94
Wilberforce, Bishop, 171      Zanzibar, 171, 198, 200
Wind roses, 238               Zealander, New, 36
            Printed by
Mouuon & Gibb Limited,

r

