THE LIFE

                                       or

WILLIAM THOMSON

         BARON KELVIN OF LARGS

                                                       BY

        SILVANUS P^&*THOMPSON

                             IN TWO VOLUMES
                                          VOL. I

           MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED

            ST. MARTIN'S STREET, LONDON
                                      1910


     Utin.un caetera naturae phaenomena ex principiis
mechanicis eodem argumentandi genere derivare licet.

                                                              NEWTON,

                          Phil. Nat. Principia Mathematica (Praef.).

            206710


         PREFACE

THIS Biography was begun in June 1906 with the
kind co-operation of Lord Kelvin, who himself

furnished a number of personal recollections and
data. His death in December 1907 affected the
project of the work by necessarily extending its

scope to present a much more comprehensive

account of his career than the sketch originally
planned. The mass of letters, diaries, and other

documents which he left became available for rilling

in the outlines, and the task of arrangement and

selection from these greatly extended the period of

preparation.               has been so  universally
                         her prolonged  illness and
    The sympathy which
felt for Lady Kelvin in

gradual recovery has manifested itself in many

ways ; and various friends have lightened for

the author the responsibility of dealing with
the available materials out of which to frame an

authentic record of Lord Kelvin's long and strenuous

career.

    Thanks are due to many relations and scientific
friends of Lord Kelvin, who have generously placed

viii LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

at the author's disposal letters covering every period

of Lord Kelvin's life. Amongst the many who have

thus aided him, the author ventures to mention in par

ticular Dr. and Mrs. James T. Bottomley, Mr. James

Thomson, and Miss Mary Hancock Thomson, the
Misses King, Mrs. Ramsay MacDonald, Miss Jessie
Crum, Miss May Crum, Mrs. Tait, Miss Andrews,
Mrs. FitzGerald, Mrs. Hopkinson, Sir Edward Fry,
Sir James Fender, Prof. G. F. Barker, and Miss
Jane Barnard. Frau Ellen von Siemens has with
great generosity furnished a long series of letters
written to her lamented father Excellenz H. von

Helmholtz. Madame Mascart has similarly sup
plied others written to the late M. Mascart. Lord
Rayleigh and Sir George Darwin each placed at
the author's disposal a very large number of letters,
many of them of great scientific interest, and of

which a selection only is printed here. Of the long
series of letters which passed from 1846 to 1903
between Lord Kelvin and Sir George Stokes, none

have been inserted in the present work, save isolated

extracts of the year 1896. Sir Joseph Larmor,
who edited for publication the two volumes of

Stokes's Memoirs and Scientific Correspondence, has
prepared these letters for publication in a separate

volume which it is now proposed to amplify by

including selections from Lord Kelvin's other

scientific correspondence, along with excerpts from
his diaries and unpublished manuscripts. Hence

PREFACE  a.

the author has deliberately omitted many letters of

great scientific value, giving rather such as seemed

to possess a more general interest.

    With grateful thanks the author acknowledges

his indebtedness for advice and help during the
writing and printing of the book to Mr. James
Thomson, Miss Mary Hancock Thomson, Dr. and

Mrs. Bottomley, the Misses King, and Mr. J. D.

Hamilton Dickson, all of whom have assisted either
in criticism or in proof-reading. The last-named
in particular, as an old pupil of Lord Kelvin and a
Fellow of Peterhouse, possesses a unique fund of

knowledge, which he has unstintingly placed at the
author's disposal, correcting innumerable points of

detail.

    Four veteran contemporaries of Lord Kelvin in
his Cambridge days -- Professor Frederick Fuller,

Professor Hugh Blackburn, the Rev. Canon Gren-

side, and the Rev. J. A. L. Airey--were so good as

to furnish reminiscences of that time. Alas ! while

these sheets have been passing through the press

the Rev. J. A. L. Airey. Professor Blackburn, and

Professor Fuller have all passed away.
    An intimate family narrative written by Lord

Kelvin's eldest sister, Mrs. David King, who died

in 1896, now edited by her daughters, has just
been published. It gives a picture of the life,
from childhood to adolescence, of Lord Kelvin as

a member of a singularly gifted and harmonious

x LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

family. The author of the present work has

purposely abstained from trenching on that narrative,
possessing, as it does, an intrinsic value of its own,

quite apart from the information it affords of Lord
Kelvin's early years.

    It has been the author's desire to let documents

and letters speak as far as possible for themselves ;

and if he has not always been able to avoid letting

his own views tinge these pages, he has at least
endeavoured to avoid attributing to others that
which is only his own. Doubtless there are many

of Lord Kelvin's former pupils who will find gaps
in the presentation of his life and character, as
must needs be when the author can himself claim
no nearer association than that of disciple. But the
disciple of one who was himself conspicuously faith
ful in little things, must at least try to be faithful.
The peculiar and affectionate admiration, amount

ing in some almost to worship, which characterizes
those who had the high privilege of that more
intimate association, spreads far beyond their circle
to the disciple. Let it be hoped that the affectionate
admiration which he too shares may not have warped

his judgment.

    The late Professor Ayrton kindly gave the author

permission to appropriate extracts from his article

on " Kelvin in the "Sixties," in which he narrated
his own experiences when a member of Lord
Kelvin's enthusiastic volunteer laboratory corps.

PREFACE  xi

    In dealing with Lord Kelvin's contributions to

Geology, to Mathematics, and some other depart

ments of knowledge, the author has had to rely
greatly upon the judgment of others. In this par

ticular connexion he gratefully acknowledges help

given by Professor J. W. Gregory, Professor A. E.

H. Love, Professor George Forbes, and Professor

J. A. Ewing. Professor Andrew Gray, formerly
pupil, then assistant, lastly successor of Lord Kelvin

in the Chair of Natural Philosophy at Glasgow,

has very kindly permitted the author to appropriate
the extracts on pp. 651-653 which relate to Lord
Kelvin's lectures to his students ; and he has helped
the author in various other ways in relation to Lord

Kelvin's work in the University.
    Miss Agnes G. King has kindly furnished the

XIII;portrait - photograph reproduced in Plate

Professor J. D. Cormack the original photographs

for Plates VIII, X, and XV; and Professor Edgar

Crookshank that for Plate XIV.
   To the proprietors of Punch the author acknow

ledges the special permission given to reprint the

extracts from poems given on pp. 576 and 610.

To the proprietors of the Daily Graphic similar
thanks are due for the sketch-portrait of p. 899.
The author gladly acknowledges the services of
his assistant Mr. Ernest W. Moss in the pre

paration of the Bibliography and the verification
of references.


CONTENTS

CHAPTER I

CHILDHOOD, AND UPBRINGING AT GLASGOW

Birth, June 26, 1824, I ; Thomsons of Ballynahinch, County Down, I ;  PACKS
     James Thomson, LL. D., of Belfast, and his Family, 2 ; Migra      1-22
       tion to Glasgow as Professor of Mathematics, 6 ; Boyhood of
       William Thomson, 7 ; Matriculation, at age of 10, into
       Glasgow University, & ; Gains Medal for Mathematical Essay on

    IIthe Figure of the Earth, 9 ; Reminiscences of Old Glasgow-

     College Days, ; Prof. J. Pringle Nichol, 12; Visits to Paris

       and Frankfort, 15; Fourier's Book and Faraday Fire, 17.
       APPENDIX : The Visit to Frankfort, 20 ; the Thomson gens at

        Glasgow, 21 . . . . . . .

                     CHAPTER II

                                                CAMBRIDGE

Enters St. Peter's College, Cambridge, April 6, 1841, 23 ; Remin
      iscences of Canon Grenside, 25 ; First Paper to the Cambridge
     Mathematical Journal, 25 ; Tutors, Cookson and Hopkins, 27 ;
      Rooms in College, 28 ; Letters to his Father and Sister, 29 ;
     Sage Advice from Home, 29 ; Boating, 31 ; A Party at
      Hopkins's, 32 ; Thomson buys a Boat, 36 ; Gains the
      Gisborae Scholarship, 40 ; Papers for the Cambridge Mathe
     matical Journal, 41 ; Gains a Mathematics Prize, 46 ; Falls
      under the Fascination of Music, 47 ; Prof. James Thomson's
     Ambition, 48 ; A Cambridge Diary, 49 ; Joins the Peterhouse
      Boat, 58 ; Rowing Reminiscences, 59 ; Wins the Colquhoun
      Silver Sculls, 6 1 ; Foundation and Rise of the Cambridge

     University Musical Society, 69 ; Rev. J. A. L. Airey's

       Reminiscences, 74 ; Hopkins's Reading Party at Cromer, 78 :

xiv LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

                                                                        l-AGKS

Projects Series of Essays on the Mathematical Theory of Elec

tricity, 83 ; The Senate-House Examination, 90 ; Results of

the Senate-House and Smith's Prize Examinations, 97 ; Parkin

son's Pace, 98 ; Prizes, 109 ; Reminiscences of the Senate-House
Examination, no
                 .  .  .  .  .                                          23-112

                   CHAPTER III

          POST-GRADUATE STUDIES AT PARIS AND PETERHOUSK

Termination of Degree Course, 113; Green's Essay, 114; Travels to
       Paris, 114; Introductions and Studies in Paris, 1 16 ; Meets Liou-
       ville, 117; Meets Regnault, 122 ; Enters Regnault's Laboratory,
        124 ; Dynamical Notions and Ideas about Electricity, 130 ; Studies
       Clapeyron's Paper, 132; Returns to Cambridge, 134; Meets
       Faraday, 134; Elected a Foundation Fellow of Peterhouse, 134 ;
      Assumes Editorship of the Cambridge MathematicalJournal, 135 ;
       Establishes Consistency between the Laws of Coulomb and
      Discovery of Faraday, 141 ; Contribution to B.A. 1845 Meet
       ing, 144; Letters to Faraday, 146; Communicates Principle of
       Electrical Images to Liouville, 151; Appointed College Lecturer in
       Mathematics at Peterhouse, 1 56 ; Vacancy of Natural Philosophy
       Chair at Glasgow, 160 . . . . . 113-160

                      CHAPTER IV

                                    THE GLASGOW CHAIR

The Chair of Natural Philosophy, 161 ; Collecting Testimonials, 163 ;
       Announces his Candidature, 164 ; Other Candidates, 167 ;
       Thomson's Testimonials, 167 ; The Appointment, 184 ; Inaugural
       Dissertation, De Caloris Distributione, 184; The Father's
       Delight, 188 . . . . . . 161-189

                      CHAPTER V

                                 THE YOUNG PROFESSOR

Enters upon the Duties of the Chair, 190 ; The Introductory Lecture,
       190; Inadequateness of the Apparatus for Teaching, 193;
       Improvement of his Department, 194 ; Original Work, 196 :
       Elected a Member of the Philosophical Society of Glasgow, 198 ;

                         CONTENTS                                         xv

Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, 199 ; Summer                    rAGBS
Attractions and Work, 199 ; Visit to Paris and Switzerland, 205 ;
Scientific Work, 207 ; Death of Professor James Thomson, 209 ;
First Communication to the Royal Society, 210 ; Views on Dia-

.....magnetic Forces, 214; Tour in Scandinavia, 218; Revisits

Paris, 223 ; Work on Thermodynamics, 225 : Fellowship of the
Royal Society, 226 ; Absolute Units, 227 ; The Dissipation of
Energy, 230 ; Marriage to Margaret Crum, 233 ; President of
Physical Section of B.A., 234 ; Trip to the Mediterranean, 238.
APPENDIX : Introductory Lecture to the Course on Natural
Philosophy, 239                                                      190-251

                         CHAPTER VI

                         THERMODYNAMICS

James Prescott Joule, 253 ; Heat and Temperature, 253 ; " Caloric,"

254 ; Carnot's Treatise, 256 ; Clapeyron's Exposition, 259 ;
Joule's Investigations, 260; The B.A. 1847 Meeting, 263;

Joule's  V2e6r6sio; n",   263 ; Thomson's Version, 264 ;       Thomson's
Doubts,                  Energy," 171 ; Carnot's Coefficient,  273 ; The

Lowering of the Freezing- Point of Water by Pressure, 275 ;

Carnot does not deny the Transformation of Heat into Work, 277 ;

Rankine and Clausius, 277; Thomson's Work, 280; The Laws

of Equivalence and Transformation, 281 ; The Joule-Thomson
Effect, 285 ; Maxwell's Demons, 286 ; Helmholtz and The
Conservation of Energy, 287 ; Thomson's Contribution, 289 ;

Controversy over Various Claims, 291 ; Experimental Investiga

tions, 292 ; Available Energy, 293  .    .                     .     252-295

                         CHAPTER VII

                         THE LABORATORY

A Lack of Necessary Data, 296 ; The First Physical Laboratory for

Students, 297 ; Early Laboratory Work, 298 ; Thomson and

Stokes, 299 ; Explanation of Foucault's Experiments on Spectra,

300 ; Laboratory Work, 304 ; Advice sought by Clerk Maxwell,

304 ; Illness of Mrs. Thomson, 305 ; Scientific Work, 306 ;

Visit to Creuznach, 308; Meets Helmholtz, 310; Friday

Evening Discourse at the Royal Institution, 312 ; The Bakerian

Lecture, 317; Return to Creuznach and Schwalbach, 320 ;

Letters to Helmholtz, 321 ; Thomson and Thackeray, 324               296-324

xvi LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

CHAPTER VIII

THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH ' FAILURE

The Electric Telegraph, 326 ; Submarine Cables, 327 ; Transmission      PAGES
      of Signals by Cables, 328 ; The Law of Squares, 329 ; Methods

       of Signalling, 332 ; Foundation of the Atlantic Telegraph Com-

       Pany. 338 ; Thomson's Anomalous Position, 338 ; How the

       Cable was made, 339 ; Research on the Conductivity of Copper,
       340; Whitehouse's Inventions, 341 ; The Cable Squadron,

       Agamemnon and Niagara, 343 ; Breaking of the Cable, 344 ;
       Discussions of Cable Problems, 344 ; Thomson's Galvanometer,
       347 ; Conductivity of the Cable, 349 ; First Testing Laboratory
      in Factory, 351 ; 1858 : Preliminary Trip, 353 ; The Expedition
       s"il*, 357 , Paying-out begun, 358 ; Return to Queenstown,
      358 ; A Second Attempt succeeds, 359 ; Reminiscences of a
       Member of the Electrical Staff, 360 ; Wild Rejoicings, 365 ;
       Thanks from the Directors, 366 ; How not to work a Cable,

       367 ; Termination of Whitehouse's Appointment, 368 ; Enfeeble-

       ment of the Cable, 372 ; Failure of the Cable, 374 ; Whitchouse
       and the Directors, 374 ; The Last Signals, 384 ; Committee of

     Inquiry, 385 ; Thomson's Welcome in Glasgow, 388 ; A Noble

Speech, 389 . . . . . . 325-39°

CHAPTER IX

STRENUOUS YEARS

Impracticability of Electric Power, 397; Atmospheric Electricity,

399 ; Letters to Helmholtz, 401 ; Volunteer Rifle Movement,

405 ; Discourse at the Royal Institution on Atmospheric Elec
tricity, 407 ; Tait appointed to the Natural Philosophy Chair at

Edinburgh, 408 ; Thomson and Fleeming Jenkin, 409 ; Thom
son's Accident, 412; The Green-Books, 415; The Electrical

Standards Committee, 4(7 ; Donald MacFarlane, 420; Proposed

Treatise on Natural Philosophy, 42 1 ; Helmholtz's Reminiscences

of a Visit to Glasgow, 429 ; Honorary Degree at Cambridge,

437 ; The Rede Lecture, 437 ; Honorary Degree at Oxford, 443 ;

Prof. Ayrton's Reminiscences, 445  .  ..                          397-446

                      CONTENTS                                                 xvii

                CHAPTER X

THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE

                                                                               TACKS

Existing Books, 447 ; Tait, 449 ; Origin of the Collaboration, 451 :

Skeleton of the Treatise, 454 ; Suggestion of a Shorter Elementary

Work, 457 ; Correspondence, 458 ; Progress, 465 ; The Glasgow

Pamphlet, 466 ; Prof. Ayrton's Recollections, 466 ; Delays, 467 ;
Publication of Volume I., 467; Characteristic Features of the

Book, 468 ; A German Translation, 471 ; Inadequate Remunera

tion of the Authors, 473 ; A Second Edition, 474 ; Abandonment

of further Volumes, 474 ; Appreciation of Tait, 478 ; The Unseen

Universe, 479 ; Reprint of Newton's Principia, 480 .                447-480

                CHAPTER XI

THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH : SUCCESS

Reviving the Project, 481 ; Improvements since 1858, 482 ; The

Cable, 482 ; The Great Eastern, 482 ; The Expedition, 484 ;

Faults and Failure, 485 ; Attempt to Raise the Cable, 486 ;

Work for a New Cable, 489 ; Laying Commenced, 491 ; The

....Great Eastern Telegraph and Test-Room Chronicle, 492 ; Com

pletion, 493 ; Rejoicings, 493 ; Raising the 1865 Cable, 495 ;
Completion of the 1865 Cable, 496; Latimer Clark's and

Collett's Experiments, 496 ; Congratulations, 498 ; Honours,
499; City of London Banquet, 501 ; Freedom of the City of

Glasgow, 502 ; Knighthood Conferred, 505 ; Lecture at the
Glasgow Athenaeum, 506                                              481-508

                CHAPTER XII

                LABOUR AND SORROW

The Structure of Matter, 509 ; Helmholtz's Paper on Vortex Motion,

First Paper on  5V1o9rt;exT-hAetom" sR,ep5l1e3n;ishLeert,t"er
Other Work,
....510;                                                        to Helmholtz,
                                                               521; Death of
513;
Faraday, 522; Incidents at the B.A. Meeting of 1867, 523;

Determination of "v," 524; Lady Thomson's Health, 526;

Project of the French Atlantic Cable, 527; Lady Thomson

grows worse, 531 ; Death of Lady Thomson, 532 ; Lady

Thomson's Poems, 533                                                509-534

xviii LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

        CHAPTER XIII

        THE GEOLOGICAL CONTROVERSY

                                                                                                                                                      PAGKS

The Solidity of the Earth, 535 ; Age of the Earth, 535 ; His Claim

as a Naturalist, 536 ;   The    Age of   the Sun's Heat and the
Secular Cooling of the  Earth,           Uniformitarianism," 537:
                                 537; "

Doctrine of Uniformity Refuted, 540 ; Geological Time, 540 :

Challenges the Huttonian Theory, 541 ; Huxley's Address to

the Geological Society, 544 ; Thomson's Reply, 547 .                      535-55'

        CHAPTER XIV

LATER TELEGRAPHIC WORK : THE SIPHON RECORDER

The French Atlantic Cable, 552 ; Thomson and Varley and Jenkin,

552 ;   Lord Stanley, Rector of   GTlahsegow"   University, 553 ; First-
fruits  of the Inventions, 554 ;               Thomson Experimental

Scholarships," 555; Parliamentary Representation, 557; An

Offer from Cambridge, 558 ; The Cambridge Chair, 563 ; "The

Size of Atoms," 566 ; Removal of Glasgow University to Gilmore

Hill, 568 ; The Siphon Recorder, 570 ; First Exhibition in
England, 575 ; The Lalla Rookh, 580 ; Admiralty Committee

on the Design of Ships of War, 583       .     .  .        552-584

              LIST OF PLATES

               VOLUME I

PLATE                                                   FACE PAGE

I. Lord Kelvin (1897).......1846Photogravureby T. and R.
        Annan and Sons
                               .»                      Frontispiece

1 1. Quadrangle of the Old Glasgow College    .         .            8
IV. Professor William Thomson, 1852.                             164

 ....by Emery Walker
III. Facsimile of Letter of William Thomson, announcing

           his candidature for the Chair of Natural Philosophy,
V. Margaret Thomson (circa 1858).
                                            Photogravure
.....Emery Walker
                                                                 232

......VII. Sir William Thomson, 1870. From photograph byPhotogravure by

                                                                 308

VI. Sir William Thomson, 1870. Photogravure             by       446
          Emery Walker from photograph by Fergus
                                                            .

       Fergus                                                    534

VIII. New University Buildings, Gilmore Hill, Glasgow.
       .568From photograph by Stewart
                                  .         .

IX. Lord Kelvin and his Compass.......VOLUME IIPhotogravure by
        T. and R. Annan and Sons  . . Frontispiece

X. Sir William Thomson's Yacht Lalla Rookh .            . 616

XI. Netherhall, Largs. From photograph by Stewart, of

       Largs                                                     649

       ......Glasgow
xx LIFE OF LORD KELVIN
XIII. Sir William Thomson. From photograph by Miss
PLATE                                                       PACK PACK
 ....Agnes G. King, 1888
XII. Lord Kelvin's Lecture- Room in the University of

XIV. Lord Kelvin visiting the Kananaskis Falls, N.W.        735

 .....Canada, 1897. From photograph by Prof. Edgar          880

       M. Crookshank                                        1003

XV. Lord Kelvin's Last Lecture, 1899 . . . 101 1

XVI.   Lord and Lady Kelvin in their house at Eaton Place,

       1906. Photogravure by Emery Walker from              .1188

       photograph by Russell  .  .  .

        CHAPTER I

CHILDHOOD, AND UPBRINGING AT GLASGOW

WILLIAM THOMSON, Baron Kelvin of Largs, was

born in Belfast on the 26th of June 1824. The
family was of Scottish origin. Three brothers,

named respectively James, John, and Robert

Thomson, migrated from the Lowlands of Scot

land about the year 1641 in the troublous times of
the civil wars. From papers in the possession of

the family it appears that John Thomson settled in
County Down at Ballymaglave (or Ballymaglymph),

and for nearly two hundred years his descendants

continued to occupy a farm called Annaghmore, near

Spa Well, Ballynahinch. On his house, on a quoin

of a building now used as a barn, James Thomson,
grandson of John Thomson, cut his name, with the
date 1707. This James Thomson had three sons,
two of whom (John and Robin) emigrated about
1755 to Buffalo Valley, New York State, and set

up as millers. The second son, James, the grand

father of Lord Kelvin, born about 1738, remained

at Ballynahinch. On 29th September 1768 he
married Agnes Nesbitt, who bore him three sons,

VOL. I             B

2  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

also named Robert, John, and James, and three

daughters. At this date the Thomsons owned

about one-quarter of the township of Ballymaglave.

According to tradition they nearly all bore the
character of being " religious, moral, patriotic,

honest, large, athletic, handsome men."

    James Thomson, the father of Lord Kelvin, was
born at Annaghmore on the 13th of November
1786. He was a man of remarkable abilities and
strong character. Brought up on the land as a farm

labourer, and receiving from his father the rudi
ments of education, he studied for himself, without

either skilled teachers or good text-books, the art
of dialling, making for himself a sun-dial, and also a
night-dial to tell the time by the position of one

of the stars of Ursa Major. The following story
is told of him :--

    It was when he was about eleven or twelve years old,

that one day the boy was observed to be working with a
slate and a bit of stone for a pencil. In the evening he
was again working by the light of a handful of shavings
he had brought in to make a blaze until the candle should
be lighted. After a little he exclaimed to his eldest
brother Robert, who was thirteen years his senior, " Robert,
I have made a discovery. I have found out how to make
dials for any latitude." " Can you show me ? " said the
brother. " Yes," said he ; and he showed him so clearly
that his brother quite understood the method.

    Three of James Thomson's dials are now in the
possession of his grandson, James Thomson, of
Newcastle-on-Tyne. On them his name is spelt

Thompson, in the fashion more common in England.

i CHILDHOOD AND UPBRINGING 3

Indeed the name is thus spelt throughout in the

old family Bible belonging to his father, and in other

documents. It is believed that James Thomson

changed the spelling when he found that in Scotland

the name was usually written without the letter^.

    In view of the intellectual abilities displayed by

James Thomson, his father allowed him to go as a
pupil to a small school l kept by Dr. Samuel Edgar
(minister of the " Secession " Presbyterian Church
at Ballynahinch) at Ballykine, near his native place,

to learn classics and mathematics ; and his abilities

were such that he was soon promoted to be assistant

teacher. It was his intention to become a Presby

terian minister. Nothing shows more clearly the

force of character of the youth than the determined

way in which he strove for self- improvement.

While still teaching at Ballynahinch during the

summers to gain his livelihood, he for four con

secutive years, from 1810 to 1814, spent the six

winter months studying at the University of

Glasgow, the session of which lasted from November

to May. He graduated M.A. in 1812. Nearly
eighty years afterwards, Lord Kelvin, on the

occasion of his installation as Chancellor of the

University, related the story of his father's  ex
                                               nor
perience as follows :--

    " There were no steamers, nor railways,

motor cars in those days. Can the young persons

of the present time imagine life to be possible

   1 See a small book, Three Ballynahinch Boys, by Rev. Wm. J. Patton,

Belfast, 1880.

4  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

under such conditions ? My father and his comrade
students, chiefly aspirants for the ministry of the
Presbyterian Synod of Ulster, and for the medical
profession in the north of Ireland, had to cross the

Channel twice a year in whatever sailing craft they
could find to take them. Once my father was

fortunate enough to get a passage in a revenue
cutter, which took him from Belfast to Greenock
in ten hours. Another of his crossings was in an

old smack whose regular duty was to carry lime,

not students, from Ireland to Scotland. The
passage took three or four days, in the course of

which the little vessel, becalmed, was carried three

times round Ailsa Craig by flow and ebb of the tide.

    " At the beginning of his fourth and last Uni

versity session, 1813-1814, my father and a party
of fellow-students, after landing at Greenock, walked
thence to Glasgow. On their way they saw a

prodigy--a black chimney moving rapidly beyond

a field on the left side of the road. They jumped
the fence, ran across the field, and saw to their
astonishment Henry Bell's Comet -- then not a year

old --travelling on the river Clyde between Glasgow
and Greenock. Their successors, five years later,

found in David N 2 pier's steamer Rob Roy (which
in 1818 commenced plying regularly between Belfast
and Glasgow) an easier, if a less picturesque and
adventurous, way between the College of Glasgow
and their homes in Ireland."

    James Thomson's persistency in his studies met
with reward : on the completion of his course in

i CHILDHOOD AND UPBRINGING 5

Glasgow in 1814 he received the appointment of
teacher of Mathematics at the Royal Belfast Aca
demical Institution, at first in the school depart
ment, being the first person to hold that post. His
duties comprised the teaching of geography as well as
arithmetic and book-keeping. In 1815 he was made
Professor of Mathematics in the College depart
ment. In the summer of 1 8 1 7 he was married to Miss
Margaret Gardner, daughter of a Glasgow merchant,
who at the time of the war of American Independence

had gone as a volunteer to fight on the British side.
    James and Margaret Thomson had seven children :

Elizabeth, born in 1819, married the Rev. David

King, LL.D., and died in 1896 ; Anna, born in

1820. married William Bottomley, and died in 1857 ;

James (LL.D., F.R.S. and Professor of Engineering,

first in Belfast, afterwards in Glasgow), born in 1822

and died in 1892; William (Lord Kelvin), born in
1824; John, born in 1826 and died in 1847; Mar

garet, born in 1827 and died in 1831 ; and Robert,
born in 1829 and died in Australia in 1905.

    The Thomsons lived in College Square East,

Belfast, in a house still standing, which was built

by Professor Thomson. Here all his children,

except the eldest daughter, were born. On the
flags in front of the house the future Lord Kelvin

and his brother James used to whip their tops, and
doubtless became familiar with the phenomenon of

the precession of a spinning body.
    " One of my earliest memories," said Lord

Kelvin, "of those old Belfast days, is of 1829, when

6  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                  CHAP.

the joyful intelligence came that the Senate of the

University of Glasgow had conferred on my father
the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws." But the

joy of the family was overshadowed by a sad event.

Margaret Thomson died in 1830, when her eldest

daughter was but twelve years old, and her youngest

boy only twelve months. The future Lord Kelvin
was but six, and his brother James eight. Their
father devoted himself to his children, taking the

two boys to sleep in his bedroom, and teaching them

himself, save that James and William both went for
a few months to the writing-school in Belfast. He
taught them in particular the use of the globes, and
began Latin with them on the Hamiltonian system
of teaching. The elder daughter Elizabeth com

piled in later years a deeply interesting narrative of

the family life, giving many details.
    In 1832 the chair of Mathematics at Glasgow

became vacant by the retirement of Professor
James Millar, who had held it for thirty-six years ;
and it was offered to James Thomson, who migrated
with his young family to Glasgow in that year.
He still kept the education of his sons in his hands.
He was indeed a gifted person --a good scholar,
capable on emergency of teaching the University

classes in classics ; and that his mathematical know

ledge was sound is attested by the text-books he

produced --including one on Differential and Integral
Calculus --books l which, though now superseded,

lishe1dJamin esBeTlfhasotmAsonT'rseabtoisoeks   cover a considerable range.  In 1819    he pub
                                                                                        a small
                                               on Arithmetic in Theory and   Practice,

i CHILDHOOD AND UPBRINGING 7

long held their own for clear exposition. He also

made several original contributions to mathematics.
James Thomson was known as a successful teacher.
It was his practice to catechise his class at the

beginning of each lecture on the work of the

preceding day, viva voce questions being passed
with energy and enthusiasm from bench to bench,

a practice which his distinguished son was wont at

times to pursue. The following anecdote is narrated
by Sir William Ramsay, whose father was at one

time a member of Thomson's class.

One day Professor Thomson asked a certain

Highland student, "Mr. M'Tavish, what do you

understand by a point ? " The answer was,
" It's just a dab ! " Again, in the course of con
struction of a diagram, the question came, " What
should I do, Mr. M'Tavish?" " Tak' a chalk in
                      " And what                 "
your hand."                        next                         " Draw a line."
                                               ?

Professor Thomson complied, and, pausing, said,

"How far shall I produce the line?" "Ad

infinitum" was the astonishing reply.
    The boys James and William were allowed to

attend informally their father's lectures at the

University, and also those of some of the other

duodecimo volume, which had a very large sale. The seventy-second edition
of this work, revised by his two sons and edited by Sir William Thomson, was
published by Messrs. Longmans in 1880. In 1827 he produced two books,
an Introduction to Modern Geography and The Romance of the Heavens. In
1830, while still in  Belfast, he  issued the  "EleFmiresnt ts   of Plane   and Spherical
Trigonometry, with     a chapter     on the                     Principles  of Analytical

Geometry," of which a fourth edition was published in London in 1844.
In 1834 he edited an edition of Euclid's Elements of Geometry, and wrote an
excellent Algebra. He was the first systematically to apply Horner's method

of solving algebraic equations to the arithmetical extraction of cube roots and
roots of higher powers. In 1831 appeared his Introduction to the Differential
and Integral Calculus, of which a second edition was printed in 1848.

8  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

professors. They often repeated at home in a

juvenile way the demonstrations they attended.
In the year 1834 or 1835 they made themselves
electrical machines and Leyden jars, and administered

electric shocks to their friends, and later they con

structed voltaic batteries.

    In October 1834 both James and William
Thomson matriculated in the University of Glas

gow, James being then twelve years of age, and
William ten years and three months. The Matricu

lation Album for the session 1834-35 bears the

entry :--
    Gulielmus Thomson, filius natus secundus Jacobi,

Math. Prof, in Academia Glasguensi.
    The signature is in William Thomson's own

handwriting; the remaining words in that of
William Ramsay, Professor of Humanity, in whose

Class he and his elder brother were duly enrolled.

The University classes in those days consisted
largely of raw Highland lads, sent from the farm
to train as theological students, of all ages from

fourteen to twenty-four, with others intending to
follow law or medicine. The following excerpt by
Dr. H. S. Carslaw from The Book of the Jubilee,
1901, gives a picture of interest respecting young

William Thomson :--
    " It is somewhat difficult to picture the classes of

the time. It is equally surprising to find that at
the end of his first winter's work he carried off two

prizes in the Humanity Class; this before he was
eleven. In the next session we follow him to the

                    QUADRANGLE OK THE OLD GLASGOW COI.LEGE.
The rooms used as Laboratory of Natural Philosophy are in the dark corner on the right.


i UPBRINGING AT GLASGOW 9

classes of Natural History and Greek --we wonder

what the present occupants of these chairs would

say to a stripling under twelve who presented him
self at their lectures -- and his name figures in both

prize-lists. Sympathy is not lacking for the hard-

worked schoolboy of to-day ; but what would the

child of twelve think of the holiday task of trans

lating Lucian's Dialogues of the Gods, with full
parsing of the first three dialogues ! This is the

piece of work for which William Thomson, Glasgow

College, receives a prize in May 1836.  Next

session we find the two brothers together in the

Junior Mathematical Class, of the Junior Division
of which they are first and second prizemen. They

appear again at the head of the list for the Monthly

Voluntary Examinations on the work of the class

and its applications. Proceeding to the Senior

Mathematical Class in 1837-38, they again stand

at the top, nor have they failed to present them

selves for the Voluntary Examinations. William

is not satisfied with this class, but in addition

receives the second prize in the Junior Division of
Prof. Robert Buchanan's Logic Class, having as a

near rival John Caird, Greenock, the name of our

late revered Principal now appearing in the lists."

At the close of the session of 1838-39 William
and James Thomson took the first and second
places as prizemen in Natural Philosophy, and in

that of 1839-40 William gained the class prize in

Astronomy, and was awarded a University medal

for an essay On the Figure of the Earth, the

10                            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                          CHAP.

manuscript1 of which is still extant. In 1840-41

his name appears once more in the prize-lists,
being this time fifth prizeman in the Senior
Humanity Class under Professor Lushington. Lord
Kelvin loved to recur to his student days, and to

his teachers of that time -- Ramsay, Lushington,
Thomas Thomson, Meikleham, and J. P. Nichol.
In 1907, at the annual dinner of the London

"Glasgow University Club," he spoke of the fine

   1 It  is a carefully-written bound            :--volume         of eighty-five  pages,  undated.
         title-page are two quotations
On the

            . . . Mount where science guides ;
         Go, measure earth, weigh air, and state the tides ;
         Instruct the planets in what orbs to run,
         Correct old time, and regulate the sun.

         Principio terram, ne non aequalis ab omni
         Parte foret, magni speciem glomeravit in orbis.

A brief preface states that the writer has consulted Airy's Tracts and his

Encyclopedia Mctropolitana article, and the works of Poisson, Pentecoulant,

Pratt, and Laplace. He claims some originality, but fears that more extended

reading may show              that he has    been anticipated.     The    contents are     grouped
under four heads                            Theory, Disturbance       in  the Moon's       Action,
                              :-- Physical
                                                                   In the last part a demon
Geodetic Measures, and Pendulum Observations.

stration is given of Clairaut's Theorem. The mathematical handling through

out is   Dmsiegacnrevemedlbloe"ursK. .16O, cTt1h. 8e4241m,; an1ou9nse0cr7ip.d"tatedbAefat"ersrGtt.fhifrEteyae-ssetevneronntesaytoeafsreslaa,,teaSrnedpd.aote1nsl3y/;6to6wn"eo;

added
a third

months before his death, Lord Kelvin had returned to the study of his
                                         H. Love, who
bEossyahyo,odwri!tesPr: o"f.   A.    E.  truly astonishing  has kindly examined the text of     the
                              It is                          performance for a boy of sixteen.
                                      a                                                          It

has many affinities with Airy's Tract, but in the arrangement of the matter,
and still more in the general tone, it is quite different from Airy's Tract.

Airy's writing was meant to be a textbook for the use of students ; Thomson

writes like a scientific investigator. Besides this, his work is more complete.

For example, he includes the ellipticity deduced from the constant of pre

cession combined with Laplace's hypothetical law of density in the interior of
the Earth, and he includes the perturbation of the Moon's motion in longitude.

These things are omitted by Airy. Even Pratt in his Treatise omits the
                                                                   I don't wonder that Lord
perturbation of the moon's motion in longitude.

Kelvin took the Essay about with him, because it had everything in it in a

small compass. But the methods which he used in it are not those which he

adopted afterwards in                Thomson     --antdheTauist.e   Evidently he learned two things
about the subject at a               later date                    of the potential function and the

use of the method of harmonic analysis. He had a large share in developing

these more powerful methods, and it seems clear that when he came to the
task of printing an account of the theory he preferred them to the methods
which he had used in his youth."

i  UPBRINGING AT GLASGOW                n

all-round education afforded by his University in

the good old days, and praised its width. " A

boy," he said, " should have learned by the age of

twelve to write his own language with accuracy

and some elegance ; he should have a reading

knowledge of French, should be able to translate

Latin and easy Greek authors, and should have

some acquaintance with German. Having learned

thus the meaning of words, a boy should study

Logic." And then he went off in praise of the
                                        "I
advantages of some knowledge of Greek.

never found that the small amount of Greek I

learned was a hindrance to my acquiring some

knowledge of Natural Philosophy." Assuredly not
in his case. Yet he confessed one day that if he

could only find his old note-book with the notes of

Lushington's lectures on the Greek play in his last
year of study at Glasgow, its pages would show

that his mind was often wandering away to matters

of Natural Philosophy ! He retained a very lively

memory of his early University days, and delighted
to recall them. Well did he remember " the little

tinkling bell in the top of the college tower, calling

college servants and workmen to work at six in

the morning ; the majestic tolling of the great bell

wakening at seven the professors (and students,
too, in the olden times when students lived in the

college) ; then, again, the lively little tinkling bell

calling the professors and students of Moral Philo

sophy and Senior Greek and Junior Latin at
half-past seven to work in their class-rooms.

12  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

     " Woe to the student of Latin who reached the

door ten seconds after the quick little bell's last
stroke. He was shut out by the doorkeeper, un

failingly ruthless, by inexorable order, and had to

wend his way through the darkness to his lodging,

sorrowfully losing the happy hour's reading of Virgil
or Horace or Livy with his comrades, under their
bright young Professor, William Ramsay, and

knowing that he had got an indelible black mark

against his name."

    The then Professor of Natural Philosophy,
William Meikleham, had held the chair since 1803.
Though he can scarcely be accounted a distinguished
man, he yet had a sound knowledge of the older
branches of his science, and certainly succeeded

in arousing in his students an interest in physical

phenomena. He made them read the Mdcanique
analytique of Lagrange and the Mtcanique celeste
of Laplace, a task that would indeed have been

hard but for the excellent mathematical training
of Professor James Thomson. In the session of
1 838-39 Meikleham broke down in health, and for
the remainder of that academic year his lectures
were shared between Professor Thomas Thomson

(Professor of Chemistry) and Professor John Pringle
Nichol (Professor of Astronomy). In the session
of 1839-40 Nichol gave all the Natural Philosophy

lectures after the first three weeks, and young
Wm. Thomson took the Senior Course of Natural

Philosophy under him. His note-book of the
lectures is still preserved. Nichol was a most

i   UPBRINGING AT GLASGOW                                                   13

accomplished man, of quick parts, with a keen eye

for recent advances in science, and a poetical

imagination. He fitted up his newly-built observa
tory with numerous pieces of apparatus of his own
possession,1 particularly optical apparatus. He
showed his students the phenomena of diffraction
and the spectrum of the sun's light. He also pro

cured Daguerreotype apparatus, and in 1839 initiated
the brothers James and William Thomson into the
mystery of taking Daguerreotype photographs. He
taught William to take transits of the sun and stars

with the transit instrument in the old Macfarlane

Observatory. The summer of 1839 was in later
life described by Lord Kelvin as " a white era, an

era of brightness in my memory." Such was the

inspiring influence of the teachers2 under whom he
drank in knowledge. Nichol had recently got hold

of a new book --a pamphlet of some eighty pages
--on Couples, and made his students write Christmas
essays on the Theory of Couples. It was Nichol,

too, who in 1840 brought to the notice of his eager
young student the Thtorie analytique de la c/ialeur,
of Fourier, which was destined to influence his whole

    1 In the summer of 1840 he travelled to Munich on purpose to procure
some new instruments for his observatory. During part of this tour he and
Mrs. Nichol and their son (afterwards Professor John Nichol) were with the
Thomsons at Frankfort, as narrated at the end of this chapter.
    1 The following extract from Lord Kelvin's
in  1904 gives a grateful reference to his early  inaugural  :--ad"drMesys  as Chancellor
                                                  teachers                  predecessor in

the Natural Philosophy chair, Dr. Meikleham, taught his students reverence
for the great French mathematicians Legendre, Lagrange, and Laplace. His
immediate successor, Dr. Nichol, added Fresnel and Fourier to this list of

scientific nobles ; and by his own inspiring enthusiasm for the great French
school of mathematical physics, continually manifested in his experimental
and theoretical teaching of the wave theory of light and of practical astronomy,

   he largely promoted scientific study and thorough appreciation of science in
   the University of Glasgow."

14        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                          CHAP.

career. Lord Kelvin himself gave me the following
account of the matter :--

    " The origin of my devotion to these problems

is that after I had attended in 1839 Nichol's Senior
Natural Philosophy Class, I had become filled with

the utmost admiration for the splendour and poetry

of Fourier. Nichol was not a mathematician, and

did not profess to have really read Fourier, but he

was capable of perceiving his greatness and of
understanding what he was driving at, and of

making us appreciate  a           asked Nichol      I if  he
                         it.

                               I
thought could read Fourier. He replied 'perhaps.'
    I
He thought the book work of most transcendentit

merit.. So on the 1st of May [1840], the very day
when the prizes were given, took Fourier out of
                      ;

                             I
the University Library and in a fortnight               had

mastered --gone right through it."

    Fourier's Theorie analytique de la chaleur had

appeared in Paris in 1822. In this work he set

himself to establish on thorough basis of mathe
                         a

                                      It

                                                is
matical analysis the theory of the movement of heat

in bodies and between bodies.                       characterised

by the same extreme elegance of exposition which

distinguishes the writings of Laplace, Lagrange,

and Poisson in their treatment of other branches of

mathematical physics while its spacious verbiage
          ;

               it is
and refinement of style such as to cause Clerk

Maxwell to pronounce     a great mathematical

poem. At the date of its appearance the applica

tion of the methods of analysis to Mechanics

and Astronomy was comparative novelty and
                      a                             ;

i  UPBRINGING AT GLASGOW  15

certainly no one before Fourier had had the hardi
hood to apply analysis to the movement of heat.
The success with which he built up, by patient
insight, the differential equations for the movement
of heat, in the several cases considered, was

equalled by his success in discovering the processes

for integrating them ; leading him not only to
establish the famous " Fourier Series " for the ex

pression of periodic quantities, but also to formulate
several new integrals of great importance in mathe
matical physics generally. Fourier's memoirs had
attracted but little attention in England, and his
work passed almost unrecognised until the events
now to be narrated.

    William Thomson was already familiar with the
French language. He and his three brothers had
been taken in the summer of 1839 to London to
see the sights of the great city, and then on to Paris,

where they were left for about two months to learn
French, while their father and their elder sisters went

on for a tour round Switzerland and South Germany.

At Paris he frequented the Bibliotheque Royale in

order to read Laplace's Mtcanique celeste, in pre
paration for his University essay on the Figure of
the Earth. But for this training in French he

would scarcely have been able in a fortnight to
go through Fourier's work. It was a part of his
father's plan of educating his family that they should
acquire a mastery of German also. Accordingly he
determined to take his children for a summer re

sidence in Germany--no light undertaking in those

16  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

days, when the facilities for travel were extremely

restricted. For two months the whole family took

lessons in German conversation. On May 21,

1840, the father with his six children started from

Glasgow. The eldest daughter Elizabeth was
almost 22, James 18, William 16, and the youngest
boy Robert only 1 1 years old. They travelled by

steamer to Liverpool, thence by train to London.

On the 25th they went to see the Queen drive to
Buckingham Palace. On the 26th the party visited

the Polytechnic to view the latest wonders, and the

same night left by steamer for Rotterdam. A note

in young Thomson's diary runs :--

     Reached the bar at the mouth of the Maas, near Brill,

at about 4^ o'clock in the morning, where we had to lie
till 10. The vessel rolled greatly from side to side, but
the rolling was intermittent, as every two or three minutes
it calmed down and then rose again with perfect regularity.
This probably arose from two sets of waves of slightly
different lengths coming in in the same direction from two

different sources.

    On the 28th they visited the Hague ; and the
diary adds a visit to the Museum to see a stuffed
mermaid ! Also a visit to a windmill at Delft,

where they criticised the primitive machinery.
Then they took a river steamer to Emmerich, and
thence by Dusseldorf to Bonn, reading Peter Simple
on the deck, conversing with some acquaintances

on painting and animal magnetism, and landing at
Cologne to see the cathedral and purchase some

of J. M. Farina's eau vfritable. They reached

i          UPBRINGING AT GLASGOW     17

Frankfort-on-the-Main on June 16, and put up first
at the Wurtemburgerhof. On June 19 they moved
into a house on the Promenade, near the Eschen-

heimer Thor, which house they furnished. They

remained here until August 2, when they left for

Baden. From there the two brothers James and
William went by themselves for a walking tour,

lasting some days, in the Black Forest. The whole

family returned to Glasgow on September 2. If

this astonishing expedition reveals the unique per
sonality of the elder Thomson, and the thoroughness

of his educational methods with his children, the

fact remains to be told that, so far as young William

Thomson was concerned, its principal object turned

out a failure. In his later life he used to tell with

whimsical glee how it was that he never became a

good German scholar.
     " Going that summer," he said, " to Germany

with my father and my brothers and sisters, I took

Fourier with me. My father took us to Germany,

and insisted that all work should be left behind, so

that the whole of our time should be given to
learning German. We went to Frankfort, where
my father took a house for two months. The

Nichols had lodgings adjacent, and came in to
meals with us nearly every day. Now, just two

days before leaving Glasgow I had got Kelland's

book (Theory of Heat, 1837), and was shocked to

be told that Fourier was mostly wrong. So I put

Fourier into my box, and used in Frankfort to go

down to the cellar surreptitiously every day to read
   VOL. i
                                  c

18  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

a bit of Fourier. When my father discovered it he

was not very severe upon me."
     Kelland, in fact, had been misled by not com

prehending that a Fourier series may be expressed
either in a double series of sine and cosine terms,

or in a single series of either sines or cosines, by
appropriate assignment of epochs to the various
terms of the series. He had, therefore, hastily
concluded that, since many of the expansions of
functions given by Fourier are in series of sines or
cosines alone, they were " nearly all erroneous."
Thomson discovered, while at Frankfort, the cause

of the misunderstanding, and wrote thereupon an
article " On Fourier's Expansions of Functions in

Trigonometrical Series," giving a new demonstration
of the expansion, and pointing out the explanation
of the apparent discrepancy noticed by Kelland.
This article was subsequently published over the

pseudonymous signature "P. Q. R. " in the short

lived Cambridge Mathematical Journal, vol. ii., May

 1841, and is reprinted as the first article in vol. i.

of Lord Kelvin's Mathematical and Physical Papers.
Lord Kelvin gave me, in 1906, the following account
of it :-- " I was filled with indignation at a statement
by Kelland that almost everything in Fourier was
wrong. When I wrote my paper --my first pub
lished original paper -- for the Cambridge Mathe
matical Journal, my father sent it to Gregory.
Gregory had been beaten recently by Kelland in
the competition for the Edinburgh chair of Mathe

matics. Gregory thought the paper rather con

i          UPBRINGING AT GLASGOW  19

troversial, and sent it to Kelland. This was a

graceful act on Gregory's part, that he would not

put it into the Journal without referring it first to
Kelland. Kelland wrote back rather tartly, as if

piqued. Then my father and I went over the paper

and smoothed down a few passages that might have
offended Kelland's feelings. Kelland wrote1 back

that he was charmed with the paper, and was quite

amiable. So then it was printed." As it appeared,
it was dated "Frankfort, July 1840, and Glasgow,

April 1841."
     In the circle of University acquaintances in

Glasgow was one David Thomson, a cousin of the

great Faraday. David Thomson (B.A. 1839), of
Trinity College, Cambridge, took over the duties
of Professor Meikleham's chair from 1842 to 1845,
during the latter's illness. He subsequently held

the chair of Natural Philosophy at Aberdeen. He
wrote the article on " Acoustics " for the eighth
edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica, and died in

1880. By him William Thomson was, as he himself
           " inoculated with Faraday fire." He
expressed1

                     it,
                                                                                                        a
indoctrinated the youthful student into Faraday's
then heterodox notions of electric action in

medium. Hitherto the doctrines taught him re
specting electricity and magnetism had been on the

then accepted lines of Newtonian forces acting at
a distance, with all the weight of Poisson and

Laplace to support the analytical theory. Of the

        The letters which passed, in February and March 1841, between
Gregory, Kelland, and James Thomson, were mostly preserved by him, and
were found amongst Lord Kelvin's correspondence.

20            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                  CHAP.

Boscovichian theory of atoms as centres of force
acting at a distance he had learned from Nichol.
But now David Thomson inculcated the Faraday
conception of electric and magnetic forces acting
along curved lines in the medium, and the further
possibility of the screening of electric forces by

the interposition of a conducting sheet. At first

William Thomson rejected these notions, thinking

them incompatible with first principles, and argued

eagerly against Faraday's views. Ultimately he

was convinced, and ever afterwards retained the

most sincere admiration for Faraday and his work.
    And so with the advent of April 1841 came to

an end William Thomson's sixth and last session as
a student in the University of Glasgow. He left
the University l without even taking a degree !

              APPENDIX TO CHAPTER I.

                             THE VISIT TO FRANKFORT.

    In the Memoir of John Nichol (Professor of English Literature
in Glasgow, 1862 to 1889), son of Professor J. P. Nichol, there
are some autobiographical notes, written in 1861, which throw

an interesting light upon the Thomson family, and, in particular,
                                                    John Nichol was then
upon the episode of the trip to Frankfort.         following passages are

esexvterancteyedar:--s old.  From these notes the

    1 Nevertheless he sat for the degree examinations at Glasgow.  A certi
ficate, still preserved, reads as follows :-- "COLLEGE OF GLASGOW, April 22,
                             Examined and approved for the Degree of A. B.
1839. William Thomson.
by us, Robert Buchanan,      William Fleming, William Ramsay, E. L.
              At that date Thomson had not completed his fifteenth year.
Lushington."
He purposely abstained from applying for the formal conferment of the degree,

in order that he might not be prejudiced in entering as an undergraduate at

Cambridge.

i  UPBRINGING AT GLASGOW                                   21

   The day came when we started for Germany, -- my father, my

...mother, and myself. . . . We went, I think, from Edinburgh to
Glasgow, and then to Liverpool, and then to London.        I have no

memory of our  embarkation.      Light breaks upon one     next at Ostend.
. . . We went  to the Continent                            our friends, the
                                  alone -- we three --but

Thomsons, had arranged to meet us on the way ; they spent some

considerable time with us on the Rhine, so I had better explain who

they were. Had I more leisure and a clearer memory, I think I

could write something about the Old College Court. The dingy old

place has for me some pleasant associations. . . . When we first
lived there, Hill had not begun to send forth his platitudes from the

chair, . . . nor the most illustrious of the Thomsons to make new

discoveries in electricity. . . . Members of that great gens literally

filled one-half of the chairs in the University. I will not venture

to say how many I have known. There was Tommy Thomson the

chemist ; William Thomson of Materia Medica ; Allen Thomson of
Anatomy, brother of the last ; Dr. James Thomson of Mathematics ;
William, his son, etc., etc. Old Dr. James was one of the best of
Irishmen, a good mathematician, an enthusiastic and successful

teacher, the author of several valuable school-books, a friend of my

father's, and himself the father of a large family, the members of

which have been prosperous in the world. They lived near us in the

court, and we made a pretty close acquaintanceship with them all.

Mrs. Thomson had died before her husband came to Glasgow ; but

there were two daughters, both clever, good talkers and sketchers,

one of them very pretty ; and four sons, in their order, James,

William, John, and Robert, a pleasant and happy group now

scattered far and wide. Dr. James came originally from the North
of Ireland, and, to some extent, combined the qualities of the two

races who are in that district fused together. He was laborious and

precise and acute, destitute of the inventive, but largely endowed

with appreciative faculties. Good-hearted, he was shrewdly alive to

his interest without being selfish, and would put himself to some

trouble, and even expense, to assist his friends. He was a stern

disciplinarian, and did not relax his discipline when he applied it to

his children, and yet the aim of his life was their advancement.
He was impressionable, if not impressible, like the most of Irishmen,

and was more tenacious of his impressions than most. He was
uniformly kind to me, and I owe him nothing but gratitude.

    Of the sons I liked James the best. He was crotchety, and apt
to be sulky with those who would not enter into his crotchets ; here,

as far as I know, his faults end. He was steadfast, straightforward,

independent, quiet, unobtrusive, with more Scotch than Irish blood

in his veins, and yet it ran warmly enough for his friends, and at a
later period I had the honour to be one of them. His passion was

engineering ; he was always on the eve of inventing something that

was going to revolutionise trade. He used to show me lots of

models, and often when we were in Arran together he would walk

22             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                    CHAP, i

out to try his boats or his wheels on the streams, as a chemist goes

to make an experiment that will test the worth or worthlessness of

years of toil, or the astronomer goes to look for the star whose place

he has predicted with the help of a million figures. I believe some

of those inventions were excellent, but there was always some

practical obstacle which prevented their bringing to the inventor

either the fame or the fortune they merited.       James was an idealist
in his way.

    John was an assiduous and successful student of medicine, and
died of a fever caught during his attendance on the hospital. . . .

    We stayed some little time at Bonn. We lodged near the verge

of the town, where we met the Thomsons, and the younger boys and

I used to make little paper boats, and let them sail far away over
the roofs of the houses. . . . From Bonn, too, my father, with James
and Willy Thomson, went to walk for three days among the craters
of the district, and came home with their pockets full of specimens,

whi"chIt  James still  preserves  in his cabinet.  " that  we sailed  round  the
           was upon    a tranced   summer night

corner of the Rhine which reveals the Siebengebirge, and came

gliding in to the island of Nonnenwerth. Clear and calm and fair

the memory of that night comes back to me from over all the years.

One by one the peaks appeared, and stood grandly above the quiet

stream, in the grey light which soon faded away beyond their

purpling crests. The moon stood out, a glorious crescent on the

ridge of Rolandseck, and a bright star led the host of heaven over

the brow of Drachenfels. . . .

    We were on our way to Frankfort when this happened, and there

we spent the most considerable part of our time. I remember our

getting settled down somewhere into comfortable lodgings up one or

two stairs, and our meeting the Thomsons again. . . .

    My father went alone to Vienna by Ratisbon and Passau,

returning by Innsbruck and the Tyrol and Munich. My mother
and I stayed three months at Frankfort ; the Thomsons came often

to see us, and we had other varieties enough to prevent us feeling

lonely. . . .

     Frankfort was a pleasant place to live in then, whatever it may
be now. It had its romance -- old houses within, and green glades

without the walls ; and yet it was well furnished with all things
needful. I should be glad to return there and see if the cherries
taste as sweet as ever, if the environs are as luxuriant as when we

went out on an afternoon to see the Prince [Landgraf] of Homburg
drive round his park, or the streets as gay as when there was a rush

of lights at night.

                 CHAPTER II

                                      CAMBRIDGE

ON April 6, 1841, William Thomson, then in his

seventeenth year, was formally entered at St. Peter's
College, Cambridge, as a student of the University.

The Admission Book entry is : --

     1841, April 6th, Gulielmus Thomson, Doctoris Jacobi
Thomson Filius, Scotus, ad mensam pensionarium ad-

mittitur.

He came into residence in October of the same year.
St. Peter's, or Peterhouse, to give it its ancient and
more familiar name, is not one of the great or weal thy

Colleges, but it has always maintained an honourable
tradition for scholarship of the best sort, and for an
intellectual activity that would do credit to a larger

and more richly endowed institution. In the 'forties
it ranked about fifth or sixth in size. Hence the
position of a pensioner of Peterhouse would in no
sense be regarded as inferior to that of one resident
in Trinity, King's, or St. John's. In the Tutor's
Book it is recorded that he was recommended to
the College by his father, who himself accompanied
him to Cambridge to introduce him to personal
friends -- Challis, Gregory, Hopkins, and others.

                                                                    23

24           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                       CHAP.

Probably Professor James Thomson decided on the
choice of Peterhouse for his son because of the fame

of Hopkins, the mathematical coach, for whom he

had a great admiration.

    For some reason Peterhouse had from this

period onwards a distinct following of Scottish
students. Thomson's famous colleague Tait entered

Peterhouse three years after he had left it ; and two
years later, it was to Peterhouse that Clerk Maxwell

came, though he migrated after one year to the

more highly endowed Trinity.
    Of that period the present Master of Peterhouse

has written the following notice in the Cambridge

Review :--

    But Cambridge had a claim of her own upon Lord

Kelvin. She had possessed him during those incom
parable years of life through which a man of genius

ptoasasesfe, wa--s tthhreourgehgioan  golden gate into a region  open  only
                                       of great achievement.

    When he came up to Peterhouse the Tutor of the

College was Henry Wilkinson Cookson, who had taken

his degree in 1832, and afterwards became Master. No

man could have served his College, and I may add

the University, more loyally and more effectively than

Cookson, who knew it both intus et in cute ; but there

could not be much intellectual affinity between him and

Thomson, as his private scientific tastes were mainly

biological.

    On the other hand, Thomson was, as an undergraduate,

brought into immediate contact with Frederick Fuller,

afterwards Professor of Mathematics at Aberdeen, who

graduated only three years before himself, and sub

sequently succeeded Cookson as Tutor. He survives as

one of the oldest members of a College which owes him a

deep debt of gratitude ; and it was a rare pleasure to find

ii                  CAMBRIDGE            25

myself voting on the same side with him not very long
ago. But in the early 'forties an emanation of mathe

matical glory was already proceeding from our ancient
house, where William Hopkins, after graduating as far
back as 1829, had already become one of the most

successful private tutors known to the ancien regime, and

where his distinguished name and unsullied memory are
still justly revered. Tait and Steele, as again every one

knows, headed the Mathematical Tripos in 1852, and
both of them became Fellows in the following year.

     The intimacy of Thomson and Tait, and the joint
production of their great book, therefore, do not belong to

their Cambridge years, though counting among the chief
glories of Peterhouse. Routh's year, 1854, when Clerk
Maxwell was second Wrangler, was another annus mira-

bilis for Peterhouse.

    Canon Grenside, one of Thomson's contem

poraries at Peterhouse, has narrated how he first

met him at the wine- party given to freshmen by
Mr. Cookson the tutor, shortly after the opening
of the October term of 1841. "William Thomson,
a slender, fair-haired youth, sat immediately opposite
me," writes the Canon. " I noticed him particularly

--especially his youthful appearance. Of course no

words could be exchanged across the table in the

august presence of the College Tutor. We soon

became friends, and that friendship lasted to the

end of his distinguished life, though meeting at rare
intervals. He had not been settled in his rooms

for more than three days. . . . Two days after

wards it was currently reported in the College that
                                      "
Thomson  would  be  Senior Wrangler
                                     !

    Thomson had scarcely entered Peterhouse when

his anonymous paper in defence of Fourier's

26          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                           CHAP.

Expansions of Functions in Series appeared in
the Cambridge Mathematical Journal. The secret
soon leaked out ; and it became evident that here

was a student of unusual promise. In November

1841 he had a second article,1 written in reality in the
previous April, giving a new proof of the generality

of Fourier's Solution of the Expansion in Series --

a proof different from that already advanced by

Poisson. This was followed in 1842 by two more

papers in the Cambridge Mathematical Journal,

still signed "P. Q. R.," of a much more advanced

character.

    Thomson's life at Cambridge differed little from

that of the earnest and active undergraduates of his

time, save perhaps in the intensity with which he

threw himself into everything with which he let
himself be occupied. He read, walked, boated, and

even indulged in occasional dances and more

occasional rides. The days during term time at

Peterhouse were filled with varied activities.

Thomson usually began his morning by a rapid

walk or run, before breakfast, around the College

Grove. Every day, almost without intermission,

summer and winter, he used to take a dip in the

waters of the Cam, sometimes making his way to
Byron's Pool for a plunge. Lithe in figure, and wiry
of constitution, he enjoyed other outdoor recreations,

particularly rowing. Athletics had not at that date

    1 Copies of these  two articles  :we"reI  sent  in  the New Year by James
Thomson to Kelland,    who replied            have  to  return you my best thanks
Ifor your kindness in sending me the papers of your son.
                                                          will only add

that the early genius displayed in these and in all his papers promises to rank
your son soon amongst the mathematicians of Europe."

ii  CAMBRIDGE                                       27

swelled .to the overweening proportions of later
time, and occupied a more rational share in the life
and outlook of the University man. How Thomson
distinguished himself in play as well as in work we

shall see.

    Thomson's tutor for the first term was Cookson.
In January 1842 he began to read with Fuller, but
he worked for one term, and through the long
vacation of 1842, without a tutor. After that he
had William Hopkins as his private coach, " an
excellent and sound mathematician and scientific

man," as Thomson described him sixty years after
wards. In the Cambridge of those days, as since,
the career of the student who was reading for the
Mathematical Tripos depended greatly on the

tutor or coach under whom he read. A tutor

who could impart method and enthusiasm to the

men working under him was sure to bring them
forward. And Hopkins, who was also a very

competent geologist, and who left his mark in more
than one department of physics,1 was assuredly
capable of sympathising with the ardours of the

youthful Thomson. He had, moreover, himself
contributed to the investigation of a problem of
particular interest to Thomson, the theory of the
rigidity of the globe of the earth, --an exceptionally

    1 Hopkins had written in 1835 on Aerial Vibrations in Tubes. In the
years 1839 to 1842 he had no fewer than three memoirs in the Philosophical
Transactions of the Royal Society, on the Precession and Nutation of the
Earth in Relation to the Fluidity of its Interior, and on the Thickness of its
Crust. From 1843 to 1861 he wrote much on the theory of Glacier Motion,
and from 1852 to 1860 on Terrestrial Temperatures.  He was President of

the British Association in 1855.

28  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

suitable guide, one would say, to direct the mathe
matical studies of the fervid youth.

     Such letters as a young undergraduate writes to

his family from the University, even if filled with

the trivialities of the hour, throw much light not
only on the life of the time, but on the development
and character of the writer ; and to this the letters

of William Thomson are no exception. Happily a
very large number of these have been preserved, as
also those written to him by his father and his sisters,
and his letters to his widowed aunt, Mrs. Gall, who

at this period was housekeeper for Dr. James
Thomson in the lively family circle at No. 2, the

College, Glasgow.
    On 21st October he tells his sister Elizabeth how

he has been fortunate in getting comfortable rooms

in College--a parlour, a bedroom, and a gyp's room.
(He has to explain afterwards that the name gyp is
derived from yity, a vulture /) Then he has had to

make his own breakfast, succeeding very well,
except that he forgets whether to put in the coffee

after or before the water is boiling, so asks for the

proper directions ! Next he tells of the calls of the
tradespeople, and of the hairdresser who asks him
to contract for getting his " hair dressed at 23. 6d.
a term -- very cheap"; which advantageous and

tempting offer he declines, considering that hitherto

his hairdressing has cost him only 2d. the half-
year. He is surprised at the way the gyp * lays his

     1 This old famulus bore the name of Boning, and, to distinguish him from
other college gyps of the same gens, was always known as "Gentleman
Boning," because he always went about in a high hat, and wore gloves. He

ii CAMBRIDGE 29

table for breakfast and tea, and clears away the

things afterwards.

    To his sister Anna, on 23rd October, he writes

telling of various events : of surplice-day at chapel ;

of his having gone to "take wine " with Cookson --
a solemn occasion ; of King's College Chapel, where

he is struck with the roof as a problem in the equi
librium of structures ; and he wants her to tell him

how much tea he must use to make a cupful.
    On 26th October he writes his father that he

finds himself to have been partially anticipated by
Liouville in one of his papers. He has been told
by Cookson what books to read ; and he has joined
the Union. October 2Qth brings him a letter from
his father narrating his return journey, and advising
him as to personal economy. " You must keep up

a gentlemanly appearance, and live like others --

keeping, however, rather behind than in advance."

He winds up by asking William for a solution of

the problem to find the centre of gravity of a
spherical triangle. William's reply gives an account
of Mr. Cookson's first " lecture " (on Euclid), in
which he laid down the University's ideas of
education as opposed to modern " diffusion -of -
useful-knowledge-society's ideas." He grieves that
in his rooms he has fifteen yards of bookshelves

used in after-years to relate that when he was conducting father and son for
                                                rooms he remarked, '  '
the  bfeirstcotmimiengtotoThcoomllesgoen'"s      to which the father     rYeopulired,son"'s   very young,  sir,
to                                           ;                                               He may be,    but

you'll find he's very well prepared." Mr. J. D. Hamilton Dickson, Fellow
of Peterhouse, to whom Boning recounted this, has also told that when he
was at college the hairdresser Bendall was still alive, though in old age. It
was on his death that Shilleto wrote the poem "Ultimus Tonsorum," published

in the Cambridge Chronicle of June 26, 1875.

30  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

and only half a yard of books ; tells how his friend
Grenside advises him not to join the boat-club
because of the rowdy men in it ; mentions the
canvassing of votes for the President of the Union,
and how he has promised to vote for Hardcastle

because his opponent is a Johnian ; touches on
sundry mathematical problems, but has not yet

found a solution to the one sent him. A day

after, he writes again that he has received Chasles'
book, where he finds another anticipation of his

theorems, but by a different method.
    November 15th finds him writing again to his

father. Money matters are urgent ; he wants to
pay some bills at once so as to secure discounts.
He has been to a second "wine" with Gregory.

Then a message to his sister. "Anna says she

was rather amused at my using the word man so
much in my letters, but the reason is because I am
so much amused myself at the great use made of

it here. It is quite unprecedented to talk of going
to see a friend, or a student, or a person, but the

word used is universally man, and it certainly does

sound rather strange to hear them calling me a
man." " Letter-writing is nearly as fatiguing to me
as mathematics," he adds. And, indeed, he was

throughout his life a slow writer, laboriously penning
a large script in which he loved to imagine each indi

vidual letter to be distinct. His friend Scratchley1
is thinking of migrating to Queens', and he himself
now raises the question whether, as the chances of

              1 Arthur Scratchley, graduated from Queens' College 1845.

n CAMBRIDGE 31

a Fellowship at Peterhouse are limited, he had not

better also think of migrating elsewhere. His letter,
sputtered over with ink-specks, is written -- as a post
script explains --with a quill pen, which he finds to be

used at the examinations, and therefore he " must get

into the habit of being able to write with them." A
few days later he writes to his sister Elizabeth :--

    I adventured myself to-day for the second time in a

funny (or funey or funney), i.e. a boat for one or two
people to row in. It is certainly rather a venture to go

in them, as we can hardly stand upright in them for fear

of upsetting them, they are so very light and narrow. I

can manage it quite well, however ; and, besides, I would

not care for an upset, except for my watch and the dis

grace. In this College, and in all the others, there is a

boat club which has one or more eight-oared racing

boats which go out very frequently to practise the crews

for the races. Our boat goes out every day, and will be at
the head of the river in the next races, now that I have
                    is
                        it                              have not joined

                                                                       ;

                                                      I

                                                                    is
                                                                                     [!]
come here, though was not before.

the club, however, as rowing for the races too hard work

for getting on well with reading and, besides, the men

connected with the club are generally rather an idle set.

    His father glad he did not join the boat club.

William's next letter, of November 21, tells of his

work, reading for both Cookson and Hopkins, and

doing seventy lines of Prometheus Vinctus every

other day.  l       gives him very little trouble. He

               It
has had the honour of call one evening from Archi
bald Smith and D. F. Gregory -- both Fellows --
                    a

                                                     2

                                                        ;
                                                               ;
                                                                         !

                                                                                ;
21     Archibald Smith, of Jordanhill, near Glasgow, of Trinity Senior1
Wrangler, 1836 later a distinguished equity draughtsman of Lincoln's Inn;
author of the Admiralty Manual on the Deviation the Compass died 1872.
                 ;
       Douglas Farquharson Gregory, Trin. Coll.; B.A., 1838; Fellow of
Trinity. 840 author of Examples the Processes of the Calculus died
February 1844.
                    of                                  ;
                                     of

     32  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                      CHAP.

     who had discussed mathematics and even worked
     ...problems in his room. He narrates a festivity :--
         On Tuesday night I went to Hopkins's party.              I

     went in at about eight o'clock, and was nearly among the

     first. A few wrangling-looking men soon began to drop

     in, and a great many freshmen, or raw materials for

     manufacture. Any to whom I spoke said they were

     going to read with Hopkins  if,  or as soon as, he would

     take them. There were no less than three of our fresh

     men present, besides myself, and one of our other men.

     Later in the evening some ladies, and older gentlemen,

     and among them Ansted of Jesus College, one of the
     proctors, came in. Mr. and Mrs. Hopkins and a young

     lady sang some glees, and Mr. Hopkins asked all of us

     whether we performed on any instrument and when he
                                      ;

                                                       a
     heard that we did not, he said he was very glad to hear

     it. After music, conversation, and looking at great

     many beautiful prints, we adjourned into another room

     for supper, which was in very splendid style.

         On 6th December his father wrote to him                  :
     " Recollect my invaluable maxim never to quarrel

     with a man (but to waive the subject) about
     religion or politics," and added much good advice

     about wine-parties and avoidance of danger in
     skating. The reply of 12th December deserves
     summarizing " have gone to as few wine-parties
         I:
     as possibly could, and at any to whichI                      have
'                                     I
                                                            I
    I...gone there has not been the least approach to
excess.     have given no wine-parties, or indeed

     any parties yet, but suppose must return someI

     of the invitations next term." " The separation of

the freshmen of this College into the two classes of

     rowing men (pronounced rouing, and meaning'

men who are fond of rows and rowing parties)
                                      '
                                                               '

ii CAMBRIDGE 33

and ' reading men ' has very soon become distinct.

All my friends are among the latter class, and I am

gradually dropping acquaintance with the former as

much as possible. I find that even to know them

is a very troublesome thing if we want to read, as

they are always going about troubling people in

their rooms." . . . Then he discusses^the migra
tion question : he has consulted Cookson how to
beat Scratchley if Scratchley stays on at Peter-

house ; the difficulty of choice of a college lies
in finding one with lay Fellowships. He has now

finished the "reading" of his first-year subjects,

Euclid, etc. "My anti-short-sight glasses are

getting on very well, and I certainly think I am

..."very much less short-sighted than I should be if
I did not use them."  With regard to boat

ing, you need not be in the least afraid. As I do

not belong to the boat-club, I always row by myself

in a funny (or, as it is called, skulling, for Alex.

Crum's satisfaction), or at least go in a two-oared

boat, with some friend with whom I should other

wise be walking. With regard to rowing in funnies,

I think it a very useful thing, as it gives variety

from mere walking, which alone is not the best

exercise, and we never meet anybody except those

with whom we go to row. Indeed, very few of the

dissipated men row at all, except in the College

boat, as they are always too much occupied, and

the only objection I see to rowing without joining

the club is the expense of going very often. I

mean, however, when the fine weather comes, to

VOL. I                D

34  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                CHAP.

make application to you with regard to how often

I may take a boat." The letter closes with a dis
cussion of some accounts, and of the costs of wines.

    Christmas he spends at Gainscolne Rectory with
Dr. Greenwood, the father of one of his fellow-
collegians. Thence he writes to tell his father of
Gregory's dpings in finding the values of definite
integrals " in a very curious way by the separation
of symbols," and of a party at Challis's where he
had met Cayley, "who is to be Senior Wrangler

this year."

    In an undated letter of this period William
writes :--

     Hopkins has now given me two examinations, and he
says, as the result, that he sees I know the principles very

well, but that though I could probably read the subjects
as well, or better, by myself, I may perhaps be the better

of a tutor for a term or two before I read with him

(which will be next October), to drill me in writing out
a little. He says that if I stay up in the long vacation

(which, he says, will be a great advantage) he will prob
ably be able to direct my reading sufficiently so that I

shall not require a tutor. . . . After the fourth-year men

...go away I am to get other rooms in the old court, whichAll
will be much better than these which I am in.

the rooms in the old court are much cheaper in proportion

to their excellence in the old court than in the new.

    In the New Year of 1842 Dr. James Thomson
writes to William, enclosing two bankers' drafts,

and cross-questioning his son rather severely about

his accounts of expenditure, the items of which do
not tally with the total. He urges the importance

of his acquiring "accurate business habits," and

ii CAMBRIDGE 35

points the moral by recounting the financial straits
of a colleague at Glasgow who had expended money
recklessly on instruments, and was deeply in debt.
William replies on January 15th explaining the
items of the accounts. Bits of Cambridge news
follow. Cookson and Hopkins have decided that

Fuller is to be his tutor for the next term. " All

the great mathematical men here are very much

against the tutoring system. . . ." " You should
get for the library a new French work on the Difl.

Calc. by Moigno, which Gregory says is the best he
has seen, and De Morgan's Difl. Calc. (in sixpenny
Nos. by the Society for the Dif. of Useful Know

ledge), which is very queer, but contains a great
many good ideas." The criticism of De Morgan
at this stage by the undergraduate, then in his

eighteenth year, is curiously suggestive. A day or

two later he writes again to his father asking him
to send him his Essay (on the figure of the Earth ;
see p. 9), also his Fourier, Poisson's Mtcanique,
and Peacock's Examples, " and as many books of a
lighter kind as you choose, as my library is so very
scanty that I shall almost be obliged to buy books
to fill the shelves." Then he tells how he has been
measuring his strength in a preliminary way with
the wranglers of the year. The Senate-house
examinations being just over, he sat down to most of

the papers to see how many questions he --a mere
freshman -- could do. " I found, on comparing with

what some of the men had done who went in, that

I got on tolerably well, especially in some of the

36  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                  CHAP.

problem papers, though of course I missed a great
deal from not being very ' well up ' with many of

the subjects."

    The safe arrival of the books was acknowledged
in a letter of February 6th. He has got into new

rooms. He has been rowing two or three times
with Hemming.1 He has got on well with Fuller,

getting three papers a week from him to work ; on

low subjects so far, but next week to be on Analytic

Geometry of three dimensions. On February 19th
he sends home a long letter, with a surprise. Along

with another man he has bought a boat for rowing,

built of oak, as good as new, for seven pounds, the
price new being twenty - four. The boat was

decorated in blue and gold, and called the Nautilus.

     The boat which we have got is made for only one
person, and so we shall go down by ourselves on alternate
days to row between two o'clock and four. I shall go
down often along with Hemming who has a funny of his
own. He is a very hard -reading and steady man, and
will certainly be a very desirable acquaintance. He is
very fond of rowing, but will not pull in the College boat
on account of the kind of men of which the clubs consist
 usually. For his boat, which he takes by the year, he had
 to pay twelve pounds for this year, which is the first he
has had her, and will have to pay six pounds a year
 afterwards, as long as he keeps her, so you see we have
 got a wonderful bargain. I have been going on reading
 steadily, about eight hours a day, and getting up perfectly
 regularly a little before six o'clock.

    He adds that he thinks he may get a Gisborne

scholarship, worth ^30 a year. His father replied,

    1 George Wirgman Hemming, of St.      John's; Senior   Wrangler  in  1844   ;
Fellow; later Q.C. and Official Referee.    Died in 1905.

ii CAMBRIDGE 37

expressing surprise at not having been consulted
about the purchase of the boat, and saying roundly
that he thinks his son has been taken in over the

"wonderful bargain."

    I think I told you to send me your accounts of
expenditure from time to time. Any explanations,
except those of importance, can stand over till I see you.
Write them on slips of paper on one side, and you can
cut them out as occasion may require. Use all economy

consistent with respectability. Be most circumspect about
your conduct and about what acquaintance you form.
You are young : take care you be not led to what is wrong.

A false step now, or the acquiring of an improper habit or

propensity, might ruin you for life. Frequently look back
on your conduct and thence learn wisdom for the future.
. . . Have you been returning your parties ? Tell me
about anything of the kind. You must contract no debts

except through Mr Cookson.

    On February 25th William writes to explain
further the purchase of which his father had disap
proved. He tells how he has returned his invita

tions by giving two parties, both of which broke up
about seven o'clock. His explanations must have
had weight, for on March 3rd he writes again : " I
was very glad that you do not object to the boat
now, as I had been very uneasy since I received your
first letter." " I am beginning to get very anxious

to see all at home again, and am already looking

forward with pleasure to the time when 1 shall be

able to get away." "Our (Peterhouse) boat is at

the head of the river."

     On February 27th Elizabeth wrote to her brother
that papa (he was always " papa " to his children)

38  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                CHAP.

was reconciled to the purchase of the boat. But on

March 12th William had to write that there were

more accounts to pay. The College examination

was now demanding all his time for preparation.
" I have been thinking on writing a short paper on

some points in electricity for the May number of the

...Mathematical Journal, but I do not know whether
I shall have time till after the littlego.             I bathed

to-day at Byron's Pool, for the first time, along with
Hemming and Gisborne." J

    Dr. James Thomson was, however, not quite
satisfied. He wrote to Cookson to ask whether he

approved of the way his son was conducting himself,

and the reply was reassuring. Accordingly, on

March 27th James Thomson sends his son, without
further inquiries, £10, out of which he may pay for

the boat ; but he hints that Cookson doubts the

propriety of the young undergraduate writing those

advanced contributions to the Cambridge Mathe

matical Journal. Before this letter was received
William had sent his father another batch of College

accounts, which promptly evoked a call for further

explanations as to unexplained items. On March

3Oth William admits in a rather crestfallen way his
failure to account for the discrepancy of a few shil

lings, and explains the principal items of his College

bills. On April 6th the father writes, hoping that

his lecture on economy to his son has not been too

severe, and tells of a visit of Archibald Smith, who

does not agree that William should be discouraged

    1 Francis Gisborne, of Pcterhouse ; B.A. in 1845.

ii CAMBRIDGE 39

from writing in the Journal; also mentioning a
dispute raging in the Senate of the Glasgow Univer

sity, where he, James Thomson, was championing
the abolition of religious tests against the party led
by the Principal and Professor Fleming. On April
1 4th, acknowledging bank-notes from his father,
William writes suggesting certain mathematical
subjects for junior and senior classes at Glasgow.
Archibald Smith's encouragement came, he says,
just when he had taken down from its shelf his
Fourier, and some notes made in Frankfort, which

he now proposes to work up into an original paper.
" The sculling is going on with great vigour, and is
keeping me in excellent preservation. Every one
now says that I am looking much better now than I
did some time ago, and I find that I can read with
much greater vigour than I could when I had no
exercise but walking in the inexpressibly dull coun

try round Cambridge."

    On April 2Oth he writes about his original mathe
matical work for the Journal, for which he will have
time in the summer in the house at Knock Castle

(three miles from Largs), which his father has secured
for the holidays ; and referring to the College exam
inations adds, " of course, at present I have not
much time for such ' dissipation.' " " Our classical
lectures are on the 6th book of the ^ineid (one of
our littlego subjects) which will form the Latin
part of our classical examination."

     On May 6th he writes again that the College

examinations are now nearing, and that he is reading

40  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                        CHAP.

hard in hopes of getting a Gisborne scholarship.
 He has now bought the other half-share of the boat.
 " I always go down along with Hemming and
Stephen1 (who is also one of Hopkins's men, and is
3rd of his year at St. John's). Budd, of Pembroke,
another of Hopkins's men, and probably the only
one of whom Hemming has anything to fear in the

Senate-house, is thinking on joining our fleet in the
long vacation." He asks his father to bring to

Knock Fourier's and Poisson's Theories of Heat,
as he will want to work at them. " You should

endeavour to persuade Sandford to come to Cam
bridge instead of to Oxford. The well-taught, well-

trained, and at the same time clever man is the man

for Cambridge." He was now working very hard
for the College examinations, working a mathe

matical paper each day, and spending the rest of the

time on classics ; rowing, however, from two to four

with " the fleet." He distinguished himself suffi
ciently to earn the Gisborne scholarship. Cookson
sent word to Dr. James Thomson : " Your son has

passed an excellent examination, and has shown
that he possesses talents which will enable him to

obtain the highest honours in the University, if he
goes on as he has begun. I thought it possible that

there might be some slight deficiency as regards his

qualifications for a Cambridge examination, but there
appears to be little or none, and one may anticipate

a very successful termination to his University

career."

    1 James Wilberforce Stephen, of John's, Wrangler in 1844.

ii CAMBRIDGE 41

     James Thomson wrote advising his son how to
travel as cheaply as possible from Cambridge to
Largs ; and on June 3Oth the question of College
expenses is again the subject of severe parental
comment. The total cost of maintenance at College

had been .£230 17:8 since October 1841.
    The summer of 1842 was spent by the united

Thomson family very pleasantly at Knock ; the
event of the season being the engagement of
Elizabeth Thomson to the Rev. David King.1
William found time to complete for the Journal the
two original memoirs which he had in hand.

    The first of these memoirs of 1842, "On the
Linear Motion of Heat," gave the solution in two

different forms of the differential equation which

expresses the linear motion of heat in an infinite

solid, by which equation it is sought to find the tem
perature at some point at any distance, x, from a

given zero-plane at any time t. This paper was a
mathematical development of some intricacy on the
lines of Fourier's work.

    Again and again in later years Lord Kelvin

would return to this paper as containing the germs

of many of his subsequent ideas. In its concluding

passage it contained a speculation as to the inference

to be drawn if negative values are assigned to the
time / ; for obviously the theorems laid down hold

good for negative values of t, as well as for positive

    1 Rev. David King, born 1806 ; minister of Greyfriars Secession (United
Presbyterian) Church in Glasgow; LL.D. of Glasgow, 1840; one of the
founders of the Evangelical Alliance, 1845; lived at Kilcreggan, 1855-60;
minister of the Presbyterian Church, Bayswater, 1860-69, and of Morningside
Church, Edinburgh, 1869-73 ! died in London, 1883.

42  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

values. In general it resulted that the temperature
of any plane except the zero plane will be impossible
for negative values of / ; since the initial distribution
of heat, assumed in the function, is in general not of

such a form as to constitute any stage, except a first
stage, in a possible system of varying temperatures.

In other words, the state represented cannot be the
result of any possible anterior distribution of tem
perature. Lord Kelvin used to declare that it was

this mathematical deduction which convinced him

that there must have been an origin to the natural
order of the cosmos ; that therefore natural causes

could not be deduced backwards through an infinite
time. There must have been a beginning.

   A second part of the investigation on the linear

motion of heat was published in 1843. ^ dealt
with the solution of cases where the source was

periodic in time ; as, for example, the case of the

propagation downwards into the earth of the
periodic changes of temperature produced on the
surface by the diurnal and annual variations of the

heat received from the sun.

    The second memoir, which is dated " Lamlash,
August 1842," has for its title "On the Uniform
Motion of Heat in Homogeneous Solid Bodies,
and its connection with the Mathematical Theory of
Electricity." It was subsequently reprinted (1872),
as Article I. of Lord Kelvin's collected volume of
papers on Electrostatics and Magnetism. In this

memoir the leading idea is a certain analogy that
had struck him when pondering the Faraday

ii CAMBRIDGE 43

problem of curved lines of force. In the flow of

heat through a solid conducting body, surfaces,

called isothermal surfaces, may be drawn through

all points that are at equal temperatures ; and the
stream-lines of the flow of heat as it passes from one
isothermal to another will always intersect these
surfaces normally. Again, if a conducting body be

electrified, the charge of electricity at once dis

tributes itself over the surface with such a distribu

tion that the attraction on a point close to that

surface, if oppositely electrified, will be perpendicular
to the surface. The sole condition of equilibrium

of electricity, distributed over the surface of a body,
is that it shall fulfil this requirement. Consider a

(closed) surface in an infinite solid to be somehow
retained at a constant temperature from within,

there being a steady flow of heat outwards across
the surface. Next consider an electrically conduct

ing body, bounded by a surface of identical shape,

to be exercising forces on electrified points outside
       Then the electrical attraction at any point of
if it.

       it,

                 if
                                                                                             ;
                                                                                    a
surface, in the second case, will be proportional to

the intensity of the flux of heat at similarly-

situated point in the first case and the direction of
the attraction will correspond to that of the flux.
Farther, there follows this remarkable theorem, that

    around a conducting or non-conducting electrified

body of any shape, a surface be conceived to be

described, such that the attraction on points situated

on this surface may be everywhere perpendicular

to  and,  the electricity be removed from the

44  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

original body and distributed in equilibrium over
this surface, its intensity, at any point, will be equal
to the attraction of the original body on that point,
divided by 4 TT, and its attraction on any point with
out it will be equal to the attraction of the original
body on the same point. The possibility of thus
replacing the actual system by an ideal distribution
that should be equivalent to it so far as the pro
duction of forces was concerned, greatly facilitated
the calculation of attractions in certain cases which

previously were not amenable to mathematical treat

ment. The memoir went on to consider the special
case of the uniform motion of heat in an ellipsoid.
In the case of heat, where the isothermal surfaces

are confocal ellipsoids, as Lame had previously
shown, they will meet the lines of flow ortho
gonally ; so also will the lines of electric force in
the corresponding electric case. The development
of this conception, in mathematical form, was

masterly, but the requisite integrations were stated

quite simply ; the theme presenting the appearance
of a piece of physical insight mathematically stated,
rather than that of an analytical investigation having

a physical interpretation. After Thomson's paper
had been some time in the hands of the editor of

the Cambridge Journal, he discovered that he had
been anticipated by M. Chasles, the eminent French

geometrician, in two points, namely, in the ideas that

led to the determination of the attraction of an

ellipsoid, and in an enunciation of certain general
theorems regarding attraction. He, therefore, when

n CAMBRIDGE 45

the paper appeared some months later, prefixed a
reference to M. Chasles' memoirs, and to another
similar memoir by M. Sturm. Still later, Thomson
discovered that the same theorems had been also

stated and proved by Gauss ; and, after all, he found
that these theorems had been discovered and fully
published more than ten years previously by Green,
whose scarce work he never saw till 1845.'

     Here was an undergraduate of eighteen handling
difficult methods of integration readily, and with
mastery, at an age when most mathematical students
are being drilled assiduously in so-called geometrical
 conies and other dull and foolish devices for calculus-
dodging. And not only was he handling with
 mastery the processes of the higher mathematics,
 but he was here attacking and solving problems,
 and laying down general and important theorems in
 physical science, to which three of the finest mathe
 maticians in Europe had already independently been
 led. And yet his methods were not theirs. That
 of Chasles was geometrical rather than analytical,
 while Thomson had arrived at his by discussing
 Faraday's paradox of the curved lines of force at a
 moment when his mind was steeped in Fourier's
 treatment of the flow of heat.

     October 1842 saw William Thomson back at
 Peterhouse to begin, under Hopkins, his higher
 mathematical training, the normal course of which

 should end in the Senate-house examinations in

 January 1845. He writes, on October 1st, that he

                                   1 See p. 1 1 3 for an account of this.

46         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                    CHAP.

has sent to Gregory the paper he was writing at

Knock ; that Hemming and Stephen are both back,

and sculling has begun again. By October 7 he
knows that his paper is accepted for the November

number of the Journal. He has now begun reading
with Hopkins, who is giving them viva-voce ex
aminations. " I can judge very little yet of any of

the other men whom I meet with him, but I hope

they are not extremely formidable." But there are

more College bills to be met. He has, however,

won a mathematics prize of ^5, which he purposes

to spend upon a Knight's Illustrated Shakespeare.

His brother John writes to him, on October 6th,
                                        '
that Anna  has been  at  Thornliebank      also,  that
                                       ;

Margaret Crum and her sisters, Mary Gray and

Jessie, came to Glasgow College yesterday for a

call, and that Margaret was staying over the night.

Then his father writes, asking why he did not buy,

as his prize, Liouville's Journal de Mathematiques,

instead of the Shakespeare. Next Elizabeth writes

that Robert is ill with scarlet fever ; and a fortnight

later, when he is recovering, sends gossip about two

young ladies, whom William will regret to hear are

engaged to be married. On November 14 Anna
writes : " We are all going on much as we did last

winter. Our German studies resumed ; Margaret

Crum being in the class, as formerly, and John and
papa have also joined us."

    1 The Rouken, Thornliebank, near Glasgow, the residence of Walter

Crum, J.P., F.R.S., head of the famous calico-printing firm, and a great

authority on all pertaining to cotton fibre. Walter Crum was a first cousin
of Dr. James Thomson.

ii CAMBRIDGE 47

    On December 7 James Thomson sends his son
a piece of news. Dr. Meikleham, the aged Pro
fessor of Natural Philosophy, is seriously ill, and he
is concerned as to the possibility of a vacancy.
Who would be a suitable person to succeed him?

Professor J. D. Forbes or Mr. Gregory ?

     William returned to Glasgow to be present at
the wedding of his sister Elizabeth to Dr. King on
December 15th. After that the winter seems to
have gone uneventfully, though there are many
letters sent to William from the family. His cousins
the Crums, of Thornliebank, are often mentioned.

An inquiry, of February u, from Alexander Crum,

" How is the cornopiston coming along?" reveals
the fact that Thomson had fallen under the fascina

tion of music, and had begun to practise playing the

cornet. Of which more hereafter. A week later

John writes that " Margaret Crum has been staying

with us."

    William had been fearful when he first went to

read with Hopkins, that he might have a formidable
rival in Fischer,1 another of Hopkins's pupils. But
as time went on William was reassured as to his

own powers, and told his father so. On March
22nd James Thomson wrote his son a letter of
worldly wisdom. " I am glad to hear that Fischer is
not likely to be so formidable. Do not relax, however,
as he or some of your persevering Johnian com
petitors may shoot ahead. I am also glad to find

     1 W. F. L. Fischer, of Pembroke ; Fourth Wrangler, 1845 ! Fellow of
 Clare, 1847 ; afterward Professor of Mathematics at St. Andrews.

48  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                                    CHAP.

you have got acquainted with Walton.1 Your having

the favourable opinion of such people may serve
you much hereafter. You never mention Aytoun 2

or Lushington,8 and their friends are asking me

from time to time whether you say anything of
them. You should, by all means, cultivate Aytoun's

good wishes, as you might thus, as readily as in any

other way, secure the support of a friend of his in

case of a certain event coming round. You should

also pay attention to Lushington, walking with him,

etc., if you can make it answer; and mention both

frequently, if it were only to say they are well, or

any other little matter."

    This letter reveals, for the first time, the exist

ence of a secret between father and son as to a

certain event which might occur. In the precarious
state of Dr. Meikleham the chair of Natural Philo

sophy at Glasgow might fall vacant ; and Dr. James
Thomson had now formed the ambition that his son

might be qualified to succeed to                                                                           As the months
*J 1
                       ;
                                                                             ;
                                                                                ;
                                                                                         ;
                                                           it.
                                                                                                        ;
went on, and Dr. Meikleham rallied, and William

continued to prove his remarkable original powers,

not only in mathematics, but also in physical applica

tions, this ambition became almost an obsession, as

subsequently .appears. Dr. Meikleham was an

esteemed and trusted friend of the elder Thomson,

and his son Edward Meikleham was an intimate

comrade of the younger Thomson.

    Rev. William Walton, of Trinity Eighth Wrangler and Third Senior
Classic, 1836 Fellow of Trinity Hall, 1868 author of Walton's Mechanical

Problems, and other works.

    Roger St. Clair Aytoun,  oTfriTnritiny;ityRAT.h, ird184Ju6niorafteOrpwtaimrdse,                        1845.
    Franklin Lushington, of                                                                                Fellow.

n CAMBRIDGE 49

    Early in 1843 Thomson had begun to keep a
diary of his doings ; whether any earlier part was
written is unknown. That which has been preserved
extends over the Lent and Easter terms till October

1843. If it is ever published, it will be found to

exhibit a striking picture of University life in the

'forties. A very few extracts bearing on Thomson's

own career are here given.

EXTRACTS FROM CAMBRIDGE DIARY (1843)

February 13, 12 P.M. -- Nothing remarkable to-day.

Commenced rising at seven, after my last week's laziness,

and mean to take shower bath to-morrow. Had a scull

to-day with Hemming and Stephen. Though it was a

glorious day, Stephen still grumbled very much about

sculling. (Weighed 8 stones 10 Ibs. in my jersey.) After
hall walked with Barton * on business in town. Had half

an hour's practice on the cornopean, before seven, when I

commenced reading.

   February 14, 1 1^ P.M. -- Had rather a long paper from

Hopkins. After as was snowy day, practised
         4                 I it
the cornopean, partly along with Shedden till hall time.
                  a                  a        3
After hall went to vote at the Union, and after that toa*
                  I
Hemming's rooms, where found Foggo.3 Field cameit,
in afterwards, and we waited till chapel time. After
                                                                         I

got to my rooms practised little on the corn[opean],

and then read     little Paley, and looked over some of

De Morgan's Diffl. Calc., on Geom. of dimns. At                          1
                                                                            1

Barton came over with his knee cut and trousers shattered,

having fallen in taking corner on account of the frost.
                           a

Fitzpatrick came in, and interrupted any conversation we

should have had.

4311    Richard Barton, of Peterhouse B.A. in 1845.
        Thomas Shedden, of Peterhouse B.A. in 1846; died 1906.
        David Foggo, of John's B.A. in 1843.
        Richard William Fitzpatrick, of Peterhouse B.A. in 1841.
VOL.
                           ;
                                         ;

                                            ;
                                                                   ;

      I                                                               E

       SO            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                             CHAP.

           March 5, 2o' I //.25 m. A.M. -- . . Yesterday night got
                                    I                                             1
foul of the orthogonal surface again, and sat tillII                                 2     with

                                                     .                                .', I

       my feet on the fender, but got no satisfaction. To-day after

coming from Hopkins, have got some new ideas, but

       not the ones          wanted. . . . After               1       had worked at

       Hopkins' problems till 11J^, commenced practising and     2, I

       summoned Tom.1 About half-past                                after we had been
       for about half an hour practising " We're                                  Noddin' "
                                                                              a'

and " Logic             Buchan " in the lowest keys we could
                                        the act of playing " Adeste
devise, and when               was  in

       Fideles," at my reading stand, and Tom playing " Logic
           Buchan " at the chimney-piece, gentle tap was heard
       o'                                                   a

       at the door. " Come in," shouted Tom, and in walked
       Mr. Cookson. " Perhaps you are not aware, gentlemen,
       how much noise these horns make," etc. " We are very

sorry," etc.            1843. --This    morning                I       got hold of my
     March 15,

       math, journal, and spent an hour at least in recollections.

I it, I    had far the most associations connected with the winter

       in which attended the Natural Phil., and the summer
           I
                                  I
                                                it
       we were in Germany.              have been thinking that my

       mind was more active then than                          has been ever since,

       and have been wishing most intensely that the 1st of

       May 1840 would return.                             then commenced reading
                   1

                     6,

                             1
                                1

                               £.
                                     a

                                           a

                                                         .

                                            I!
                                              I

                                                    I
       Fourier, and had the prospect of the tour in Germany

       before me. What melancholy change has taken place

       with Dr. Nichol since then
                             --. .      found Gregory reading " Piers
           March

       Plowman," and spent long time with him looking over

           and discussing old words.                        asked him about where

           could see anything on electricity, and we had then
                                                                                     I
       long conversation in which Faraday and Daniell got
                                                                                                a
       abused.     20,  12^. -- .       . On Saturday                         night          got
                               1
            March                 3
                                          .

                                                       I

                                                                           a
       Shedden to mull some of the wine had                                   just received

       from Lynn, and got Greenwood over to help to consume
       it. We remained till o'clock, and had great deal of

                               Thomas Shedden.

ii CAMBRIDGE 51

...interesting conversation on metaphysics, dreams, ghosts,

etc. I was delighted to find that the passage which
(the only one I ever read) disgusted me with Butler's
Analogy had had exactly the same effect with him.

   March 24, 1 1 J. -- To-day 1 went to the Court before I
had time to read at all. I remained for two hours or three
...hours listening to Kelly's speech about a will case.                     If

something else fail, I think I could reconcile myself to the

Bar, though it would be a great shock to my feelings at

present to have to make up my mind to cut Mathematics,

which I am afraid I should have to do if I wished to get
on at the Bar. . . . After hall I received a letter from

papa (containing tin), advising me to see something of

Lushington and Aytoun, and to mention them now and

then in my letters.          I accordingly set out and saw

Aytoun, and asked him to wine to-morrow, and left a

card for Lushington to the same effect.

    March 26, Sund. 1£ A.M. -- . . . My party went off

seedily enough. Littlego and boats kept us barely in

conversation. I read nothing after it except a chapter

of  Paley,  but occupied     mo ymse.--lf w. it. h.  my cornopean.
    March     31,11 h.                               This evening
                          1                                              I  have

been working at Paley and Xenophon, keeping steadily
before my mind the fear of being plucked. I have been

corng. a good deal, to relieve my head from the seediness

concomitant    upon littlego    --subjects.          On  Sunday  night, after
               Monday, 10
    April 24,                  h. . . .

I was left alone, I read Evelina till 2 h. 20 m., when I

finished it (the first novel I have read for two or three

years).   I.--.  .  .  I went  to Challis's              first  lecture  to-day.
     May

He showed us prisms principally, and after lecture I saw

the dark lines well.                                                        has
                                                                            not
    Sunday, May 14, 1843. -- · · · The boat racing

commenced in earnest. On Wednesday we had

much racing, but kept easily our place on acct. of the

Johnians being bumped by Caius. Yesterday the odds
were strongly in favour of Caius bumping us, but we

astonished the University by keeping away. We had a

52  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                        CHAP.

glorious pull for and shall remember for my whole
    I
       it,
                I

                   I
                                        I
life the work of seven minutes last night. My pleasure

at keeping away was beyond anything        have ever felt.

We shall have another hard pull to-morrow, as Caius

meaOncstotboerbu2m3. p--us,haanved  so    must have plenty of sleep.
                                    been  reading Faust every evening

after hall with Blackburn.

    This last entry introduces us to Hugh Black
burn of Killearn, who later became Professor of

Mathematics in Glasgow. Thomson had met him

in his first term, and often he used to repair, after

hall, to Blackburn's rooms in Trinity.     It  was here

that they swung the famous Blackburn's pendulum.

Some time in 1841-42 Blackburn's elder brother
Colin (then in chambers in King's Bench Walk,
Temple, London, afterwards Lord Blackburn), was

asked by Archibald Smith to introduce him to
Thomson. The introduction was effected at an

informal dinner in Colin Blackburn's rooms, to

which Thomson and Hugh Blackburn came up.

Archibald Smith remained firm friend of Thom
             in
son's for life, and influenced his bent towards the
                           a
study of the phenomena of tides.

    On March 24, William writes to his father that

he has been pulling the second Peterhouse boat,

and that they want him to pull in the races next

term. He will not, however, as he would be too

sleepy in the evenings.

    On April James Thomson writes his son that
Dr. Meikleham much recovered, and, though he
    9,

         is

may be called away suddenly, he may survive for
some time. He consults him as to books suitable

ii CAMBRIDGE 53

for algebra teaching at Glasgow.                    Then he adds a

few words of advice :--

      Never forget to take every care in your power regard
ing your health, taking sufficient, but not violent exercise.
In "your walk in life" also, you must take care not only
to do what is right, but to take equal care always to

appear to do so. A certain censor morum et omnium

aliarum rerum * here has of late been talking a good deal
about the vice of the English Universities, and would no
doubt be ready to make a handle of any report or gossip

he might pick up.

    William replies on April 12, sending copies of
papers and suggestions on algebra books. Adds
that he won £6 last term in prizes. On April
20 he sends a solution of the centre of gravity of

spherical triangles, and tells that he has been

awarded the Clothworkers' Exhibition of £6: 155.,

and that- he has been bathing before breakfast with

Hemming.
    The same day the father writes to his son on the

turn which affairs are taking.

                                   GLASGOW COLLEGE, April 20, 1843.

    MY DEAR WILLIAM -- Busy though I am, I cannot

avoid writing to you on this the eve of our last penultimate
Friday. On Monday forenoon Dr. William Thomson -

called on me, the earliest time he could after the funeral
of his daughter. He had been in Edinburgh, where your
friend Gregory's brother-in-law, Alison, had met with
him, and spoken to him about the N. P. Chair here for
Gregory ; and Dr. T. told me that he had that morning
written to Forbes to hear whether he still looked to the

    1 This is a sly reference  to   Dr. William     F"leMmoinragl,    Professor  of Moral
Philosophy, familiarly known   to  his students as
                                                                    Will."

2 Professor of Materia Medica, see p. 21.

54  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

chair, as he told him that if he did not the electors ought

to be aware, so that they might look out for other candi
dates, or something to that effect. I felt that in these

circumstances I ought to mention to him my views
regarding you. In doing this I asked him whether Dr.
Nichol had ever conversed with him about the chair, and

finding that he had not I told him about Dr. N's. views
regarding you. He was naturally struck with the idea
of your youth, etc. ; but he received the proposition as
favourably as could be expected. He asked about your

experimental acquirements, particularly in Chemistry ; and
he mentioned Forbes as being in this respect one of the
first men of the day, and as being of " European reputa
tion." He seemed also to wish Gregory to be found to

be a good experimentalist, as well as what he is acknow

ledged to be, a good mathematician, and he said that a

mere mathematician would not be able to keep up the
class. In the course of the evening I sent him a note, the
first copy of the main part of which I enclose [see below].
I also wrote to Dr. N., requesting him, as the matter was
thus opened, to call as soon as he could on Dr. T., and to
state his opinion regarding you. This Dr. N. did not fail

to do the next day, and he called on me after the inter

view. He told me Dr. T. received his communications

very favourably, and said that, were it only to prevent

objections, you ought to practise a good deal in perform
ing experiments. I saw Dr. T. the next day (yesterday),
when he spoke in a very friendly manner. . . .

     Now I wish you to consider this subject seriously.

Consider whether you can or should get any introduction
to your professor of Chemistry, or whether you ought to
be at the expense of some apparatus for experimenting

in your rooms at your times of recreation. Dr. W. T.
justly remarked, that while he had no doubt of your being
able to lay before the electors here ample proofs of your

being an accomplished analyst in mathematical and

physical science, yet it would operate much against you,

especially if Forbes were on the field, should you not
be able to give evidence of your acquaintance with

ii CAMBRIDGE 55

the manipulations, to a certain extent, of experimental

philosophy.

     Could you get a proper introduction to Cumming,
you might tell him you wished to practise in some small
degree in performing experiments (keeping, of course, your
main object concealed from him and all others) ; and

he, if you could get no means in his laboratory, would

probably direct you regarding some simple apparatus
and some suitable books ; and a certificate from him
or any such person on this subject might be of great

consequence.

    Turn the whole matter carefully in your mind, and

write to me soon about it. Dr. W. T. would, I know, be

glad to do a kindness to me or to any of my family when

he could do so with propriety, and I feel it to be kind in

him to offer such suggestions. At the same time, as I

have told him, neither you nor I could think of carrying

the matter, were it in our power, unless it were likely to

be  for the  good of  the establishment  and of the    public.
    I shall  shortly  answer your last                 am, your
                                         letter. -- I

affectionate father,  JAMES THOMSON.

    The letter sent by James Thomson to Dr. William
Thomson is as follows :--

                                                 COLLEGE, April 17, 1843.

    MY DEAR SIR -- I beg you to regard a part of our

conversation to-day (about the part which I mean you
cannot mistake) as strictly confidential. When you adverted
to the subject, I felt it to be only candid, in the terms on
which you and I are, to say what I did.

    Having said so much, I only ask, that in a quiet and
prudent way you will get, as occasion may offer, from

persons more disinterested than myself, information regard
ing the character, the qualifications, and the promise of the
person about whom I naturally feel a deep interest. On
some convenient occasion I shall show you some private
communications regarding him.

56  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                            CHAP.

    On April 24 William replies to his father :--

    I feel very strongly what you say about the propriety

of my endeavouring to get some practical experimental
knowledge as soon as possible. I am, however, afraid

that almost anything I could do in my rooms here could

not be much more than trifling. I shall, however, look at

some apparatus as soon as possible (for the polarization of
light, as there are many experiments in it which I might

perhaps repeat with advantage, and without losing much

time. I must, however, as long as I am here rely prin

cipally upon reading for getting experimental knowledge.

I have of late, whenever I have had time to spare, been

reading some of Lame's Cours de Physique, which is an

entirely experimental work. . . .

    I must principally, however, depend upon getting some

experimental practice in Glasgow. I should be delighted
to have access to the laboratory, and I am sure I could

improve myself very much. If there was any immediate

haste, I might perhaps cut Hopkins for the long vacation

and spend my time in Glasgow, but still I must not forget

my principal object in being here. . . .

    As soon as possible I shall speak to him [Gregory]

about some papers for the       May   No.  of   the Math. Journ.
As Mr. Cookson, however,             been   "  hoping I do not
                                has

now lose any time with the Math. Jour." I must endeavour
not to attract his attention. All my papers as yet have

been on physical subjects. I am sorry I cannot get some
copies of my paper in the 1 4th No., as it contains demon
strations of some propositions, deduced entirely from
physical considerations, which I could not prove analytically

till after two or three years.

    On May 5 William writes to his father, then
expected shortly to visit Cambridge :--

    At the beginning of this week we commenced reading

with Hopkins for the term. . . . The first morning I
went, I was agreeably surprised by his telling me that,
if I improved a little in writing out my papers more

ii CAMBRIDGE 57

explicitly, I should be sure of being Senior Wrangler.
I had been beginning for a long time to think that he

considered Fischer to [be] better than me, and so you
may imagine that I was very much delighted with what
he said. As he only said it to myself, however, I have
not told anybody except you, and I think it should not
be told to any one else.

    On May 4 James Thomson sent his son two
letters :--

                                           GLASGOW COLLEGE, May 4, 1843.

    MY DEAR WILLIAM -- I send you the remaining half

notes for £20, of which I have every confidence you will

make the best use. Your bookseller's bill seems large.

Purchase no books you can avoid. You can have the use
                            tohewnim--pyoortuanotugohbtjectto--pothsetpofonremait
of my books ; and as to
tion of a library of your

for the present.

You will be glad to hear that I have succeeded in

carrying the election of Sir Thomas Brisbane as Dean of

Faculties. . . . We carried the election by only a single

vote ; but we could even have spared that one. . . .

Dr. Meikleham was brought out, and I am happy to say

was so well as to be bandying jokes, and he seemed to be

more himself ftacn I have seen him for a long time.

   ifIn the present state of matters our party, we agree

among ourselves, and if we can carry the Rector and Dean

with us, is exactly equal to the other. We have the

advantage, however, that the Principal being chairman
has no vote at an election except in case of an equality ;

and in case of a certain chair becoming vacant, a vote

would thus be lost to the other party. What you have

to do, therefore, is to make character general and scientific

so as to  justify the Lord  Rector, the Dean, and the other
electors  who usually act
                            with me, in supporting you --a

matter of difficulty on account of your youth.

I have told Dr. W. Thomson what you say about such

experiments as you could perform in your rooms being

only a kind of trifling. He says you are wrong, as the

58  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN               CHAP.

bringing of your liand into practice, at your time of life, is
of great importance, were it only in the management of
vials, and in other similar things of apparently an equally
unimportant kind ; and Dr. Nichol is of the same opinion.
In fact, your being able to get some certificates as to your

having attended to such matters would help in neutralising,

or at least meeting the objections sure to be brought
forward by certain persons here, and what is of great
consequence, would tend to secure the support of electors

who would be friendly to you and me, but who might be

afraid to support you on account of your youth. For

your age your character here stands, I believe, excellently.

You must strive to support it and to add to it Take

care to give a certain gentleman here (who, as to private
affairs, is more nearly omniscient than any one I have

known) no handle against you. Avoid boating parties of
in any degree of a disorderly character, or anything of a
similar nature ; as scarcely anything of the kind could take
place, even at Cambridge, without his hearing of it.

     I have more to write, but as I fear it will be too late

for post, I must close, and am your affectionate father,

                                                       JAMES THOMSON.

    The second letter related to the possibility of

Professor J. D. Forbes becoming a candidate for the

professorship. Forbes was a warm friend of the

Thomsons, and his friendship was prized by William

Thomson till his death in 1868.                         to

    In reference to this William writes :--
   May 8. -- I take the first opportunity of returning

you Prof. Forbes's letters, with which I have been very

much pleased. As far as I can judge, I think it is pretty

clear that he is very anxious for the situation, and, think

...ing himself sure of                wishes to make his own terms before

he accepts it.
    It

                                 it,
         was in this term that Thomson joined the
crew of the Peterhouse boat in the College races.

ii  CAMBRIDGE  59

We have seen that a year before he had taken to

"sculling," and his earlier letters speak of men who
had joined the group dubbed by their comrades
" the Fleet." This was a coterie of five persons :
Hemming of St. John's, who was Senior Wrangler
in 1844, and who subsequently became a leading

Chancery barrister; Stephen of St. John's, a Wrangler
in 1844; Field1 of St. John's; Gutch of Sidney
Sussex, a Wrangler in 1 844 ; and Thomson of Peter-
house. The " Fleet " was so styled because every
day, fine or wet -- unless very tempestuous, --at two
o'clock, when other reading men usually went out
for a walk, they five went out, as regularly as the
clock, rowing in five boats.

    Chatting of the " Fleet," Lord Kelvin gave me
the following account of his achievements as a
rowing man. "You know I won the Colquhoun
silver sculls ? Colquhoun was a Scotchman of
Loch Lomond Side who gave a prize for Cambridge
men for rowing. For the first years the race was

rowed on the Thames, then afterwards was trans

ferred to Cambridge. The first race at Cambridge
was in November 1843. I never thought of going

in for it.
     " I had previously taken one term as oar in our

Peterhouse boat, but had found it too exciting. All

one's thoughts ran on the idea that whatever hap

pened Peterhouse should not be bumped by Caius.

In my first year Peterhouse was head of the river,

    1 Rev. Thomas Field, who took the Classical Tripos in 1844 ; for many
years Fellow and Tutor of St. John's.

60  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                         CHAP.

and we were all very proud of it. It was in the last
term of my second year that I rowed for Peter-
house. Two or three of the men in the crew were
leaving ; we had to have two or three new hands.

I had rowed by myself in my first year, so they

wanted me, though a light-weight, in the eight-oar.
There were three new men in the Lent term, of

whom I was one. It was a foregone conclusion at

the first race (there were six races, one every other

day for a fortnight) that the first Trinity boat would

bump Peterhouse, and so it happened : the first

Trinity did bump. But what was feared was that
Caius would bump us. Caius had gained ground

in that first race, and it was desperately debated

whether Caius would be able to bump. I pulled in

number seven place in the first race, but, being

found too light, was shifted to number one place for

the other five races. I sculled quietly in the inter
vening days ; but could do no reading. We had as
cox an Irishman, Blake1; and Cobbold, the ' Uni

versity steam engine,' was captain of the Peter-
house crew. He was afterwards an archdeacon
and missionary in China. He and Blake arranged
a plan : we were not to row ourselves out, but to
row quite easily till Blake gave us a signal, and
then we were to put out our strength. We rowed
easy, just to keep a few inches ahead of the Caius
 boat, for about three-quarters of the course, till we
got to ' the Willows ' ; then we laid out. We won

    1 William Gage Blake, who graduated at Peterhouse in 1844.  He entered
as pensioner April 27, 1840.

ii               CAMBRIDGE  61

all the rest of the races, though the betting at first

was ten to one that Caius would bump. At the last

race, and for the previous two days, the weather was

bad. All the colleges wanted to give up, except

Caius, and Caius would not. So twenty-seven boats

went out in a storm of wind and rain. Caius never

got near the Peterhouse boat. During those three

weeks of the races nothing occurring on the whole

earth seemed of the slightest importance : we could
talk and think of nothing else. It was three weeks

clean cut out of my time for working at Cambridge ;

so I determined to do no more rowing.

     " But six months afterwards I won the silver

sculls. I had no intention, but simply rowed for

exercise every day, as I found it better exercise in

the time than walking. Three days before the

sculls, Beresford of Peterhouse --he was uncle of
Lord Charles Beresford, the admiral -- met me and

said : ' Now, old fellow, you go and rub your arms

with opodeldoc, and go in for the sculls, and you'll

win  them     '  I had been rowing in my own boat -- a
           !

boat I had bought in my freshman's year, and which

was then quite antiquated. I said I had not a
boat fit to row in. Beresford said : ' Well, I have

got Hemming's boat, and if I get bumped you shall
have it.' It was so. I went down in the inter

vening days and tried it ; shifted the thole-pins and

got used to it--you know the boats in those days
were rough things, without the modern appliances --
and so felt my way about in the boat. As I had

thus got used to it I bumped my men in each race.

62  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                   CHAP.

The last race was a time race, going to the man

who came in first at the winning-post, and I passed
my rival about half-way up the course. The eight-

oar race was at the end of my second year --the
sculls half a year after." An eye-witness of the race,

afterwards head-master of a large English school,

has narrated that Thomson nearly fainted after

reaching the winning-post, but soon rallied, amid

the congratulations of his friends.

    Dr. James Thomson visited Cambridge in May,
on his way to London, whence, on 23rd, he
wrote :--

    With my trip to Cambridge I have been much grati

fied. I am glad to say that what I saw and heard of

you was very satisfactory. Your success in your studies,

--andchairnactmera--kinhgas  the most valuable of all     acquisitions
                             afforded me great pleasure.  . . . What

ever time or times you write, tell me about your races.

You see, that though I consider it necessary you should

give them up for the future, yet I feel an interest in them

so far as you are concerned.

    In June William went to stay at Horncastle
with his friend J. B. Smith.1 His father writes to
him from Southannan, the house near Largs, which
he has taken for the summer, but is called away to
London in July by illness of the youngest boy
Robert. Anna writes meantime to William that

she is expecting Margaret Crum to stay a week
with her at Southannan. " I am soon to lose her

    1 John Bainbridge Smith, of St. John's ; Senior Optime in 1844 (son of
John Bainbridge Smith, D.D., Head-Master of Horncastle Grammar School) ;
later Professor of Mathematics at King's College, Nova Scotia, till 1855 ;
died at Tunbridge Wells, 1904.

u                CAMBRIDGE                 63

altogether now, as she goes to school to London in

the end of this month, and she will be there two

years." In August Professor James Thomson, still
in London, writes to his son : " Dr. Meikleham has
had another attack -- a very bad one. He has

                 and pretty well. In all human
1weathered

                     a it,probability he will not survive another."
                                 is
                                     isThomson read with Hopkins in the long, but

                                                                                          :took a month working in the chemical laboratory at

                                                       I

                                                                      I
                                                                   by

                                                                                                                                                                ;
Glasgow, and another month at Southannan with

the family, and returned to Cambridge on October

 3th. His father wrote him --
    October 18, 1843. -- "You were right about the

propriety of my writing confidentially to Mr. Cook-

son. His reply   very kind, and do not doubt

his sincerity in the slightest degree.     am glad you

have told him decidedly about your determination

not to pull at races. If he have any innocent

humours or peculiarities, you ought        all means

to study them, and to gain not merely his approba

tion but his friendship." A week later he writes

   again that he has seen Dr. Meikleham, who appears,

   except for    slight increase of deafness, as he was
   last winter.  " These matters are all favourable to

   you. Think, therefore, of every fair, honourable,

   and practicable way of preparing for the contest

   and when you hear of the bad health of others, use

   every precaution in your power regarding your own.

   Try to become known to persons of name and in
   fluence -- Liouville, for instance, etc., etc."

   With November came the distractions of the

64  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                  CHAP.

Queen's visit to Cambridge.     Thomson writes

home criticising the Latin speech of the Prince

Consort. He has begun reading Optics with

Hopkins. A merry party of men have been

trying mesmerism in Greenwood's rooms. " Hem

ming operated upon Gisborne, and Greenwood on

a freshman, a friend of his, and both were perfectly

successful in driving the patient into the most

exquisite hysterics."

    At the middle of November he sends Anna a

letter telling how Hopkins had charged him full

fees for the long vacation, and how their elder

brother James was now visiting  him.     His own
news relates to the Colquhoun   sculls.    " I am

practising now every day for a great sculling race
which takes place on Tuesday. As there are

fourteen candidates the decision will not take place
till after two or three days' pulling. The winner

will get a cup of about fifteen guineas' value, as well

as the honour of holding a pair of silver sculls in his
hands for a year. I do not, however, aspire to such

an honour, and I shall be very well satisfied if I

come in second or third.

    " Blackburn and I went on very regularly with

Faust till James came, but since that time we have
been rather interrupted. I have very seldom time

now to take out my cornopean, but after the sculling

is over, I mean to miss going down the river one

day at least in the week, and to have some practice

on the cornopean."

Anna's reply lets him into the secret that she has

ii CAMBRIDGE 65

had a proposal, from a Belfast friend (Mr. William
Bottomley) ; but she has a message to deliver.

    " Papa bids me enclose a few lines . . . telling

you that he is a good deal annoyed to hear of your

joining in the boat races you mention in your letter

to me ; on different accounts he would much rather

you would not enter into any such things in future ;

it has a little of the same spirit as gambling, he

thinks, and also you will be very likely to get so

much excited by the racing as to injure your health

instead of improving  which you know was the
                      it,

                                                                                               :

                                                                    I
cause for which papa allowed you to get the boat."

To William's answer Anna's further reply was "

got your letter to-day containing all your reasons

for having joined the boat races, which has one
good effect at least-- that of convincing us all that

you are a most excellent logician. . . However,
                                 .
though      am not quite sure yet that       entirely
          aI                           is I
approve of the thing, my sisterly vanity too greatI

for me not most heartily to wish you success in all

that you undertake, even boat racing, and shall
                                             if it I
certainly be delighted to learn that you have carried
                                                        is
the prize.        suppose by this time the contest

over, and from what you say, .I  should think very
likely that you have won. . .    Your silver cup will

be quite handsome ornament to your room you

get it." Her next letter full of the motion foris

petitioning Parliament for the abolition of tests.

The motion was carried in the Glasgow Senatus by
                      " What would your Cambridge
1     votes to    7.
   1

                                 the Scottish
friends say to all the movement  in
    VOL.                                          F
        I

66         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Universities? I am sure they must think it very
radical, and if they heard of papa being such a

leader, you would be expelled from the college for
being a Chartist, so I suppose the less you say

about it the better, only do not let yourself become

imbued with Toryism." On November 2Oth she

sends him congratulations on having won all his

races and carried off the silver sculls. On Decem

ber 5th Elizabeth writes to William announcing
definitely Anna's engagement ; and on the 9th he
sends her congratulations, and mentions that he will
leave for Glasgow on the 15th. He stayed on
into January, returning to Cambridge via London in

order to see his brother James, then training as an

engineer in the Isle of Dogs, visiting also his cousin
Margaret Crum at her school ; of which visits he
writes to Anna, telling her also that Hugh Black

burn has given him a copy of Goethe's works.

Anna is glad to hear of his safe return to Cam

bridge. "The delightful company of Faust and

...Punch would have made even a far longer journey
pleasant.  I am glad you saw Margaret Crum.

Does she not look quite well that you say you hope

she is not working too hard ? Papa has been

reading Moigno with great energy." "Are you

going to become a great student of Goethe now
that you have got his works ? " February runs on,

and Anna's wedding is fixed. Their brother James
writes to tell him how sorry he is that William will

miss the marriage. Gregory is dead ; and advice
is wanted from William about two Glasgow students,

 n CAMBRIDGE 67

 Porter and Traill, who think of coming up to Cam
bridge. In reply William writes : " I think it is no

possible advantage to a man to have the pleasure of
novelty done away with before he comes up in
October along with the others of his year. As far as
regards reading, I think three years of Cambridge
drilling is quite enough for anybody." Accounts of
Anna's wedding are sent him by Aunt Gall, by John,
and by James, who is just returning to London, and
says that Mrs. Crum has given him a parcel to take
to Margaret, whom he will see on Friday. William

writes to his father saying he wants more money,

and adds : " If you have any occasion to write to

Cookson, thank him for all his kindness and atten

tion." He is now revising first and second year
subjects in readiness for the Senate-house. Hem
ming wants him to take a trip to Ireland to see
Killarney ; but papa puts a veto on the suggestion
on the score of expense.

     In April William ran down to spend a week-end
with his brother James at Millwall, and sends his
father a history of his doings. To-morrow being
Good Friday, he will ride with W. Ker on an
omnibus to Richmond. He has been with Anna
and her husband to hear William Tell at Covent
Garden, and to Exeter Hall to hear the Messiah.

He had been with Archibald Smith to call on
Colonel Sabine (afterwards Sir Edward Sabine,
P.R.S.), and is invited to dine with them. Archi

bald Smith is getting on as a barrister, and this
fact revives the old idea that William may also turn

68            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN        CHAP.

to the Chancery bar. " When I said that I might

not be able to get anything else to do, he (A. Smith)
answered that if Dr. Meikleham would live a little

longer I might be appointed his successor. We

then had a good deal of conversation about the

Natural Philosophy class, and on scientific subjects

in general, with which Smith seems still to be very

much engrossed, even though almost all his time is

occupied with business." Aunt Gall writes that

papa is particularly pleased that William has made

acquaintance with Colonel Sabine. Then William

Iwrites home that he wants O'Brien's Calculus, and
Woodhouse's       soperimetrical Problems, and De

Morgan, and sends papa some problems about

tangent circles.

    On April 20 Dr. James Thomson sends William
some more money, and writes :--

    Keep the matter in mind, therefore, and think on

every way in which you might be able to get efficient

testimonials. . . . Do not relax in your preparation for

your degree.      I am always afraid some unknown or

little heard of opponent may arise. Recollect, too, that

you might be thrown back by illness, and that you ought

therefore to be in advance with your preparation. Above

all, however, take care of your health.

    To this William replies on 22nd : " I am very

sorry to hear about Dr. Meikleham's precarious

state. I have now got so near to the end of my

Cambridge course that even on my own account I

should be very sorry not to get completing it. For

the project we have, it is certainly very much to be

wished that he should live till after the commence

ii CAMBRIDGE 69

ment of next session." William has been attending
Challis's lectures on Practical Astronomy, and will
follow these by an experimental course on Natural

Philosophy.
    This is the appropriate place to mention the part

which Thomson took in the foundation of the Cam
bridge Musical Society, which originated in an

informal private amateur concert at Peterhouse.
Shortly afterwards the undergraduates of Peterhouse
held a supper, winding up with certain hilarious
proceedings on the College roof, which nearly
wrecked the enterprise. On the next occasion, when

the concert was to be given in the Red Lion Hotel
for want of an adequate room in College, the Master

refused permission unless the Peterhouse Society
would call itself the University Musical Society ;
and, as the Cambridge Chronicle records, the concert
was given to a large audience, consisting almost
entirely of gownsmen, on December 8th, 1843.
The band of eleven instrumentalists performed

Haydn's First Symphony, the overture to Masan-
iello, the overture to Semiramide, the Royal Irish

Quadrilles, and the Elisabethen Waltzes of Strauss

-- Thomson playing the French horn. But the first

official concert given by the Cambridge University
Musical Society, as such, was on May 2nd, 1844,
with the following programme :-- Haydn's Surprise
Symphony, the overture to Mozart's Nozze di Figaro,
the overture to Auber's Les Diamants de la Cou-
ronne, two glees, a violin solo of De Beriot, the

Aurora Waltzes, the Troubadour Quadrilles, and in

70        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                    CHAP.

addition a comic song, The Nice Young Man, sung
by Dykes, with an encore, Berlin Wool, The

Society prospered, and received at last official

recognition from the University authorities.
    In 1888, for the occasion of the celebration at

Cambridge of Dr. Joachim's jubilee in March 1889>
Lord Kelvin wrote to Professor (now Sir Charles)
Villiers Stanford, the following account of the rise

oftheC.U.M.S.

    Sir WILLIAM THOMSON to Professor C. VILLIERS

                                     STANFORD

                                         December 20, 1888.

    DEAR MR. STANFORD -- I am sorry that I have been

prevented by incessant occupations from sooner answering

your letter of the 26th November. I should like exceed

ingly to be present if possible on the 1 4th of next March
at your celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of Joachim's
entry to public life, but my University duties keep me
very closely bound here at that time and I fear I may not

be able.

     The origin of the University Musical Society in 1843
is to me an always happy recollection. The real founder

of the society was G. E. Smith, who entered Peterhouse as

a freshman along    with   mdeiedinqu1it8e41yo. ungH--e   was    greatly
devoted to music,  but he                                before   taking

his degree, I believe. William Blow * was our strongest

man, being a really first-rate violin player. He died a

few years ago. Alfred Pollock (whose two or three pub
lished songs you probably know) came up a few years
later, and helped the Society greatly as hautboy player

and secretary. He was, I believe, a really first-rate haut

boy player, and for many years after he went to London

to become a solicitor used to play frequently by particular

    1 Rev. William Blow, of Peterhouse;  B.A., 1845; Rector of Layler
Breton, Kelvedon, Essex ; died 1886.

n CAMBRIDGE 71

request in the Crystal Palace and other bands. He was

son of Sir D. Pollock, Chief Justice of Bombay. C. M.
Ingleby helped us as tenor singer, in which he was really

good. He too was a solicitor, and was the author of

several books on philosophical subjects. He died three

    I

                                             is,
                                           I

                                                        I

                                                                                      a

                                                                                  I
years ago. John Dykes      believe, still alive, clergy

man, am not exactly sure where. You know his name

well, of course, as author of some beautiful hymns, and,

daresay, other compositions. He was, think, our first

conductor after we left Peterhouse and became the Univer

sity Musical Society.

    Coombe1 and Cridge,2 both sizars of Peterhouse, played

the tenor and violoncello, and were very good musicians.

Both became clergymen, but do not know whether they

are still living. A clergy list would tell, and am sure
    I
              8
                   I
                               (a
                                                  I
they would both be greatly pleased to be asked to join your

celebration. We use to have delightful quartette evenings

in  the rooms of Sutton of Jesus            brother of the present

Sir Richard Sutton, believe). He was very mediaeval in
his tastes, approving of nothing more modern than

Gregorian music. But we had delightful Mozart, Handel,

Beethoven, Weber, and Mendelssohn often in his rooms.

He had an organ in his rooms which had belonged,
    I

                             is

                                 I

                                                  is

                                                              Ia I
believe, to Handel. That   all can recollect of these

happy times so far as the C.U.M.S. concerned. The

practisings and the concerts of the C.U.M.S. were

great pleasure, believe, to all who took part in them.

    Wishing you a happy Christmas and New Year,

remain, yours very truly,         WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Several reminiscences of this time and of the
musical set which Thomson joined are to be found

   the memoirs of the late Doctor Dykes,4 who was
in

    43 1 1

         J.

                              of

                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                                    ;
    Rev. Chas. Geo. Coombe, of Peterhouse; B.A. in 1846, and Fellow.

Died about 1899.

      Rev. Edward Cridge, of Peterhouse B.A. in 1848 now Bishop of the
Reformed Episcopal Church in Victoria, British Columbia.

       Later Sir John Sutton, Baronet.      M.A.,  Mus.                                                                Doc., edited by
      Life and Letters John Bacchus Dyhes,
the Rev. T. Fowler, London, 1897.

72           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                      CHAP.

a contemporary, having entered St. Catherine's

College in October 1843.

    In 1844 Dykes wrote home :--

    I had a deputation almost as soon as I got up, to ask

me to take the presidency of the University Musical

Society, now vacant by the departure of Blow. I asked

for time to think about and then sent and declined                    :
       ?)
                                                                         it,
           aI
              It

                                           it,
                                                                a

                                                    I
in consequence of the reading, etc. (Was not this good
of me
             am very glad, however, that did, for we have

prevailed on that splendid fellow Thomson, of Peterhouse,

to take.it.  will be no end of feather in our caps to

have such man as our representative in the University.

    In April 1844 Dykes wrote to his sister Lucy --

       am bringing home a. friend who plays the cornet in
    I           is
                   a
                            is l
our band and rejoices in the very «»common name of

Thomson. He     great friend of mine, and very nice
                                                                   a

fellow indeed, and what more, most gentlemanly man.
                                  a

                                                     :
    The biographer of Dykes adds -- " The friend

came, and delighted his hosts with his simple, good-

natured kindliness. They have lively recollection
                                  a

of how he made flying- machine with umbrella
                a

whalebones, persuaded an egg to stand alone, and

performed wonderful experiments, besides joining                      in

the family concerts."

    The following letter, addressed by Thomson to

the sister of Dykes, preserves some interesting

reminiscences.

1                 Lord KELVIN to Mrs. CHEAPE

                                                        THE UNIVERSITY,
                                                      GLASGOW, February 23, 1896.

   DEAR MRS. CHEAPE -- The first president of the Peter-

house Musical Society was G. E. Smith, who remained

     I.e., to Wakefield, where his father, Wm. H. Dykes, was Bank Manager.

n CAMBRIDGE 73

president until his death in 1844, when it had become
the C.U.M.S. He came up to Peterhouse as an under
graduate at the same time with myself, October 1841.

     Blow, an undergraduate of a year later, succeeded him,
and retired in 1845, when I became president.

     Blow was a splendid violin player, and he continued
as first violin in the C.U.M.S. till 1846. He became a
clergyman, and lived unto about 1874.

     When I left Cambridge in 1 846 to enter on my pro
fessorship here, your brother John succeeded me as
president.

    I came up from Glasgow in the May term, and con
tinued my part (as second horn) in the orchestra, till (as

far as I can recollect) your brother retired in 1847,
on leaving Cambridge. He was succeeded by E. W.
Whinfield, of Trinity, an excellent violoncello player of
whom your brother thought very highly.

   A Jubilee Commemoration of the first fifty years of the

C.U.M.S. was held at Cambridge in 1893, and I find a
menu-card of a dinner given on the occasion at King's
College Hall on the I2th June, with some pencilled notes
on the back of it for a reply to the toast " Prosperity to
the C.U.M.S."

    " Founded twenty -two years after the birth of Der

Freischutz.
    " Seventeen years after the birth of Oberon and death

of Weber.
    " Sixteen years after the death of Beethoven, Mendels

sohn still alive.
     " These were our gods.
    " 1843 : G. E. Smith, cornet, founder and first president.
     " 1844-45 : Blow, violin and president.

    "1845-46: Thomson, second horn and president
Macdonnel, of Magdalen, first horn and secretary.

    " 1846-47: Incomparable John Dykes, musician and

president.

    " 1847 : Whinfield, 'cello and president"
    I well remember my first visit to your father's hospit
able house, in Wakefield, with your brother, in the Easter

74    LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                     CHAP.

vacation 1844. I can never forget the kindness I

received from all your family, including the extreme

good-nature of your father in giving me some instructions

in the French horn, and allowing me to play on it in his

study when he was out at the Bank, and the, if possible,

more extreme good-nature of the rest of the family in

tolerating the noises that came from that room during

many hours of each day of my visit. I also remember well

being taken to a friend's house in Wakefield, and being

delighted with selections from Don Giovanni, instrumental

and vocal, in which your father played the horn part.

    I am glad to hear that there is to be a published

memoir, and a collection of your brother's hymn tunes, of

which the general public knows just enough to have some

appreciation of their extreme beauty.

    Will you give my kind remembrances to your brother

laentdtersiastnedrs,conagnrdatualcacteiopnts.m--y  warm     thanks for  your   kind
                                                   Believe   me, yours  very  truly,

                                                            KELVIN.

    Another reminiscence has been given by the late

Rev. J. A. L. Airey, Rector of St. Helen's, Bishops-

gate, in 1844 an undergraduate of Pembroke, and

second wrangler in 1846.

    One evening in the May term I was invited to attend

an instrumental performance of a Musical Society then in

its infancy under the direction of a Mr. Sippel, a musical-

instrument seller, and teacher of music in the King's
Parade. This subsequently became the " Cambridge

Musical Society." Then, for the first time, I heard the

violin and cornet-a-piston played to perfection, the former

by a Mr. Blow, an undergraduate of Peterhouse, and the

latter by a Mr. Smith, who produced such a soft and

mellow tone from his instrument that I made up my mind

from that time forth that the cornet was to be my instru

ment. Forthwith I borrowed one from Mr. Sippel, and

took  a course of lessons from him, until                   I was prepared    to
take  my place as " second cornet " in the                  Musical Society   at

ii CAMBRIDGE 75

the commencement of my second year, and played regularly

in the concerts      for two   s--easaofntse.rwarJodhs n   Bacchus   Dykes,  of
                      College                             the Dr.   Dykes    of
St Catherine's
sacred music reputation -- was the conductor, and Thomson,

of Peterhouse, my yoke-fellow, at the same desk for horns.
He is now Lord Kelvin. Both he and " Johnnie Dykes,"
and some few other musical friends, remained my inti

mate companions for the rest of my University life in all

things pertaining to musical affairs and pleasant even

ing gatherings.
     Here I should like to record a little incident when

Thomson and I, a short time afterwards, who were fellow-

pupils in Mathematics under the then distinguished

mathematical "coach," Mr. Hopkins, were reading the

Theory of Sound. In our cornet practice the fundamental
note, as ordinarily accounted and played, was an octave
higher than the theoretical fundamental note of an open

tube. How was this ? Thomson's inquiring mind could

not rest until he had reconciled the apparent anomaly ;
and one evening, as I was sitting quietly in my room,

enjoying my after-dinner pipe, he rushed in wildly, crying,
" Airey, Airey, I
                  "  have found it ; I have found it !              Where
is  your  horn                                                      he suc
                ?    Whereupon, after sundry efforts,

ceeded in producing the real fundamental note of the open

tube, and was satisfied. In fact, this note is so low, and

practically impossible of production, that it is not quoted

at all as the fundamental note, but the octave above takes

its name and place in ordinary parlance. This was an
early indication of the strong powers of investigation and

research in the student, who afterwards became the dis

tinguished scientist and electrician.

    The printed rules of the C.U.M.S. for the Lent

Term 1846 gives a list, showing that the Society
had then grown to number 426 adherents, the
Committee being W. Thinn, Pet. Coll., President ;

C. G. Coombe, Pet. Coll., Secretary ; B. Cridge,

Pet. ; J. B. Dykes, CatA. ; J. D. Hodgson, Pet.

76         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN        CHAP.

    Amongst the " full members " were Airey, J. A. L.,

Pemb. ; Blow, W., Pet. ; Frost, Rev. P., John's ; Pollock,
A. A., Pet. ; Shedden, T., Pet. ; Walmisley, Prof., Trin. ;
Whinfield, E. W., Trin. Amongst the "half-members"
(non-performers) were Bashforth, F. D., John's ; Black
burn, H., Trin. ; Hemming, G. W., John's ; Hopkins, W.,
Pet. ; Scratchley, T., Queens' ; Stephen, J. W., John's ;
Venables, H., Jesus ; Waddington, W. H., Trin. The
last-named was afterwards French Minister and Ambas

sador at the Court of St. James's.

    The prominence of Peterhouse will be noted.
Rule 7 runs : " That Peterhouse men be not subject

to the ballot."

    Lord Kelvin retained throughout his life his

love for music. Though he ceased from 1847 to

take any part in the concerts of the C.U.M.S., he

frequently came up to listen to the performance in

May. While he set down Weber, Beethoven, and

Mendelssohn as "our gods," he almost equally

admired Mozart, Haydn, and Schubert.  Bee

thoven's Waldstein sonata was a special favourite

with him.

    The spring of 1844 had been a very busy time
for Thomson. He was reading hard with Hopkins

at the appointed routine of mathematical tasks ; but

a mind like his could not dwell within routine.

The entry of March 1sth, 1843 (see p. 50) in his

diary shows that he had then, and ever since

Frankfort days, kept a private mathematical note

book in which he set down the ideas that came

to him. Though the first volume of this jour

nal cannot now be found, two volumes exist, one

ii  CAMBRIDGE                                         77

extending from December 1843 to June 1845, the
other from July 1845 to July 1856. In this journal,

on January nth, 1844, he sketches out his mathe

matical paper, " Note on some Points in the Theory

of Heat" (see p. 185), an investigation which he
finished in two days. It was inserted in the Cam

bridge Mathematical Journal for February 1844.

On May 1st we find the entry that he has been
                                    "
looking at Bertrand's  paper,  but      1  have  not  yet

had time to read his Memoir, as I have been quite

engaged with examinations and coaching on Astron

omy, etc." On May 4th he writes to his father
that Hopkins is intending to go to the seaside --to
Cromer -- in the long vacation with a party of

reading men, his pupils, to go on there with their

preparation for the coming ordeal of the Senate-

house examination. William, who goes to read

with Hopkins at 7    A.M. every other day, proposes
to join this party.  " I always bathe, before I go,

with Blackburn ; and on intermediate days I bathe

before going to chapel, so that I am up every

morning at six. The boat races commence on

Thursday, but I have nothing to do with them now,

as I have no time to spare from reading." From

his brother-in-law, Wm. Bottomley, he gets a

letter telling how the writer has heard report of a

certain dinner to the musician Hullah, at Cam

bridge, where, "on going upstairs to coffee, the

conversation became highly scientific : one gentle

man was demonstrating a geometric proposition,

using a muffin and several triangular pieces of toast

78                 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN               CHAP.

for a diagram." So do music and mathematics
mingle. The reading party at Cromer has now
been fixed for the end of May. It is to end about
the middle of August. He will have a month in

Scotland, returning to Cambridge in September,
after which the course will be clear to the Senate-

house.

    On May 13th the father writes to the son :--

    In going to Cromer, or elsewhere, you must of course

do as others do with regard to expense for lodgings, etc.

You may have it in your power, however, consistently with

propriety, directly or indirectly to check extravagance in
such things, and you ought to do so.

    And now another matter of importance looms

upon the scene.       William  writes of it to his

father :--

                               ST. PETER'S COLLEGE,

                             Sunday evening, June 2, 1 844.

    MY DEAR FATHER -- Our examination has been over

for a week now, as I suppose you know, but I have not

written to you about  as there was nothing connected
                      it,
with particularly exciting to me.      have been taking
      ; a it              I        II
an idle week since, and on Tuesday start for Cromer

along with Blackburn and Fischer. After we have been
eight weeks with Hopkins, we shall leave, and so Black

burn and shall be able to get to Scotland about the1

first of August. We shall have to leave again about theI
middle or end of September.

    Ellis has been here for some time, having come up

to set some of the Trinity examination papers.  I    have

seen          good deal of him last week. We have been

talking of plan which proposed for enlarging the
              a

       Robert Leslie Ellis, of Trinity; Senior Wrangler, 1840; Fellow ot1
Trinity editor of the Cambridge Mathematical Journal. Died at Cambridge,
May 1859.

II CAMBRIDGE 79

Mathematical Journal, so as to make it something of the
nature of Liouville's if possible. Of course the two great

difficulties will be to get contributors of memoirs, and

money enough to defray expenses, but as mathematical

study is considerably on the increase, here at least, we

are in hopes that in a few years' time we may have

succeeded in doing something for the object. If the

plan be carried out at all, the great object of course

would be to make the journal as general as possible in

this country, and to get it made known on the Continent.

I have been speaking to Cayley since, and he quite

enters into the plan. One great assistance he thinks

would be, that there is at present no journal of the kind

in this country, and that the want is very much felt by

mathematical men. Of course, I cannot spend any time
on such plans till after my degree, and Ellis proposes

that we should let the Journal go on, on its present plan,
till this time next year, when the fourth volume will be

finished, and then we may think on enlarging it.

     My address will be Cromer, Norfolk, which I suppose
will be sufficient, as it is a small place. To prevent

mistakes, however, it might be as well to put on the
                        twafoterormtyhreneamlee.tt--ersY, ou"rofafSfte.ctPioenteart'es
address   of the first
College,  Cambridge,"

son, WILLIAM THOMSON.

    He spent the first week at Cromer, before
serious reading began, partly in reading Airy's and

O'Brien's mathematical tracts, and partly with Black

burn in experimenting on spinning bodies, humming-
tops, and pebbles gathered on the beach, and hoops,
working at problems of their rotation. Thomson
and Fischer had lodgings in a house which, because
of its proximity to the edge of the crumbling cliff,
was called " Jeopardy College." Charles Buxton

was also of the party. Thomson writes again :--

80  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

                                           CROMER, NORFOLK, June 13, 1844.

     MY DEAR FATHER -- I have again to write to you on

 the same pleasant business that I had to write to you

 about so lately, which is to say that my money is again

 all gone. I spent nearly all the money you sent me in

 paying my Cambridge bills before I left, and the journey

 here, which was rather expensive, and my first week's

 expenses here, have exhausted my stock, so that I have

only half-a-crown left.

      Blackburn, who has been on several reading parties
such as the present, states, as results of his experience,

teBhalaachct ktbhuperenre,sxopnae,nndsbeessIid--aersehavflreoodmgloind1gg2.intgosT1h5rteosegheitllhoinefgr,suasna--dwFefioesrkchtefhore,r

three of us we pay two and a half guineas a week, so that

each will have to pay 17s. 6d. a week. Thus, before I

go away I shall have to pay £7 for lodgings, as I shall

have been here about eight (or possibly nine) weeks.
This, besides my weekly expenses (which we have, as yet,
been paying at the end of the week), will be all I shall

require, in addition to my travelling expenses to Scotland.
     I hope this will reach you before you leave Glasgow,

though, from what John says in his letter of June 5th, I
am rather afraid it may be too late.

     This is a very pleasant place for England, and especi
ally for Norfolk, which is rather remarkable for its dul-
ness. The whole country is elevated on the top of high,
steep cliffs of sand, and it is encroached upon every high
tide by the sea. The house we are in cannot survive
another winter, I think, unless great care is taken to
protect the cliff below it with a wall. This was attempted
to be done some time ago, but the first rough weather at
spring tide carried a great part of it away. We have

been bathing regularly since we came here, and walk
about a great deal, so that we are making the best use of
the sea air we can. We go to Hopkins every second

day to have an examination paper, and on the inter
mediate days I go to him at seven in the morning to
have my papers looked over. This will be our system

II CAMBRIDGE 81

all the rest of the time we read with Hopkins till we take

our degree, as we have now gone over all our subjects.

Since we came here, we have been commencing our
second year subjects (Diff. and Int. Calc., Diffl. Equations,

etc.).        arrived  here  on Tuesday. -- Your  affectionate
     Shedden

son, WILLIAM THOMSON.

   A letter to Walton, of date June 25th, shows

that, amongst other recreations, he is helping him

to revise the proof-sheets of Gregory's posthumous

book which Walton is completing, and he writes

giving Walton some novel demonstrations.

    On July 4th Aunt Gall writes to tell William

that the family has gone down to Gourock for
summer quarters, and adds, good soul, " I hear

Margaret Crum is home and quite well, and looking
well." His fair cousin's health seems to have been

not without interest.

                                                CROMER, July 10, 1844.

MY DEAR FATHER -- I heard from Aunt that you

have got pleasantly and comfortably settled at Gourock,

and I hope soon to be able to join you there.
    The very earliest that I can leave this is the 7th of

August, and even with remaining so long I shall not be

able to get my whole time with Hopkins, as he does not

return to Cambridge till the beginning of October. How
ever, he says that if I come up about the middle of
September and read by myself, I shall have plenty of

reading before January. He recommended me, however,

to take care and not give up preparation until the very

time of the examination, as even though I may have

gone over all the subjects carefully, the only plan to be
sure of " doing myself justice " is to keep up preparation
till the very last. We are still going on with examina

tion papers every second day, and have now got through

VOL. I                                            G

82       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                           CHAP.

Diff. and Int. Calc., and Statics and Dynamics, and to

morrow we commence the first year subjects, beginning

with Algebra and Trigonometry. I have been investigat

ing, as far as I have been able in the time I have been

able to spare, the theory of spinning tops and rolling

hoops, which is very curious and difficult. Blackburn
and I have been making a great many experiments on

the subject, and have collected quite a cabinet of ellipsoids

of various proportions, which we find on the beach, besides

having got a teetotum, humming top, and peery. Some of

the results we have obtained are very curious. . . .

    My best way from this will be by an Edinburgh

steamer, if the weather be sufficiently calm to enable us
(Blackburn and me) to get on board from this. If the
         rough this will
sea be   out some other   be impossible,  --anYdouwre   shall have
to find                   way of going.                affectionate

son, WILLIAM THOMSON.

    One of the incidents of the Cromer time was, as

Prof. Blackburn relates, their dining, of a Sunday, at
Northrepps Hall with Sir Thomas Powell Buxton,
and there after dinner each guest had to spout a bit
of poetry, and each was rewarded by the genial old
baronet with a crown piece ! Blackburn recited
Perdita on the gardener's art. On a second Sunday
Thomson obliged the company with Longfellow's
"Village Blacksmith." Sir Powell delighted them

by letting them ride his horses for recreation.
     When the reading party broke up, Thomson and

Blackburn took a boat and rowed out to sea, and
intercepted the G. N.S. steamer Trident, and so

went to Leith --a course, says Blackburn, "obviously

suggested by Thomson." From Glasgow Alexander
Crum accompanied him to Gourock. Thomson pays
visits to the Crums at Largs. He also goes to

11 CAMBRIDGE 83

Belfast to see his sister, Mrs. Bottomley. Papa,

ever on the alert, sends him word of the suspicious

circumstance that Prof. Forbes has been at the

British Association at York. Blow writes to him
to ask how the cornet gets on. " You will, I suspect,

give a solo on it at one of the concerts, and I would
              you --what                 "
accompany                  say  you
                                       ?

    The mathematical       note - book       affords     further
glimpses :--

Aug. 14, GOUROCK. -- Left Cromer Aug. 8, having

finished all the first and second year subjects with Hopkins,

and Hydrostatics, Optics, and ^ of Astronomy (i.e. one
paper out of three) of the third year subjects. I had
not much time for additional reading. This morning the

following theorem has occurred to me. I hope it has not

been proved by Gauss, and if not, it is highly improbable

that, any one  else has.   --. . .  I  have  long  been  entertain
     GOUROCK,   Sept. 10,
                           1844.
ing a project of writing a series of essays on the mathl.

theory of electricity, commencing with the fundamental

principles, and giving all the applications of the general

theorems relative to attraction, which are of use in giving

a comprehensive view of the subject. Though my plan

is not quite settled yet, and I shall have no time to think

upon it till after I take my degree, I commence writing

down some of my ideas in a disjointed manner. If my

projects relative to the Cambridge Math. Journal, which I
mentioned to Ellis last June, at Cambridge, succeed, I

shall probably be able to get the essays printed in

successive Nos., and possibly afterwards get them re

printed and published in a separate form, and thus fulfil my

old thoughts of writing a treatise on the Math. Theory of

Electricity.

   To the foregoing Thomson four months later
added the following notes :--

84               LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                    CHAP.

   Jan. 27, 1845. -- I have just met with Green's memoir,

which I first saw referred to in Murphy's first Memoir, on

Definite Integrals with physical applications, which renders
a separate treatise on electricity less necessary. (Paris,
Feb., Green's memoir creates a great sensation here.
Chasles and Sturm find their own results and demonstra
tions in it.)

    In the note-book, under date September 10, we
find five pages of a draft outline of a treatise :--

    " On the Mathematical Theory of Statical Electricity "

(hist"oTrihceal  sketch and general explanations).                  of  statical
                 object of the mathematical theory

elecStreipcti.ty25i.s--toAdrreitveerdminien,"    etc.      Monday,  Sept. 23,
                                               Cambridge,

...having left Gourock on the preceding Monday for Belfast.
       I shall probably be hardly able to open this book
till I take my degree, as all my time must now be spent

in preparation.

     Nevertheless we find entries : Sept. 27 (parabolic

orbit), 4 pp. ; Oct. 14 (orbital velocity), 1 p. ; Oct. 16
(principal axes of curvatures), 5 pp. ; Oct. 25 (ibid.,

and application to n dimensions), 4^ pp. ; Oct. 26

(variable elements in planetary theory), 3 pp. ;
Oct. 27 (problem of the hoop), 5^ pp. ; Nov. 6
(ibid.), and gives a theorem afterwards set by him,
May 1, 1845, in Peterhouse examination!; Nov. 15
(lines of curvature), 1 p. ; Nov. 23 (axis of tangent
cone to ellipsoid), 3 pp. ; Nov. 26 (reduction of
general equation of second degree, afterwards put

in Math. Journal, Feb. 1845), 2 pp.

    No sooner has Thomson returned to Cambridge

than his father sends him the latest intelligence :--

n CAMBRIDGE 85

                                                              GOUROCK, Sep. 22, 1844.

MY DEAR WILLIAM -- When in Glasgow on Friday at

the High School examinations I saw Dr. William Thomson

for a short time. He seemed much gratified when I told

him that you would probably take his advice about going

to Paris. He said he had conversed with Dr. Nichol on

the subject, who highly approved of the idea. He (Dr.
T.) lately met with a young man who had been studying
in Paris, and from him he took down for your express

use the accompanying notes regarding the Parisian lectures

on the back of a note that had been addressed to his

brother. (Preserve the memorandum.) He still speaks
emphatically about the necessity of your giving very great

attention to the experimental part as soon as you can ;
as he says no one will have any doubt as to your mathe

matical attainments, but that some may even think them

to be such as to make you neglect the popular parts of

Natural Philosophy ; and he wishes you to be able to

obviate such an objection, should it be started by any of

the electors. He is also equally anxious about your

following out his hint about writing some lectures or

discourses of a popular kind, and he remarked smiling

(and, I suppose, alluding to Lushington), that a Cambridge

education did not always give the power of easy expression

or of commanding the attention of an audience. He

added also that for such reasons it would be very desirable

both for your own improvement and for strengthening

the hands of your friends, that you should give great

attention to such matters. I told him that till January

you could not attend to such matters, but that I was sure

you would do so then. I am sure he is extremely friendly,

and that he will feel a pride in contributing to bring you

in ; but at the same time he would wish you as far as

possible to justify your friends in the eyes of the public

in making the choice.          He told me of his trip to

    I saw the Principal also.

Arran. He says Dr. M. is greatly fallen off, but still he

rises at one o'clock, and takes an airing before dinner and

one after it ; and he says his power of conversation is

86             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                           CHAP.

quite gone, and that he answers only in monosyllables.

I said I supposed the class would be taught by David

Thomson as usual, and he answered in rather a hesitating

way that he supposed it would.
    In the steamboat on my return I was introduced by

Mr. Patrick Mitchell to Mr. Bouverie, member for the

Kilmarnock burgh, and son to Lord Radnor, the great

Whig peer. He seems a very nice, agreeable, intelligent

young man. I am sure he must be a Cambridge man

(inquire and tell me) ; but so short was the time after
the introduction till he and Mr. M. left the boat at

Bowling, that I did not find time to ask him amid the

rest of the conversation which flowed very rapidly. Mr.
M., on " Tom Shedden's " authority, immediately told him

that you were to be senior wrangler, as there was no one
in Cambridge who could " touch " you. Mr. B. then asked

me had you a private tutor? "Yes." " Is it Hopkins?"
" Yes." " Oh, then, your son must be a crack man. Do
you really expect him to be Senior Wrangler ?" " Mr.

Hopkins writes that he thinks he will." "Then I shall

watch the papers in January with great interest to see

him gazetted as such." He spoke of the hard case of

Sylvester having been refused his degree, because as a

Jew he could not subscribe to the Thirty-Nine Articles.
On this Mr. M. mentioned our anti-test movement in

Scotland, and  Mr. B. hoped we would       I
said he would  give all the support he              it,
                                        cgoouldo.n--witham,   and
                                                             your

most affectionate father,      JAMES THOMSON.

    On October            William writes back wanting
    ;

                      7,
money. Hopkins, he says, has returned, and                   is

giving them trial examinations in physical astronomy

and optics and then we are to "commence for the

«th time revising our subject." The request so

soon for money surprises the father. In sending

his son the halves of bank-notes for 100 he raises
                                        £

the question of expenditures.

ii CAMBRIDGE 87

expeTnhdeitufroello:w--ing are the amounts of your three years'

Up to Sept. 26, 1842 .         .  . £240 : 1 1 : 7

From that date till Nov. 1, 1843  . 238:15:0
                                  . 295 : 0:0
            Oct. 12, 1844

                                                                                                              £774: 6:7

. . . How is this to be accounted for ? Have you lost

money or been defrauded of        or have you lived on
a
                                           it,

                                                             is
                                                                       it
a more expensive scale? Do consider the matter and

state fully and clearly what you take to be the reason.

With regard to what you now receive and what you may

get in future you must exercise the strictest economy that

shall be consistent with decency and comfort, not expend

ing even penny unnecessarily.

He then adds that Dr. Nichol strongly recommends

William's going to Paris.

    William replied on October 14 that he quite
surprised at the account of his expenditures. He

has latterly been living less expensively, and cannot

account for the increase. He has certainly neither

lost money nor been defrauded. He agrees that

would be most useful to him to go to Paris, the

expense being the only objection.

   At the end of October Mrs. Bottomley sends

news to William that Dr. M. has again had a slight

attack of illness, but that in the Glasgow session

now opening David Thomson will take the Natural

Philosophy class again for the winter.                                                                        William

writes to Mrs. King on November --
I
             I
                      is
                                                                       a

                                                                                                    ;

                                                                    6

                                                                                                           :
have very little time now for practising the corno

pean, and make no progress at present but knowing Blow

very well,  still manage to hear  good deal of fine

music. Blow now conductor of the Musical Society,

88             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                          CHAP.

which is going on with great vigour. The performers
are getting too proud for quadrilles and waltzes, with
which of course the Society commenced, and they are

now to give us only symphonies and overtures.

    On November 1 1 William hears from his younger

brother John that papa has seen Dr. M., and thinks
he cannot long survive. Aunt Gall next sends word
that papa has disclosed privately to the new Lord
Rector (Marquis of Breadalbane), "his intention
regarding you and the N. P. chair."

    The date for the Senate-house examination was

fixed for January 1, and the impression seems to
have been pretty general that William will emerge
from the ordeal as Senior Wrangler. Thomson's

1
   1

                                                         it,
brothers and sisters all expect and his Cambridge
friends do not conceal their opinion. On December

    he writes his own views of the situation to Aunt

Gall :--

    The subjects for examination are pressing in on all

sides, and seem very formidable at present but the
                                                                 I
greater the pressureis      now, the greater will be the relief          ;
                        is
this day four weeks when all will be over.                                do not feel

at all confident about the result, but am keeping myself
                                   I
as cool as possible, and think shall not be very muchit
                            Iif I         ;I
excited about  it  when the time comes. One thing, at

least, am sure of that             am lower than people expect,
I
        I                                                     and any of you
shall not distress myself about                                  it if

lose any money on me        I      shall consider                         your own

fault for giving odds.

    Next week he       sends   word to John that                            he and
Hugh Blackburn        " made                                                animal
                                an experiment on
heat by bathing last Saturday," -- in the middle of
the frost. Whereupon papa writes --
                                                              :

ii CAMBRIDGE 89

                    GLASGOW COLLEGE, Dec. 18, 1844.

MY DEAR WILLIAM -- Having no proof sheets and no

very urgent business on hand to-night, I sit down to drop

you a note. . . .
     David Thomson is a candidate for the Nat. Phil,

chair in Aberdeen, now vacant by the death of ray old

friend Dr. Knight.  I think he has a pretty good chance
of success.

So your examinations commence this day fortnight.

You cannot but feel anxious till they are over, and so will

your friends. In the meantime think not of them, but of

the preparation for them. By so doing I have no fear

that you will be cool and retain your self-possession.

Above all things be careful of your health. I much

doubt the propriety of bathing out of doors on such a

day as last Saturday was here. Experiments on yourself

regarding animal heat are very questionable. I suppose

you will not know how matters stand regarding your

examination till the result is finally announced. Can you

contrive to drop us a note each evening telling us about

your health, how you get on, etc., or to get some one else
to do so ? Let the note be as brief as you choose, and let

it be merely legible. I am told the best men often do

worse than the inferior ones, during the first and second

days, from having forgotten the earlier and more elementary

subjects. Are you made up on those subjects ? . . . Till

your examinations drop a short note now and then. The

first part of the new edition of Euclid is out,  and   is in the
                                                 half
hands of the students ; the second part is             done. --

Ever most affectionately yours,  JAMES THOMSON.

A silence of expectancy falls upon the family

circle, and until the testing time is over there are

only a few briefest notes to keep the anxious father

informed.  His tutor Cookson wrote after the second

day :--

90      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                   CHAP.

                  ST. PETER'S COLLEGE, Jany. 3, 1845.

    MY DEAR SIR -- I write you a few lines to say that

your son continues in good health and spirits during

the examination, and that he does not complain of being

tired.

    He has shown me what he has done in each of the

papers up to last night ; but I am unable to draw any

great inference from the information.

    The papers in which he may be expected to do so well

in are those of this afternoon, and the three remaining

days of the examination.

     He does not  appear to have  been much   apfletearsneodonw. i--th
Mr. Blackall's    problem paper    yesterday

With best wishes I remain, my dear sir, yours very faith

fully,                                 H. W. COOKSON.

    Dr. James Thomson.

    Hopkins also wrote encouragingly. Then the

father begins again to elaborate plans :--

                                       GLASGOW COLLEGE, Jan. 8, 1845.

    MY DEAR WILLIAM -- I cordially congratulate you on

the close of your examinations, which you must feel as a
great relief. I am perfectly satisfied that you have done
your part well, and whether you get the place we all wish

you or not, you cannot be blamed either by yourself or

your friends.
     From Mr. Cookson's and Mr. Hopkins's letters we

have great hopes. Still there is no surety as yet, and I

do not think you are more anxious on this subject than

we are here. Relieve our suspense, therefore, as soon as

you can. I thought the announcement would have been
made much sooner than Friday, the 1 7th inst.-- the time
Mr. Hopkins and you mention. You must have got on
most satisfactorily on Monday. Tell me when you write
whether you will get credit and advantage for having
finished the papers in less than the prescribed time. In

justice you ought.

n CAMBRIDGE 91

I still think it best for you to go to Paris ; and as

soon as your place at the examination is announced, I

shall set about procuring you introductions. You, too,

must try to get some at Cambridge to the leading science
men in Paris. I shall apply to Sir David Brewster, Sir

Th. Brisbane, Dr. Chalmers (who is a member of the
Institute), Mr. Crum, and perhaps Professor Forbes ; also
to Mr. Ogilby of London, Dr. Patterson's brother-in-law,

etc. ; and Dr. W. Thomson is laying plans for getting

introductions from Lord Brougham and Lord Jeffray.

Colonel Sabine also might do something. Whewell,

Peacock, Babbage, Herschel, Airy, could serve you much,

if you could " get at them," which I think you might after

your exams. Take down a list of all the persons you

can think of, and consider and purge it at your leisure.

    I write to Longmans' people to send copies of the

Algebra to your care for Walton and Fischer. Deliver

them without delay with my compliments.

       Robert is going on well, but, as his sick -nurse ex
         he " perfect anatomy."
pressesI

           it,
                      is
                             a
       At Hamerton Academy my Algebra has superseded

De     --Morgaamn',s,maonstd   my Euclid Chambers'  edition  of  Play-
fair.                         affectly. yours,

                                      JAMES THOMSON.

     Thomson's private mathematical note-book bears:

the following entry --             1                             in It is
   Jan. nth, 1845. --The Senate-house examination
                                   a
now over, and has been very satisfactory to me. The
result will be known on January 7th. One of Goodwin's
problems suggested some consideration about the equili
brium of particles acted on by forces varying inversely as
the square of the distance.

And so at once he sits down to write an original
paper, a " Demonstration of Fundamental Pro
position in the Mechanical Theory of Electricity."

appeared in the Cambridge Mathematical Journal

92  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                          CHAP.

February 1845. The eight pages of notes conclude

thus :-- " If I succeed in putting it in French I shall

send it to Liouville," and forthwith there follow

fourteen manuscript pages of French.
    While waiting for the fateful 17th of January,

William sends modest but hopeful letters to his

brother James and to his father.

                         ST. PETER'S COLLEGE, Jan. 9, 1845.

    MY DEAR JAMES -- I received papa's letter yesterday,

in wh. he told me about Robert's serious illness, and

about your pulse. I had been afraid about Robert, from

what I heard previously, and am glad to hear he is

recovering. I hope to hear that you are getting on well

too. I am sure you must be glad to be at home for some

time after so long being away.

     Tell papa that the Smith's Prize examination commences
on Monday week. It will last for four or five days.

    Nothing can be heard about the result of the Senate-

house examination till Friday week, when the list will
appear. Of course I shall let you hear at the earliest

possible time. I feel quite easy myself about not from
                                      I

                                             is
                                                    it,
being confident, as that depends on others as well as on

myself, but because       have succeeded quite as well, or in
                      It I
fact much better than expected, and have thereforeIif is I       a

very slight amount, in comparison to what usual to me,

and suppose everybody, of regrets hanging about, after
II
the examination.                   certainly rather annoying to
             a
remember blunders, and to think how many things you
               I
might have done and did not but as know could not
                                   ;  is

                                           I
                                                   I

                                                      II
                                                           Ia a
possibly do better again           were to go in again to similar

examination, feel tolerably comfortable.

    have been enjoying the time to the utmost since the

examination, wh.  is  a  great weight removed.  have read

The Chimes and half a novel, and to-day had ride

with Shedden and Buxton, wh. the first time have

been on horse in Cambridge.

ii CAMBRIDGE 93

     I shall be ready to leave Cambridge on Saturday fort
night, and to go to Paris if papa thinks proper. I shall
get my pecuniary matters settled as soon as possible, and

write when I have done so. -- Your affectionate brother,
                                               WILLIAM THOMSON.

                                    ST. PETER'S COLLEGE, Jan. 14, 1845.

    MY DEAR FATHER -- I received the newspaper yes

terday containing Rutherford's speech. I am very glad
to see that he took up the subject of tests, and the

manner in which he treated it. I hope when the matter
is so well advocated that it will soon be settled, as it must

be ultimately.
     I called on Cookson to-day, and had a long conversa

tion. He is going to get me some introductions in Paris
if he can, and he recommends me to ask Professor Challis

for some as soon as the Smith's Prize examination is over,
which will be about Thursday week. On Monday week

I shall leave this if I can get all settled, and shall lose
as little time as possible in going to Paris. I have
applied for rooms here at the middle or end of May, and
Mr. Cookson is to get me some pupils if he can, from the
first of June till the first of August. Of course there will
be nothing binding about either rooms or pupils, as I can
easily change my mind if any good reason should occur
before June. I think Blackburn will possibly accompany
me to Paris, as I have been trying to persuade him to do,
but he has not made up his mind. I wish you could hear
of a professorship for him at a Scotch University. I
think if there were any more professorships in Natural
Philosophy he would answer exceedingly well. I think
he is to be second or third on Friday morning, but of
course it is impossible to say yet. The Johnians are
talking confidently of their hero, but I feel quite certain

that nothing has fallen from the examiners yet, and that
reports merely arise from what each man says he has

done in the Senate House, himself. I have not been

making myself in the least anxious on the subject, but

have commenced reading again, with more satisfaction

94         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                 CHAP.

than I have been able to do for three years, as I have now

no more examination cares.

    I shall not be able to leave this without some of the

sinews of war, as my money is all spent, and I have still

about £10 to pay here. I thought I should have had

enough to clear me, but I found unexpectedly that I had

to pay £8:2:6 of fees to the University Registrar and

Jfuelnl iournePxrpoeccttoerd, lyb.eforeIf  taking my degree,  and so       my  funds
                                            you choose I can    leave      my  debts

to be paid by the Smith's Prize, wh. though not in

the hand, yet as there are two in the bush, I think that

at the worst I shall get one of them. However, as I

know in Hemming's case, the money was not paid till
after two or three months, I should have to leave my

debts till I come here in May, wh., however, I could

easily arrange to do.

     I received to-day the copies of your Algebra for
Fischer and Walton, wh. I am just going to deliver. I

may say in advance that they are both very much obliged
           apnredseIntas.m--suYroeurthaatffetchteioynawtiell
to  you,                                                       make  very  good  use
of  their                                                     son,

                                           WILLIAM THOMSON.

   P.S. -- I was very glad to hear that Anna has got well

over her examination. Whatever may be the result of
mine, I hope you will write to Cookson thanking him for

the kind way in wh. he has always done everything he

could to help me.

    To his Cambridge training Thomson owed much,
as he himself was always ready to acknowledge. It

compelled his impetuous and somewhat erratic

genius, which was apt to rush into untried methods,

to put itself, in measure at least, under restraint. It

schooled him to test generalities that otherwise he

might have taken for granted ; to seek for exact
proofs rather than remain contented with partial

ii CAMBRIDGE 95

solutions. But if it did this for him, the ponder

ous Cambridge system of mathematical training

of those days must have been truly galling to any

student of real genius. To secure a leading place

in the Senate-house the candidate must have at

his finger-tips the solutions of known problems,

polishing up his methods of writing out the solu

tions, so as to be able to get through an immense
quantity of book-work in a short time. Drilled for

months by his coach or his tutor in this species of
gymnastic, as if he were being trained for a race,

the candidate indeed acquired facility in dealing

with particular classes of problems in the particular

mode then in vogue. But such a training was not

adapted either to cultivate originality or to advance

mathematical science.  It set up a false ideal of

attainment, and not infrequently caused the coveted

position of Senior Wrangler to be awarded, not to

the best mathematician of his year, but to the one
who had been best groomed for the race. As we

know the respect for it fell, and the Senior

Wranglership is now consigned to the past. At

this time the other great mathematical coach at

Cambridge was Hymers of St. John's. He had mas
tered the art of training men to work the ordinary

mathematical problems with precision and celerity,

and could tell to a nicety the kind of work that would

"pay" in the Senate-house examination. Hopkins,

who was a far abler man, of much wider outlook,

doubtless did his best to train young Thomson in

the way then considered orthodox, and to fill him

96  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

out with the book-work that could be reproduced in
the examination -room by effort of memory, and
rapidly written down. But Thomson, to whom
much of the book- work must have been child's play,
and who had worlds of his own to conquer, could

never --happily for science -- have been kept to this
soulless routine. He had, as we have seen, already

broken ground in certain higher branches of mathe
matics, the convergency of Fourier's series, the
application of it to determine the age of an assigned
thermal distribution, and the analogy between the
conduction of heat and the attractions between elec
trified bodies. He had also either published, or
prepared for publication, papers on Curvilinear
Isothermal Co-ordinates, on the Intersections of a

Triple System of mutually Orthogonal Surfaces, on
the Reduction of the General Equation of Surfaces
of the Second Order, and on the Lines of Curva

ture of these surfaces. Only two months before his
final examination he had published a paper on the
gravitational effect at the surface of a steadily

revolving ellipsoidal mass of homogeneous fluid --a

geo-metric problem of a class which continued for
many years to have a species of fascination for his

mind.

    It is a sufficient commentary on the then Cam

bridge system, to observe that devotion to scientific
activity of the highest order such as this acted as a

hindrance rather than a help to University honours.
Hopkins might well declare that he had in Thomson
a candidate whose mathematical abilities would out

n CAMBRIDGE 97

shine those of any man in England ; but Hymers

was reported to boast that he had a candidate whom
he would guarantee to beat any man in Europe.

And so it came about that at the Senate -house

examination of January 1845, to the amazement
and chagrin of Thomson's friends, the names were
announced, as Senior Wrangler, Parkinson l of St.
John's ; as Second Wrangler, Thomson of Peter-
house. The disappointment was, however, miti

gated by the circumstance that in the immediately
following award of the Smith's Prizes, made by the
examiners under conditions where mathematical

power counted for more, and mere acquisition and

memory were of less moment, Thomson far out

distanced his competitor.

    The examiners in the Tripos of 1845 were
Samuel Blackall of St. John's, Harvey Goodwin
(afterwards Bishop of Carlisle) of Caius, Robert
Leslie Ellis of Trinity, and John Sykes of Pembroke.
The papers set that year differed in no special
feature from the Senate-house papers of the time.
Ellis and Goodwin, at least, were men of mark

in Mathematics, having been respectively Senior
and Second Wrangler in 1840. Goodwin in the
biography of Ellis, which he wrote for the volume
of Ellis's collected papers, gives the following

reminiscence :-- " It was in this year that Professor
W. Thomson took his degree ; great expectations

had been excited concerning him, and I remember

    1 Rev. Stephen Parkinson, later D.D., F. R. S. , and Tutor of St. John's
College for many years. Author of Parkinson's Treatise en Optics. Died 1889.

VOL. I  H

98                 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                   CHAP.

Ellis remarking to me, with a smile, ' You and I
are just about fit to mend his pens.'" It was
assuredly, therefore, not from any want either of

mathematical capacity or of appreciation of a candi

date's merit that the examiners awarded the Senior

place to another than the man to whom one of

themselves could pay this tribute. There are several

accounts current to explain Thomson's failure to

secure the highest position. One of these ascribes
Parkinson's success to the extraordinary speed l

with which he threw off the answers to the book-

work, thus gaining more time for the problems.

Another legendary story is that amongst the

questions set were certain theorems taken from

Thomson's own published papers, and that these

Parkinson was able by pure memory to prove,

whilst Thomson tried in vain to reconstruct his

own arguments.2                                 To his father
    Thomson took his defeat quietly.

he wrote :--

    1 In the Rev. F. Arnold's Oxford and Cambridge, their Colleges, Memories,
and Associations (pub. 1873), p. 380, is the following narration: "The
' pace of Parkinson ' has at Cambridge almost passed into a proverb. It was

said that the successful candidate had practised writing out against time for
six months together, merely to gain pace. Mr. Ellis, who examined that

year, said it exercised quite a snake-like fascination on him to stand and see

this young Johnian throw off sheet after sheet. He could scarcely believe
that the man could have covered so much paper with ink in the time (to say
nothing of the accuracy of the performance), even though he had seen it

written out under   his own eyes. There was     haistredmegernedeo. u"s  scene in the Senate
House when the     disappointed favourite took
    a Sir Joseph Larmor has given the following comment on this story :--
"Another form of the tale is that in the Smith's Prize examination two of the

candidates answered a question in such striking and identical terms that in

vestigation was made ; when it turned out that the answers were taken from

Thomson's path-breaking paper of four years previously, which had appeared
under his customary signature of P.Q.R. As a fact, Earnshaw did set a
question asking for a development of the general analogy between the theory
of attractions and the conduction of heat"

ii CAMBRIDGE 99

                                                                  ST. PETER'S COLLEGE,
                                                               January 17, 1845.

    MY DEAR FATHER --You see I was right in cautioning
you not to be too sanguine about my place. If neither

you nor any others of my friends will be less disappointed

with the result than I am, all will be right. The only

thing I feel in the least degree about it is that it may

make it more difficult to succeed in getting the professor

ship in Glasgow.

    In a mathematical point of view the disappointment is

absolutely nothing when I see Gregory fifth, Green fourth,
with Brummel above them, and Sylvester second with

Griffin above him, and when I see a man like Pierson

above such men as Fischer and Blackburn.

I hope you will not think I have misspent my time

here. I feel quite satisfied that I have spent as much

time on reading and preparation as I could, consistently

with higher views in science. The Johnians give them
selves up to one object, and it is fair that they should have

their reward.

     The Smith's Prize examination commences on Monday,

but I have always had much less hopes from it than from

the Senate - house. However, I hope I shall get one of

them, and the prize is the same for each.

    I have just got two papers ready for Ellis, with which

I have been composing myself in the week of suspense,

wh.  I   hthopeeSwenilal tep-lheoausese.h--imYobuetrtearffethcatinontahtee  papers  I  sent
him                                                                         son,
     in

               WILLIAM THOMSON.

    P.S. -- As I cannot get a printed list in time for the
post as I had intended I transcribe a short extract.

     Parkinson, Joh. ; Thomson, Pet. ; Pierson, Joh. ;
Fischer, Pemb. ; Blackburn, Trin.

                                                                   ST. PETER'S COLLEGE,

                                                               January 18, 1845.

    MY DEAR FATHER -- I hope by this time you have

recovered from the shock of what I am afraid you must

100                 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                 CHAP.

have considered very unpleasant intelligence. I have
felt perfectly tranquil and resigned ever since I came
out of the Senate - house, though, of course, there was

a slight temporary intermission in the feeling yester

day. I have been with Ellis a good deal yesterday

and to-day, though, of course, since he accepted the

office of examiner till the result was known we had to

cut one another. I have (and had previously) been speak
ing to him about my chance of getting the professor

ship of Natural Philosophy, and to-day he said, quite of
his own accord, that he " has no doubt but that I should
be a much better professor than if I had spent my time

the way in which it would have been necessary to beat

Parkinson," which, you see, confirms what I said to you

yesterday. Excepting for public opinion, I could not

possibly wish to be better trained for the Senate-house

examination than I was, as during the whole examination

I was never once in doubt about any principle, or even

fact, in any of the subjects that were set, though at the

same time I can see easily how I might have gained marks

in many cases by being more ready in writing things out.

As I have the readiness in remembering things and apply

ing them when I wish, which of course, very desirable,
                                      is,

                                        I
do not see in the abstract why should wish to be able
I

                                a
to write them down in examination form with little more
                                                           a

rapidity or in little shorter space though, however,                                    it
                                                        ;

would have been much pleasanter to be first than second.

Ellis tells me, and does not hesitate to tell others of his

friends, that even without previous opinion he could see

by my papers that am better than Parkinson, but that
                                   I                       I
                                          if                       I

                                                     I                            II
fell short of him in quantity.                          believe, though am not

quite sure, that in the last day's papers beat him.

shall, however, find out possible.

     am afraid you must have thought the beginning of
I

      I

           I it
my yesterday's letter rather strange. The fact was that

wrote with the idea that should receive the printed
                                   I

list, wh. now enclose, in time to send along with wh.,
                                                        :

                                                                I

                                                                                 a it,
however, did not come soon enough item, was little

confused as suppose you saw.
                 I

n                     CAMBRIDGE                            101

   I do not know whether I have spoken to you yet

about the British Association wh. is to meet here in June.
    I have asked Cookson whether you could have rooms

in College, if you come up, and he says you could have

them without the least difficulty. I hope you will come

and visit me then. I shall be here at any rate, as it will be

prudent for me to be about Cambridge till July, when the

Fellows are elected.

   Ellis also to-day asked me whether you would not

come up then.

     Has David Thomson succeeded in getting the situa

tion he was trying for ? If he succeeds I suppose another

assistant would be wanted in his place, for wh. I might

perhaps become a candidate. Would it be possible in

such a case to get an arrangement made with Dr.
Meikleham to get a new professor appointed ? Of course,

if I were to succeed, Dr. Meikleham could keep his house,

provided no other professor would use his right of moving

into it. As far as regards money I think an arrangement

might easily be made, as for the present a very little

would be enough for me.

   I have forgotten, among other things, to tell that I

have got through the dreadful and imposing ceremony of

having my degree conferred, and that I am pronounced to
be l a young man suited, as well in manners as in doctrine,

for answering the question, to do wh. I shall therefore be

admitted sometime or other when I am in Paris, at wh.

instant I shall be a total bachelor, wh. I now am partially.

     Having exhausted egotistical  sstuobpj.e--ctsYoaundr  finished the
                                                           affectionate
second sheet of paper I must

son, WILLIAM THOMSON.

     Another letter, which Thomson sent on January

aoth to his sister Elizabeth (Mrs. King) shows that
while he felt the disappointment more for his father's

     1 [The formula of presentation to the Vice-Chancellor of a candidate for
the degree of B. A. runs : Presento vobis hunc juvenem quem scio tam moribus
quam doctrina idoneum esse ad assequendum titulum baccalaurei in artibus
designati.]

102 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

sake than for his own, he yet feared the possible

effect on their cherished ambition. He wrote :--

    I have this moment received your letter with congratu

lations on my approaching triumph which is now passed,

though it was not perfectly satisfactory, yet it was quite

well enough, as I never relied much on examinations nor
built many hopes on them. Of course, the only thing I

care in the least about is the effect on my future prospects,

and I think my place will do well enough in that respect,

at least as far as regards a fellowship here ; and, I hope,

for the professorship in Glasgow also.

    The principal thing that I care about in the result of
the examination is the disappointment which I am afraid

Papa must feel, as I am afraid he had rather raised his

    I
         ?
          I
                      it,

                          I
                              :I
hopes about though tried to keep him from expecting

too much before the examination, as knew the uncer
                                   I
tainty. Will you write to me and tell me what he has
                                       I
said  suppose he will write, but should like to hear

from you what he thinks.

    Elizabeth replied --

        was very sorry in reading your letter, which arrived

on Sunday, when came to the part where you say you
are afraid papa will think you have misspent your time
at Cambridge. He does no such thing he very proud
of his son, and not in the slightest degree less pleased

with him since the small humiliation he has met with.
                                   :

                                            is

    His father himself replied --
             is

                           I
                                                                :
                                                        a
                                                                                                                        ;
                                                                January 19, 1845.

    MY DEAR WILLIAM -- The place you have got at the

examination  an excellent one, and you and all of us

ought to be well satisfied with it. In point of name

the next higher place would have been desirable but

coupling with your place all other distinctions that you
can claim, we can and will make out good case for you.

     No doubt you will do what you can at the examina

tion for Smith's Prizes.          fear, however, the cramming

ii                   CAMBRIDGE                                 103

which succeeded before will do so again ; but try what

you can do.

    Dr. W. Thomson and I have had one of our private

consultations. He 'is most friendly and kind. He says
it is no matter with sensible people about the Senior

Wranglership, but that you must endeavour to do more in

future than you otherwise might. He is to write to

Prof. M'Vey Napier of Edinburgh, editor of the Edinburgh

Review, to get Lord Brougham to give you introductions

to Paris, which he says Lord B. is very capable of

giving with good effect. Failing Prof. Napier, he will

apply to Lord Jeffray ; and I am sure his head is at work
to serve you in other quarters. He in fact, to write to
                               I
his brother, Dr. Allen Thomson, one of the Edinburgh
                                         is,
professors, to endeavour to get you an introduction to      a

some good medical student in Paris, who might assist you

regarding lodgings, etc. etc.

    will send you money in due time to free you in one
    I
way or other of Cambridge, and will send you the means
        is
of getting a letter of credit in Paris from Coutts, or some

other bankers in London.

    You will be glad to hear that John has got unanimous
appointment by the Faculty to the Brisbane bursary for

four years at £50 year.
            .
     Communicate with me as frequently as      yoPurizecsan--, pnaort,
ticularly about your examinations for Smith'sa

however, so as to fatigue you or to interfere with your

preparations. . . Your very affectionate father,

                                JAMES THOMSON.

    [P.5.] When will Smith's Prizes be decided
                               :
                                                                 ?

                                                                                    :

                                                                  it
    Whewell wrote to Forbes " Thomson of Glas

gow much the greatest mathematical genius theit

Senior Wrangler was better drilled." This verdict
being shown to Dr. James Thomson, he copied
out and sent with great joy to his son.

    Cookson wrote, too, expressing regret at the

104 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

result of the examination, and adding that his
opinion of William's talents was not affected by it.

Hopkins also sent a sympathetic letter to the father
to express his very great disappointment, and to
assure him that, nevertheless, the circumstance had

not affected in the slightest degree the high opinion
in which he held the talents and acquirements of

the son.

    Then the father writes again to the son :--

                                   GLASGOW COLLEGE, Jan. 22, 1845.

MY DEAR WILLIAM-- Griffin sells the Glasgow Newton

in two large 8vos (the same as your prize) at 14 shillings
in boards, and he will send it free of expense to London.

If Fischer agrees to take it let me know, and I shall pay

it here, and he can pay you in Cambridge. It could,

probably, be sent for no or small expense to Cambridge,

perhaps in a parcel to some Cambridge bookseller. If it

is to be sent, state what is to be done with it when it

reaches London.

     Hopkins's letter has done you great good here. The
man that wrote it has a lieart and a head. Mr. Buchanan

read it to-day in our dining-room, apparently and I think

really, with great satisfaction, and at one part of it ex
          " That                                         "
claimed,          is the  kind of man we  should  have              I
                                                        I

do not see any meaning to put on this except what at

once occurred to myself, and what will readily occur to

you.

     I gave this letter to Mr. Ramsay, and he, without
asking me whether he might, sent it to Mr. Maconochie.
Dr. Nichol, who has been dining with Mr. Lushington,

has just called, and he and Lushington have been greatly
delighted with Hopkins's letter, which I had sent to L.

before dinner.

     From Dr. Chalmers I have got introductions for you
to Biot and another. Sir D. Brewster writes to say that
he will send after you, what he is too busy just now with

ii                          CAMBRIDGE                                  105

the Royal Commission at St. Andrews to write at present,
introductions to Biot, Arago, and another whose name I
cannot read. Mr. Crum will introduce you to Dumas.
From Forbes I have not yet heard.

     I am sending money to Fisher and Son, part of which

is to carry you to Paris after paying for your passport,

etc. etc. Of this, however, more again. You must be
brushing up your French. -- I am, your affectionate father,

                                                       JAMES THOMSON.

     Happily the shadow of disappointment quickly
passed away, for at the Smith's Prize examination

the tables were turned, and the son could write :--

                                     ST. PETER'S COLLEGE, Jan. 24, 1845.

     MY DEAR FATHER -- The result of the Smith Prize

examination has just been announced to me this moment,
and I am successful in getting the first. Parkinson has

the  second.    I   have    n--o Ymoourer  time now, but I    enclose  you
the  remaining     papers.
                                           affectionate son,

                                           WILLIAM THOMSON.

             I received your letter this instant, which was no

small addition to my happiness.

    Ellis wrote to Thomson most cordially :--
    MY DEAR THOMSON -- Let me congratulate you on

the result of the Smith's Prize examination. The papers
were, I should think from the result, of a higher character
than they have usually been. As the Smith has ex
professo especial reference to natural philosophy, it will
necessarily tell upon the minds of people in Glasgow, more

one would be apt to believe, than the degree. I look upon

the professorship as the point in which university honours
may be of some service : I hope they will do all that you

can wish in this matter.

    Further, the kindly tutor and the sympathetic
coach sent their congratulations in glowing terms.

106 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

     Cookson wrote hastily on January 24th, " I have
just seen your son, who is overjoyed at his success.
The intelligence will, I am sure, be very gratifying

to you." The next day he wrote again :--

                                ST. PETER'S COLLEGE, Jan. 25, 1845.

MY DEAR SIR -- I wrote a few lines to you yesterday

to communicate the joyful intelligence of your son being
first Smith's prizeman. Since then I have heard some

thing of the sort of examination which your son passed,
and I think that you will be glad to know it.

     In the first place, the decision was unanimous. The
examiners were Dr. Whewell, Dr. Peacock, Prof. Challis,

and Mr. Earnshaw, and your son beat all his competitors
very decidedly in all their papers. In two of them the
" marks " were in the proportion of three to two. In the

other two my informant (one of the four examiners) told
me that your son was decidedly the first, though he did
not know the proportion of marks. It is certain, there

fore, that in this examination your son has proved himself

decidedly superior to the Senior Wrangler. It was the

unanimous opinion of the examiners that he was so.
    It was also                            --puthbolicug--h
                 stated by the  examiners                     perhaps
this is not a    matter to be   made too                     that the

candidates were the best they had ever examined.

    My informant speaks of your son as a mathematician

of very first-rate powers, and expressed himself much
pleased at the manner in which he had made light of his

most difficult questions.

There can now be no longer any doubt that your son has

reinstated himself in the opinion of the University, and he
may continue his career in the conviction that he will

never be looked upon as a beaten candidate.

I hope that the present is only the commencement of

a glorious career.

     Allow me at this time to say how much pleasure I

have had in considering him as one of my pupils. The
absence of all conceit and self-will from his disposition

ii                CAMBRIDGE                                       107

has made our intercourse agreeable,' and rendered it

additionally grateful to listen to the constant praise

bestowed upon his talents. In this respect I cannot speak

in too high praise of him, and I feel assured that the same

good qualities would always earn for him the same good

opinion.

    Accept my best thanks for the kind expressions con

tained in your last letter.

    I feel that I have but very imperfectly conveyed to

you the information I received respecting the examina

tion. The terms made use of towards your son were of

the most flattering kind, and showed the extremely high

opinion which was entertained of him, much higher, I

believe, than you would infer from my account.

    The college to-day presented him with twenty guineas
as a prize l for books, a small and insufficient acknowledg

ment of the honour done to us, and a testimonial of the

esteem we have for him. -- Believe me, my dear sir, yours

very faithfully,                             H. W. COOKSON.

    Dr. Thomson.

    Hopkins also wrote :--

                                                     CAMBRIDGE, Jan. 29, '45.

    MY DEAR SIR -- It is only want of time that has pre

vented my writing to you sooner on the gratifying result

of the examination for the Smith's Prize. It has made

us all quite happy again. The examination, as you are

probably aware, is altogether of a higher character than

that of the Senate -house, being, in fact, intended to

furnish a higher test of the merits of the first men. The

high philosophical character of your son's mind and

acquirements found here much more room for develop

ment than in the   Senate - house, and                  --the consequence
was that he beat  his opponent with
                                                       ease he was the

facile princeps.  None of the four examiners had the

smallest hesitation in placing him decidedly first. The

    1 The College books record this gift to  William   T" homson  "in considera
tion of his great mind and of his exemplary  conduct.

108  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                        CHAP.

result, I assure you, has given great satisfaction to a great
number of persons here, as having restored your son to

that pre-eminence to which they believe him to be entitled.
He has had to contend with a most formidable opponent,

with whom he has now fairly divided the highest honours
of the University, having himself obtained unquestionably
the highest, though not that which, out of the University,

confers the most popular reputation.

    Your son himself, I may venture to say, is perfectly

satisfied, and set out in high spirits last Monday morning

for Paris with his friend Blackburn. --Yours very truly,

                                                              W. HOPKINS.

    And so Thomson prepares to bid     for a time
                                       father as to
adieu to Cambridge, and writes to his

his immediate movements :--

                 ST. PETER'S COLLEGE, Jan. 35, 1845.

     MY DEAR FATHER -- To-morrow morning at six o'clock

I start along with Blackburn for London, where we mean

to stop as short as possible on our way to Paris. I

received the second halves of the notes yesterday, and

have got matters all right.

     On account of the seasonable cheque I received yester
Ifday I have been able to pay everything here.
                                                you

choose, I need not buy books with the money yet, as I

can do that afterwards. . . .

     I called on Prof. Challis yesterday to bid farewell.

He told me of his own accord that the examiners had

been unanimous.

     Yesterday I got some separated copies of various

memoirs from Hopkins, and among them a most valuable

one by Green, with wh. I am greatly delighted. He is

to have an introduction ready for me to Elie de Beaumont,

one of the French geologists, who, however, has an exten

sive acquaintance among all kinds of scientific men.
     I shall attend carefully to Prof. Forbes's commission

and to his general directions.

ii  CAMBRIDGE  109

    I shall not be able to write again till I reach Paris
probably, and so farewell. -- Your affectionate son,

                                               WILLIAM THOMSON.

    P.S. -- If you have not paid Hopkins for the long

vacation, £40 will be due, that being the payment for the
long vacation and last term.

    This last sentence renders appropriate some

further reference to finance. Thomson had gone

to Cambridge in 1841 at his father's expense, and
without any scholarship to maintain him. In 1842
he obtained the Gisborne Scholarship, worth about

^30 per annum, and this he retained during the
remainder of his undergraduate course ; he appears

in the University calendars as Gisborne Scholar
for 1843 and 1844. No scholars were admitted at
Peterhouse in the years of Thomson's residence,

except the Gisborne Scholars ; but certain exhibi

tions, called scholarships, were from time to time

awarded at the Tutor's discretion. In 1842 his
College awarded him a mathematical prize of ^"5

and another of £\ ; in 1843 again a mathematical

prize of £$ and the Hale Scholarship, amounting to
£g 17:1; in 1844, likewise, a mathematical prize
of ^$ and £6 : 10 : 8 for the Hale Foundation. In

1845 he received numerous small scholarships, the
list being as follows : Gisborne Scholar (half-year),

^15 ; Hale Scholar, £6:10:8; Perne Scholar,
;£1 : 1 2 : 5 ; Parke Scholar, .£4:17:9; Ely the

Scholar, £i : 12 : 5 ; Whitgift Scholar, £\ :5:6;

Woodward Scholar, £3:17:7. Also, under a

College order of Jan. 25, 1845, he received the

no  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                               CHAP.

special prize of £21 on taking his Tripos. These

contributions, however, as we have seen, fell far

short of the expense of maintenance of an under

graduate who took an active part in sports and

festivities of the time. At the College audit of

 1 845 it is also recorded that he paid ^3 : 6 : 8

pro argento, as a Foundation Fellow -- his con

tribution towards the service of plate at the

Fellows' table.

   Once -- in the summer of 1906 -- when Lord
Kelvin was in a chatty mood, I asked him point

blank how it occurred that he was not Senior

Wrangler. His blue eyes lighted up as he pro

ceeded to explain that Parkinson had won princi

pally on the exercises of the first two days, which

were devoted to text- book work rather than to

problems requiring analytical investigation. And
then he added, almost ruefully, " I might have

made up on the last two days, but for my bad

generalship. One paper was really a paper that

I ought to have walked through, but I did very

badly by my bad generalship, and must have got

hardly any marks. I spent nearly all my time on

one particular problem that interested me, about a

spinning-top being let fall on to a rigid plane --a
very simple problem if I had tackled it in the right

way. But I got involved and lost time on and
    I
                                                        I

                                                                                 it,
wrote something that was not good, and there was

no time left for the other questions.  could have

walked over the paper. A very good man Parkin
son-- didn't know him personally at the time --

i,                 CAMBRIDGE                         1n

who had devoted himself to learning how to answer

well in examinations, while I had had, during pre

vious months, my head in some other subjects not

much examined upon -- theory of heat, flow of heat

between isothermal surfaces, dependence of flow on

previous state, and all the things I was learning

from Fourier." Then he went on to explain how

he had had his head in these problems before

coming to Cambridge, and told me he wished he

could find his note-book of the Senior Greek lectures

of his last year at Glasgow, when he was supposed

to be listening to Lushington on the Hippolytus of

Euripides, for the notes would show that he was all

the while working at his ideas on the uniform motion

of heat, and on the Boscovichian idea of force acting

independently of intervening matter. Then he

drifted back to his own early writings on Fourier,

and pulling from the shelf a copy of his Mathe

matical and Physical Papers, vol. pointed to page
                              i.,

                                                         /,
15, where he gave the mathematical inference, as

the result of assigning negative values to the time

that there must have been a creation. "It was," he

continued, " this argument from Fourier that made

me think there must have been beginning. All
                   is
                               I

                                                     a
                                                            is

                                                                                                  .

                                                                                 a
mathematical continuity points to the necessity of
beginning -- this
                   why stick to atoms . . and
they must have been small --smallness a necessity

of the complexity. They may have all been created

as they were, complexity and all, as they are now.

But we know they have a past Trace back the

past, and one comes to beginning --to time zero,
                   a
                                                  a

112  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP, n

beyond which the values are impossible. It's all in
Fourier."

    All through his life Thomson continued to cherish

his youthful enthusiasm for the men who had in
spired him. Fourier and Green in the domain
of mathematical physics, Faraday in that of ex

perimental science, were the Di majores of his

veneration.

        CHAPTER III

POST-GRADUATE STUDIES AT PARIS AND PETERHOUSE

THOMSON'S degree- course at Cambridge having
terminated, he prepared to widen his outlook by
spending some months in Paris. Down to this
date he had never seen Green's Essay? his only
knowledge of it being derived from a curt reference
in a memoir in the Cambridge Transactions by
Murphy, on " Definite Integrals with Physical
Applications." In vain had Thomson searched
the College Library, and inquired at the bookshops
for Green's thin quarto. Pacing "Wranglers'
Walk " with Hopkins on January 25, the evening
before his departure, he mentioned the matter to

    1 Green's remarkable work, An Essay on the Application of Mathematical
Analysis to the Theories of Electricity and Magnetism, a. quarto tract of 72
pages, was printed at Nottingham in 1828 by private subscription. Probably

fewer than one hundred copies were printed, and the work is now exceedingly
rare. In 1850 Thomson sent Green's Essay to be reprinted in full in Crellfs
Journal (vols. xxxix., xliv., and xlvii.), prefixing to it a short introduction,
which has never been included in any of his collections of papers. In this

introduction he mentions a number of independent investigations made by

subsequent authors on the same subject, two by.Chasles, one by Gauss, one

by Sturm, one by Despeyrous, and three of his own. A brief biography

of Green follows, and a list of his contributions to mathematical physics.
    The printer of Grille's Journal, Reimer of Berlin, reprinted the complete
Essay, with Thomson's introduction, in the year 1854.
    Green's Mathematical Works, including the Essay, were collected by

Ferrers, and printed for Caius College in 1871.
Green's Essay, translated into German, was republished in Berlin in 1895
in the series of Ostvtalds Klassiker der exahten Wissenschaften.
VOL. I                                                            I
        113

M4  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                         CHAP.

his tutor, who, to Thomson's joy and surprise, told

him he had at least one copy at his rooms, whither

they repaired. It turned out that Hopkins pos

sessed three copies, two of which he gave to Thom

son, one for himself, the other for Liouville.

Thomson took Green's Essay to France with

him, assimilating its contents with marvellous and

rapid insight, and working out its bearing on the

problems that occupied his brain. Before he had

been a month in Paris he sent to L.\ouv\\\&s Journal

(vol. x. p. 137, 1845) a paper, entitled "Demonstra

tion d'un theoreme d'analyse," which two years later

he expanded in the Cambridge and Dublin Mathe

matical Journal (vol.                          109, March 1847),
    a
                          :
                                  ii.
                                           p.
under the title " On certain Definite Integrals sug

gested by Problems in the Theory of Electricity."
The importance of this investigation will be con

sidered little later.

Thomson was accompanied by his friend Hugh

Blackburn to Paris, which they reached on January

30. They took rooms in the Rue Monsieur
Prince, No. 31, near the Odeon, on the fourth floor.
                                                it
                                                        le
In the heart of the old Quartier latin, before was

cut up by the great Boulevards, their lodging was

conveniently close to the Sorbonne and to the

College de France.                         His note -book bears the

following entry --
I
                                        :
                            RUE M. LE PRINCE 31, PARIS, Feb. 4, 1845.

        am settled here with Blackburn, and we have been
getting to work. We have only heard one lecture yet
(Dumas, on Carbonic Oxide, etc.), as there are holidays

in       POST-GRADUATE STUDIES                 115

for a few days (Mardi gras being to-day). I called on
...Liouville on Friday, Jan. 31, and he received me very
freely.  I have been studying Green's memoirs on

Attraction, and am just beginning to see through them. I

saw his memoir on Electricity for the first time on Satur

day (two days before I left Cambridge), and the same
day I got two copies in a present from Hopkins (one of
which I have given to Liouville), along with several

other memoirs published in the Cambridge Transactions."

    The same day his father wrote :--

         GLASGOW COLL., Feb. 4, 1845.

    MY DEAR WM.-- I am glad you have reached Paris in

safety. You lost the sweets of all our congratulations

about Smith's Prize, as the letters have all been returned

in consequence of your having left Cambridge.  In

addition to them, we have received, at different times,

various other letters of congratulation addressed to you

at Cambridge. Those we have opened lest they should

contain anything requiring immediate attention. These

are from J. B. Smith (Horncastle), Howard Parry, D.

Foggo, Jr., Wm. Walton, Henry M. Fletcher (Oxford),

Gisborne (Berkeley Square, London), Wm. Nixon (I
think it is), Northrepps, who writes at the desire of

Sir Fowell Buxton, who is himself in progress of recovery

from a severe illness, and from John Mitchell (St. Vincent
St., Glasgow). Your success has given great pleasure to

your friends both here and elsewhere.  Cookson and

Hopkins have written in great spirits, and most kindly.

Their letters will very likely be of much use hereafter.

They speak in very strong terms about the completeness

of your victory, and the high opinion expressed by the

examiners regarding your style of answering. . . .

    Sir D. Brewster has promised to give an introduc
tion to Arago, Biot, and Babinet. To the last two

you have introductions already. Shall I send you the

one to Arago, or will you get at him otherwise ?

Kelland has sent one for you to Cauchy, but as you

n6 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

have one already I do not send it. He mentions to

Cauchy the death of his wife, with whom Cauchy and

family must have been acquainted, as he expresses his

trust that she and they will meet in heaven. Say nothing

of this, but be prepared to speak of her, and you can say

that though I just knew her slightly, I thought highly of

her. She died last autumn. Dr. Wm. Thomson says

you should spend your 20 guineas in purchasing books in

Paris, where you will be able to get much for your money,

and he says you should spend much of it in purchasing
books on La Physique Experimental. To the lectures on

this he says you ought to pay the greatest attention, and

is glad Blackburn is with you, and he says you and he

will be able to repeat, as it were, the lectures to one

another in the evening ; and,! above all, he says you should

be writing discourses or lectures in the plainest and most

attractive terms in your power, and improving your

elocution by constant, free, and open practice. I think it

likely he will write you on the subject. He says people

may think you too deep to have popular talent. Do all

in your power to   obviate  thiasndimprreesspseiocnta. biliUtys.e--allI  economy
consistent with    comfort                                                 remain,

your aff. father,           JAMES THOMSON.

     P.S. --You will go to the meetings of the Institute. I

may be able to send you further introductions.

                                        PARIS, RUE M. LE PRINCE, No. 31.it,

                                                                       Feb. 10, 1845.

    MY DEAR FATHER. -- I received your letter on Satur

day with additional introductions. I have not, as yet, had
time to present any of the introductions, as we have had

enough to do to get settled here, in addition to attending
lectures and private reading. To-day Blackburn and I
are going to present an introduction to Elie de Beaumont
which we received from Hopkins, and by which we are to
hear anything we may about lectures, etc., if we wish

     probably get introductions to lecturers whom we may

attend. If he can give us an introduction to Pouillet we

in       POST-GRADUATE STUDIES                                117

shall get it. There has been only one of his lectures yet,

as there were holidays last week (Mardi gras, etc.). We
attended it and found it exceedingly interesting. The

subject was common electricity, which he illustrated

beautifully with his apparatus, which was exceedingly

good and on a very extensive scale. As we know the

subject very well we did not get much new information,

but he is going on to     ele(cFterbor-umaargynet1is1m). --,  which will be
exceedingly interesting.                                      We have also

been attending Dumas' lectures, which are also very

interesting, and exceedingly well illustrated by experi

ments. All the things which are required are prepared

with great care beforehand, so that he has always a great

many experiments to show. There is another lecturer on
" Physique," Regnault, at the College de France. He is

a very young man, but nevertheless I hope to profit by

his lectures. We have only heard one of them, which

was on thermometry. We have also attended a lecture

of Sturm on mechanics, but as he seems merely going

over the mathematical parts with which we are quite

familiar, and as we have very little time to spare, we shall

not go on with them. To-day we commenced attending

a course of lectures of Libri's on elliptic functions, a

subject of which neither of us knows much. We shall

continue attending him as long as we find it profit

able. I called on Liouville, shortly after I arrived here,

with a paper which Cayley had given me to carry

to him.

    We very soon became acquainted, and he began directly

to work with pen and paper at various subjects of conversa

tion, and when I went away he invited me to return again
" pour causer de toutes ces choses."
                                      I called again,
bringing with me another paper which I had received

from Cayley. I found Chasles there, to whom Liouville

presented me, and we had a long conversation on mathe

matical subjects. I had lent Liouville a memoir of

Green's, of which I had received two copies from Hop

kins before I left Cambridge, in which I found that he

(Green) in 1828 had given almost all the general

n8         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                      CHAP.

theorems in attraction which have since occupied Chasles,

Gauss, etc., and I also lent him my copy of the Camb.

Math. Jour., as far as it had appeared, which he wished

to look over. Liouville showed them to Chasles, who

seemed very much struck with both. Liouville asked me to

come and dine with him on Thursday along with Chasles.
    My French is exceedingly bad in conversation, but I

hope it will improve by practice. I am writing at present

a short paper for Liouville, which will also serve for a

French exercise. I shall continue to do so when any

thing appropriate occurs. I have also several subjects on
hand which I am working at whenever I have time, of

which, however, there is very little to spare. . . .

    After I received your letter I bought Pouillet's Traitt

de Physique, of which I had not a copy before, and

besides which has been republished a few months ago,

being now the 4th edition. I have besides renewed my

subs. (30  for the Journal de Mathematiques, and as
I

                       f.)

                            I
have only £,7 left must take care not to spend much

money on books or anything else at present, as would
                                                                     is

                                                                         it I I

                                                                               is
                                                                                         it

                                                                                                 a
not do to be without. The journey here cost, from

Cambridge, between £5 and £6, so that                                           had just £11
when got settled here.                                                          shall have to
I                                                                  am afraid
         I

                  it
                         is

                                                                  ?

                                      It I

                                                        is
wait some time for the Smith's Prize, as                                        often long

time in coming when the University poor. Sometimes

believe    not received.                                             Have you   nsoewe.n--GYroeguorrya'fsf.
                                                                     published
and Walton's book yet

son,                                                                 WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Liouville's friendship meant much to Thomson.;

To him Thomson opened his heart on many of the

deep problems of Geometry and Natural Philosophy
with which he was occupied. The great philoso
phers of the French school of Mathematics were

gone Laplace, Legendre, Poisson, Fresnel were
no longer living. Arago he never met, nor Fizeau,
though the latter lived on nearly half a century

in  POST-GRADUATE STUDIES                            119

afterward. But Biot1 he met, and Cauchy, who

tried hard to convert him to Roman Catholicism,

and Chasles, and Sturm ; also Foucault, of whom

he spoke in terms of admiration.

    One night about three weeks from their arrival,

when Thomson was sitting with Blackburn over a

wood fire in their chilly lodging, eager steps were

heard without, and with a hasty rap upon the door

a panting visitor rushed in. It was Sturm, in a

state of high excitement. " Vous avez le Memoire
de Green," he exclaimed, "M. Liouville me 1'a dit ! "

The Essay was produced, and Sturm eagerly scanned

its contents, turning over page after page. , "Ah!

voila mon affaire," he cried, jumping from his seat

as he caught sight of the formula in which Green

had anticipated his theorem of the equivalent dis

tribution. Prior to this, the work of Green had

been as completely unknown to the French mathe

maticians as it had been at Cambridge. Liouville,

in particular, seems to have been impressed with

the enthusiasm of Thomson, and with the im

portance of the ideas which were fructifying in his

mind as the result of his devotion to Fourier and to

Green. To Liouville he confided his ideas about

electric images, of which more presently ; and to him

he gave for publication the previously -mentioned

cpaarpeefrully(Ddeamtinognstitra"tioPanris,d'luen21  theoreme d'analyse),

                                                     fevrier, 1845." This

habit of dating his researches he observed with

    1 It was the aged Biot who, taking him literally by the hand, introduced
him to Rcgnault.

120 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

scrupulous precision, extending even to the jottings

in his note-books -- a habit which in his later life

became almost an obsession.

                                                 PARIS, RUE M. LE PRINCE 31,

                                                                           Feb. 23, 1845.

    MY DEAR FATHER -- I delayed answering the last

letter I received from home (James's) till I should be
able to tell you about the result of my introductions. I

have now presented all which are to scientific people.

The others I reserve for some time yet, as at present I
have no time for visiting or going out to parties. How
ever, I shall take care to present them before I leave, and
they will, I am sure, be of a great deal of use to me. I
was much obliged to Mr. Crum for his letter to Dumas,
and to Dr. R. D. Thomson for one to Pelouze (whom I
had met at dinner at Liouville's), both of which I presented
without delay. I called on Dumas at his house at the
Jardin des Plantes, and left the letter with a card, as I
did not find him in. I called again next day, but was
still unfortunate ; but on the day after I saw him at his

lecture, and he asked me to call on him next day (yester
day) at eleven o'clock, to have some conversation. When

I went, he asked me about what lectures I wished to
attend, and gave me useful information. He wishes to be
remembered to Mr. Crum the first time I write to Scot
land. He asked me to go to-night, or any Sunday night,
to his " beau-pere," M. Brogniart, when he has a soirde, at
which he (Dumas) and Pouillet (who is a relation), and

other scientific people are generally present.

    I called on Cauchy on Friday (I had previously called,

but was told by the porter that he is only visible on
Friday between 3^ and five) and presented Prof. Forbes's
introduction. When he read the letter he commenced
asking me questions about how much mathematics I had
read, the first being whether I knew the Diffl. Calc.
When he found that I knew enough to be probably able
to understand him, he commenced telling me what he

HI  POST-GRADUATE STUDIES  121

was working at, and various things which he had done,
some of which were very interesting. He gave me two
copies of the paper, which I enclose, one of which he
wished me to send you, in which he gives an account of

a memoir he had presented to the Academy containing a

method as complete as that of Sturm for separating the
roots of equations. From the explanations he gave me,
and from what is contained in the paper, I think his

method must be complete, though it is much more com
plicated than Sturm's. He says that he has since applied
it to the imaginary as well as real roots, but I have not

seen any of the memoirs of which he spoke. I am to go
to his soirees if I choose, given by his " belmere " on

Tuesday evenings.

      I had a letter accompanying two memoirs from De

Morgan to Sturm, which Mr. Ogilby gave me. I did not

find him in, but left a card with the letter and memoirs.

As he had heard from Liouville that I had a copy of
Green's memoir, he called the same day here when I was

out, and left a card, " C. Sturm, Membre de 1'Institut,"

and said he would call again next morning. However,

about ten o'clock the same evening Blackburn and I were
astonished by his entrance. He soon began talking on

mathematical subjects, and did not lose much time in

asking about Green's memoir, which he looked over with

great avidity. When I pointed out to him one thing
which he had himself about a year ago in Liouville's

Journal, he exclaimed, " Ah ! mon Dieu, oui." I have
also seen M. de Blainville, to whom Mr. Ogilby gave me

an introduction, and who was very kind in trying to put
me in the best way of improving my physical state, as I

told him that was my principal object in coming here.
I have also seen Biot, who is the person, as even M. de
Blainville says, for that purpose. He is to introduce me
to Regnault (Prof, along with Biot at the Coll. of Fr.) at
the Institute to-morrow,'who he says is the best physicien

here. If it be possible and advisable for the short time I

am here, I am perhaps to work in his laboratory. The
other people to whom I had introductions (except Elie de

122    LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                             CHAP.

Beaumont, to whom Blackburn and I had an introd. from

Hopkins) were all out, but I shall call again when I have

time.

     I finished my paper yesterday and took it to Liouville,

but as he was not well I could not see him. It is very

short, but as I have had very little time to give to it
each day, I have had it on hands for a considerable

time. We are attending Dumas' and Pouillet's lectures

regularly, and are going also to attend those of Pelouze

and Regnault at the Coll. de France. We are both

much interested with them, and talk over them a good

deal. I take a great many notes on Pouillet especially.

I find I know almost all he says (which is not the case
with Dumas, however), but I mark down the particular

experiments he makes, and how they succeed, and what

seem to be more appreciated by the audience, which is
very numerous, and " popular."

    I have just room enough on this sheet, and time

...enough before going to the soiree, to tell you about
money matters.       I have, besides, spent 16 fr. on

Pouillet's Physique, 30 fr. for Liouville for this year, and
20 fr. for the Comptes rendus for this year, which I receive

every week (two quarto volumes at the end of the year),

and which is necessary      to enable me to know       what  is
going on in the Institute.
                            -- Your affectionate son,

                            WILLIAM THOMSON.

    To his brother Robert, on March 5th, he gave a

further account of his doings.

     My DEAR ROBERT         PARIS, RUE M. LE PRINCE 31.

     On Monday Biot introduced me to Regnault (the
professor of Natural Philosophy at the College de France),
and told me to go to M. Regnault at the end of his

lecture any day, and that he would show me his cabinet

de physique (t.e. apparatus room). I went yesterday,

and after hearing some explanations, which he gave to a

m           POST-GRADUATE STUDIES                             123

number of the students who waited at the end, on the

subject of lecture, he sent his assistant to show me all the

apparatus. I was greatly interested in           A it,  and saw a

great many pretty things, of which they have a great

abundance here, as the Government gives them a great
deal of money for apparatus for popular experiments and

historical illustrations in the lectures.               German (or

rather Swiss,    believe), who had been speaking to
a

      I
                    I

                                     I

                                      if
Regnault along with others, accompanied us, and we had

    good deal of conversation. He had been for some

time working along with Regnault, assisting him, in the

way should like to do,                    possible, and so got as
                                                        aI
much information as could from him on the subject.

There are no pupils working with him, as in chemical

laboratory, and he has a person assisting him at present

(besides the regular prtparateur, who has the same office
as Dan), and so am afraid will not want any more at
                 .
present, and besides, would probably want person of
                   I                                    a
experience. . .
                                                           I
         have no more time to write at present, as have to

go to Dumas's lecture almost immediately. Tell papa
    I
that   Iif  do not get work in Physique, am thinking' on
                                              I

entering Pelouze's laboratory for the time am here.             I
                                                 I

have seen   it,  and am sure              it  would be very useful.

Pelouze has, besides, an essaying laboratory at the mint,
as he holds the office of " directeur des
yesterday he showed me one of the regular               epsrosaceiss,s"es.a--nd

Your affectionate brother,                    WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Thomson was thus brought into contact witha
Victor Regnault, who had short time previously
begun his marvellous series of researches on the

principal laws and numerical data which enter into

calculations upon steam-engines, --researches which
still remain classic amongst the works of experi

mental science. Regnault was a master of the art
of minute and accurate experiment.

124            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                      CHAP.

    The mathematical note-book shows the following
entries :--

    March 7, 1845. -- I have been reading Jacobi's Nova

Fundamenta and Abel's 1st memoir on Elliptic Functions ',

but have been rather idle on the whole. The following

cm"sguoeeNrlniiototatauersyLfoiegcwncahostReneitvnroiiegnbfnsuiotniarcgotensnhrdotagaiotBgnonrouas:lf--ohCrerimyss[soHattelashelreseeornmp"fta--oibclllyso--TcwPuhsorowvlmaeharsisiczodhenord'acswcftuaCrsraooelnfmdpvuteohbrtseot

lished in the enlarged Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical

JourMnaalr,chvol8. .--ini.,1846.]    thinking  on                             spinning  and
                          have been
                 I

rolling again, and speaking to Blackburn on the subject.

[Seven pages of the Mathematics of Bodies in Rotation

here follow.]

       Then he writes to tell of his admission to

       Regnault's laboratory.

                                     PARIS, 31 RUE M. LE PRINCE,
                                     March
                               I                                              1845.
       MY DEAR FATHER --                                                   1
                                                                        6,
                                     received aunt's letter a few

days ago, containing your message about Jerrard's work.
   have not been able to see Liouville yet to tell him, as
it, I I
he has been unwell, but communicated                                          to Sturm
      I                      a I I it
                                 I

                                            I
                                                                 it

                                                                       is
yesterday, who received with great avidity.

         have been looking on at Regnault's work yesterday

and the day before, and offered my services yesterday.

       He seemed to be quite willing to let me come as often as

         choose, and suppose may now and then have a jobI
       in the way of holding tube for him when he sealing

           or working an air-pump, as had the privilege of

doing yesterday.

     The lectures are almost all stopped now in conse
quence of the Easter vacation, and will not commence

       again for fortnight.    have taken the opportunity of
         a

                               I
                                                      I

                                                                                   a
                                                                                           is,

                                                                               I
the intermission to commence taking lessons for short

       time in the cornopean. The teacher have got

in  POST-GRADUATE STUDIES  125

think, as far as I can hear, one of the best in Paris, and

I think I shall be much the better of the lessons. Be

sides, I have the benefit of a tolerable lesson in French
each time I go to him, as he speaks no English, and we

have necessarily a good deal of conversation. The terms
are very nearly the same (a very little less) as Mr.
Hilpert's, in Glasgow.

      Blackburn is going away in about three weeks with a
large party of his family, who are coming here on a short
visit in a fortnight. I shall be here for a month after he
leaves, at beginning of which time I shall present my

introductions to the haute socicti. Blackburn had an intro

duction to some very desirable people in the fashion
able world, but he has not presented it yet, and will not
do so at all, I think, though I was commissioned by one
of his brothers to make him present it.

      I see Cauchy very often, and when I call on him he

always has a great deal to say, and tells me what he is
working at, and all the fine things he is discovering. He
has either one or two memoirs for the meeting of the

Institute every week.
     The reason I have not followed the plan you recom

mended of making a journal is that I have already two
regular journals going on containing everything of the
kind you mention. One of these is my note-book, which
contains a register of all the lectures, etc., that I attend ;
and another, my mathematical journal, in which I put
down everything I am working at, and anything else that
may be interesting. In my letters to you I have space
enough to put down everything of any interest in the
way of news, and I daresay a great deal more. For the

last week there has been nothing particular to tell about.
There have been rather fewer lectures, but otherwise we

have been just as usual, and read in the evenings, as
before, with the exception of two evenings, one of which
we went to the comic opera to hear " Fra Diavolo," and

another to the Italian, to hear "II Barbiere," either of

which, if we had missed hearing, we should probably not
have had an opportunity of hearing again, and I think

126 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

nothing else we could have heard would be so good of
its kind.

    At that date there was no provision made in the
University of Paris -- or, indeed, in any other uni
versity--for the systematic teaching of physics in a

properly organized physical laboratory. So Thom
son must take his part in the research work which
Regnault had in hand. In the investigation then
proceeding upon the density of gases,1 two large
glass globes, one filled with gas, the other empty,
were weighed against one another. Thomson's
chief work in the laboratory was to work the air-
pump when Regnault gave the command to make

the vacuum. At another stage he was given charge

of the operation of stirring the water in a calori
meter in which determinations of latent heat were

being made.

    At that time Regnault had, as assistants or

pupils, several men destined to make their names
known in physics : Izarn, Bertin, Grassi, Bertrand,
Lissajous, and Silbermann.

    The mathematical diary again tells of the day's
doings :--

    March --1 5. I am occupied the whole day in Reg-

nault's physical laboratory at the College de France.

At spare times I have been reading Poisson's memoirs
on Electricity, which I find among the Memoirs of the
Institute in Regnault's cabinet. I have applied my

     1 See Regnault's paper, "Determination du poids du litre d'air et de la
densite du mercure," Ann. chim. phys., serie 3, torn. xv. p. 348 ; and
Relation des experiences, torn. i. p. 154.

m            POST-GRADUATE STUDIES                                                     127

ideas on induction in spheres and the principle of suc

cessive influence, and get a very simple solution, in the

form Poisson gives  for two spheres.                                                think can
   it                                                                               I

          a

            i
                                it,

                                                                      .

                                                  is
                                                             a

                                                           I
work out for spheres. . . The image of an exterior

point, in conducting sphere,  p. in the interior, with

opposite electr.
   March 27, 1845. -- .
                              Yesterday called again on
                         .
                             .

                                              I

Liouville at 12 (when MM. Regnault and Izarn were at

breakfast).

    He stayed four hours discussing Faraday's
objections to the theory of electrical action at
distance and Liouville engaged him to write a
memoir for the Institute answering them.
   ;

                                                                                  a

    James Thomson was delighted that his son
was engaged on experimental work, and wrote to

encourage him --
   I
                                          :

                                   it

                                                                              a
        think that were only to hold tube or work an

air-pump, you should by all means go on in Regnault's
cabinet. You will see what instruments he has, and you
should take lists of them as far as you can. Besides,

certificates from him, Pouillet, Dumas, etc., with reference
to practical matters might serve you much.

    Neither the diary nor the letters mention the                                ;
visits of Thomson and Blackburn with Edward

Armitage to his brother's studio in Paris, or their
little Bohemian dinners with Armitage's artist
friends in the unconventional surroundings of the

Quartier latin.
    Blackburn was about to leave Paris and Thom

son had agreed to return in May to assist Fuller in
Peterhouse examinations. He wanted meantime to
fulfil his promise to Liouville, and wrote home for

books.

128       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                          CHAP.

                      PARIS, RUE MONSIEUR LE PRINCE 3 1 .
                      ...Sunday, March 30, 1845.
MY DEAR FATHER. --           I should like to buy Bec-
querel's Electricity if I can afford it
It has been a very successful plan for me going to

Regnault's laboratory. I always get plenty to do, and

Regnault speaks a great deal to me about what he is

doing, and has of late employed me in working, along

with him, some of the formulas necessary for the reduction
of the experiments. Besides, I have access to all the

books he has there, including all the Memoirs of the

Institute, the Annales de chimie et de physique, and a

great many elementary physical works, of which

advantage I have made extensive use. I sometimes

go to the laboratory as early as 8 in the morning,

and seldom get away before 5, and sometimes not till

6. I generally breakfast before I go, and so have the

time free when Regnault and M. Izarn, his assistant, go

to breakfast. On Thursday I made use of that time by

going to see Liouville (at 12 A.M., for the French
breakfast very late), whom I found recovered, as he said,

from his illness. He did not let me away till 4^, as he

had a great many things to speak about, besides, work

ing a good deal, and reading the Nova Comm. Petr. through.

He asked me to write a short paper for the Institute,

explaining the phenomena of ordinary electricity observed

by Faraday, and supposed to be objections fatal to the

mathematical theory. I told Liouville what I had

always thought on the subject of those objections (i.e.

that they are simple verifications), and as he takes a

great interest in the subject, he asked me to write a

paper on  and said he would get            translated
          it,                I                         if
                                       it                I
                  it
choose to write in English.  should be obliged to

you you could get John, or any careful person who has
     if

time, to make list of all the papers or notes, with dates
          a

and refce by volume (not very numerous) of Faraday
on the subject of common (statical) electricity, including
those of Snow Harris, which have been published in the

Philosophical Transactions or in the Phil. Mag. have seen
                                           I

in           POST-GRADUATE STUDIES                                                                            129

a collection of Faraday's in his Experimental Researches on

Electricity, but he has published something (at least some
notes) since. What I am most anxious about is to hear
whether there is anything on the subject within the last six

months, and whether there is anything except in the Phil.
Trans, or Phil. Mag. Arago, it seems, has recently heard

of Faraday's objections, and the uncertainty thus thrown on

the theory prevented, as Liouville told me, its being made
the subject for the mathematical prize of the Institute

this year, and instead of it Abelian functions have been

proposed. However, as Poisson before he died wished

Liouville to do anything he could for                 think will
          a

                 it

                                                     1

                                                                       it,
                                                                   I

                                                               if
                                                                  I

                                                                                  it
very likely be proposed again. Liouville said he would lend

me Chasles' Precis historique de la gtomltrie                                                              would

go back for again.           went yesterday, and he worked
through memoir of Jacobi's with me. -- Your affectionate
son, WILLIAM THOMSON.

    His sister, Anna Bottomley, has read his letters
from Paris, and on April writes in a bantering tone
                             I2                                                                                            a:
srepteuarkni,negxwpebitcrhot kteonFrefiEnnncdhgilfyiiseohdu--qaumnitadennwaeerasFrr--ienngclahcminnagince  wtihgehntlyy--ou
    .I                           .
                                           .                                                                becoming
           is
                       a                    a
                                              is

                                                          !
moustache and dark blue trousers. . You do not tell

me what sort of young lady Mdlle. Dumas                                                                    Beware of

the captivating Parisienne.      shall long very much to see

you when you return to England, and you must arrange

to pay us                 visit as soon as possible.         have had
                                                      I

                                                                  is
letter from Margt. Crum this morning. She                                                                  going

to Germany for the summer with her father, and will

spend good part of her time with Liebig.

    Then his father puts in word of sage advice --
                          a
                                  a

                                                                                                          :
    . . Do not spend         sixpence unnecessarily. Dr.

W. T. much pleased to hear that you have got fairly

into Regnault's cabinet, and hopes you will be able to

get a good testimonial from him and others, also one

from Dumas and others regarding your knowledge of

    VOL.  I                                                                                                K

130          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                      CHAP.

Physique, and showing that you are not merely an
expert x-plus-y man. He still says you should try to

get practice in the mere manipulations, so as to acquire
expertness in the mechanical operations.

    Again the diary shows how dynamical notions

are shaping his ideas about electricity :--

   April 8, 1 845. -- To-day, in the laboratory (of Physique
at the Coll. de France, M. Regnault, Prof.), I got the idea,

which gives the mechanical effect necessary to produce
any given amount of free electricity, on a conducting or

non-conducting body. If m is any electrical element, v

the potential of the whole system upon the mechanical
                             it,                       Zmv. If
                                       is
effect necessary to produce the distribution

the body be conducting this exp" becomes z>M. This

enables us to find the attraction or repulsion of two influ

encing spheres without double integrals. Also the
                             minim, when v const.,
theorem of Gauss that ~2,mv  is
                                a
                                                                  is

shows how the double int1 which occurs when we wish to

express the action directly, may be transformed into the

diff. co. of simple int1 taken with reference to the-dist0*
          a

between the two spheres.     . This has confirmed my
                             .
                                 .

                                                           if
                                                                    I
resolution to commence experimental researches, ever

make any, with an investigation of the absolute force of
statical electricity. As yet each experimenter has only

compared intensities by the devns of their electrometer.

They must be measured by pounds on the square inch, or

by "atmospheres."  Also the standard must be the

greatest intensity which can be retained by air of given

density.

    Then he replies to his father's suggestion about

testimonials --
             :

                                          is

                                                    I
... As       matters have     PARIS, 31 RUE M. LE PRINCE,
                                        April 14, 1845.

                             turned out, having got my

degree before the situation  vacant, shall be able to

get ^testimonials from the four examiners for the Smith's

in            POST-GRADUATE STUDIES             131

Prize, as well as from Cookson and Fuller, at Cambridge,

and here probably from Liouville and Regnault, and I

think that it would now do more harm than good to ask

for any from people who do not know me, or who are not

in the way of science. I suppose if there is not a vacancy

before October, David Thomson will be appointed again,
and if so I shall continue at Cambridge taking a few

pupils to support myself, and working as much as pos

sible. I have been planning some experimental investiga

tion in electricity, which, however, I could not commence

till I have accurate apparatus at my command, as it is
precise measurements I wish to make.

    James would probably be interested to hear of the

things Regnault is doing, as he is working at present, or

rather about to continue some investigations on the latent

heat of steam, and its pressure at high temperatures, for

which he has been employed by Government. For this

he has a tower erected by which he can measure, with

mercury, a pressure of 36 atmospheres, and he is
just getting his arrangements completed to commence the

experiments. He has already made them on steam up to

6 atmospheres, which James will see described in the
Annales de chimie et de physique. Besides this, Regnault
is making " for his own amusement " researches on

hygrometrie, part of which I think has been published. I

am now regularly employed, and work regularly helping

him, the   other assistant being employed   in   graduating
tubes for  the experiments on steam. . .        Your affec
                                           .--

tionate son,  WILLIAM THOMSON.

                                                PARIS, RUE M. LE PRINCE 31,
                                                     April 26, 1845.

    MY DEAR FATHER -- I got my paper on Electricity

finished yesterday. I wrote it myself in French, and got
M. Izarn at the laboratory to look it over. I left it at
Liouville's house, but I have not seen him, and so do not

know what he will do with it.
     The regular work at the laboratory will be broken in

upon next week by the preparations for the experiments

132         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                             CHAP.

on high pressure steam, and I shall have a little more
time free than usual, which I shall require to prepare

...examination papers. . . .
             I am going this evening to try and see Dumas
at M. Brogniart's. I have called several times in the

forenoon at his own house, but have not found him in. I

still intend to start  on Saturday or  MMoanyda/yt,h.s--o  as to
arrive in Cambridge     on Wednesday,
                                                           Your

affectionate son,      WILLIAM THOMSON.

How fertile Thomson's brain had been while he

was in Paris his diary shows. His rapid assimila

tion of Green's neglected work, and the memoirs

actually wrought into shape while under the inspira

tion of the hour, attest not only his own mental

agility, but the greatness of the forgotten mathe

matical genius.

But before Thomson left Paris he had another

forgotten hero to rehabilitate. Doubtless inspired

thereto by the work proceeding in Regnault's labora

I £tory, he had been reading Clapeyron's paper1 in the
Journal de         cole Polytechnique, vol. xiv., 1834,
entitled " Mdmoire sur la puissance motrice du feu,"

in which Clapeyron, a pupil trained in the great

school of French mathematics, expounded the now

famous doctrine familiar to every engineer under the

name of Carnot's Cycle. Sadi Carnot,2 a young

French engineer, had in 1824 published8 a short

1 A translation appeared in the first volume of Taylor's Scientific Memoirs,

1837, P- 347-
    2 Sadi Carnot (born 1796, died 1832) was the son of the more famous

Lazare Carnot, the "organizer of victory," one of Napoleon's generals.
Another son, Hippolyte Carnot, subsequently edited his brother's tract.
Sadi Carnot was uncle of the late President of the French Republic.
    3 This essay is exceedingly rare, very few copies having been printed.  It

might have remained quite unknown but for Clapeyron's paper and Thomson's

in           POST-GRADUATE STUDIES                                                  133

 tract entitled Reflexions sur la puissance motrice du

feu et sur les machines propres a d&velopper cette
puissance. The perusal of this memoire incited

Thomson to refer to the original tract of Carnot.
In vain did he inquire for it in the Library of the

College de France. No one could tell him even

where a copy might be seen. But a copy he must
have, even if he searched all Paris to find it. Years

afterwards he narrated 1 how in 1845, when in Paris,

he sought in vain for this work. He even wandered

around amongst the old book-stalls on the quays of

the Seine. Of Lazare Carnot and his works on

fortification, and of Hippolyte Carnot's tracts on

political and social affairs they knew, but not even

of the name of Sadi Carnot.                      This is Thomson's

own account of the matter :--

    I went to every book-shop I could think of, asking for
the Puissance motrice du feu, by Carnot. " Caino ? Je
ne connais pas cet auteur."                       With much difficulty     I man
aged to explain that it was                      " r " not " i " I meant.   " Ah !

Ca-rrr-not ! Oui, voici son ouvrage," producing a volume

on some social question by Hippolyte Carnot ; but the

Puissance motrice du feu was quite unknown.

    Not until the end of the year 1848 did he see the
book, a copy of it being sent him by Professor
Lewis Gordon. But of this more hereafter.

    Thomson returned to Cambridge after a residence

subsequent advocacy. It was reprinted in 1872 in the Annales de t&cole
Normale, tom. i.                                                                     it had
hitherto remained  p"p.pr3e9s3q-u4e57    ; the   editor stating in a footnote that  with a
                                       inedit."
                                                   It was republished in 1878,
biographical notice. It was translated into English by the late Professor

Thurston, in 1890, and is published by Macmillan and Co.

   1 The Fortnightly Review, March 1892, in an article "On the Dissipation

of Energy."

134 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

of about four and a half months in Paris. He

plunged at once into work as assistant-examiner in

his College, and began to take pupils to coach in

mathematics. His father writes him about the pro

jects for removing the Glasgow College to a new

site, and about the struggle for the abolition of tests
and the Bill then in Committee. There is also talk

of Dr. James Thomson being invited to take the
post of Principal of the new Queen's College at
Belfast ; which his son does not approve. When

he was eventually offered merely the Vice-Principal-

ship he promptly declined
is
In June came the British Association meeting at
             I
                    inCambridge. Amongst those present was Faraday,

                     Iwhose acquaintance Thomson made, and Joule (then
an unknown young man), whom he did not meet,
                                      p.
                                     II I

                                               a it.
                                                              it,
                                                           it
                                                                    a
                                                                      I

                                                                     it
however. Thomson read paper to which reference

made later (see                  144). Scarcely was over

when Thomson had great news to send home.

                                       ST. PETER'S COLLEGE,

                                                       Jun. 28, 1845.

MY DEAR FATHER -- have been elected Foundation

Fellow this morning, very much contrary to my expecta

tions this day week when became candidate. You must

know very well how glad am of and so need not

s--ayYoanuyr  more.  hope you    have  had a pleasant journey.

              affectionate son,        WILLIAM THOMSON.

    His father replied congratulating him on the

Fellowship, adding an autobiographical note: "At

your age was teaching eight hours day."
    The Fellowship was worth about £200 per annum,

with rooms College. He held till September

m  POST-GRADUATE STUDIES  135

 1852, when he vacated it by his marriage; but on
Oct. 29, 1872, he was re-elected a Fellow of his

College, under Statute 22 of the College Statutes

of 1860, which enabled the College to elect eminent
men to the unusual privilege of a life -Fellowship
notwithstanding marriage. For the last dozen years
of his life he returned to the College £100 of the
annual dividend of his Fellowship.

    On July 9, 1845, his brother-in-law, Dr. David

King, then newly returned from Geneva, wrote to
Mrs. King: --

    I went express this morning from London to see

William, and have just returned to the metropolis. . . .
Suffice it now to express the joy with which I learned
from William that he has already got a Fellowship and a
number of pupils ! He has all the appearance of being
destined to fill a very exalted place in the estimation and,
I may add, in the affection of his age and country.

    Thomson was apparently concerned about his

father's health, for on June 28 he writes to his
aunt, Mrs. Gall :--

    I think if I was to succeed in getting the Professorship
of 'Nat. Phil, that we could easily manage together to get
the business of both classes done, even when he may not

wish to work so hard as he has done hitherto.

    Thomson adds that he is much occupied with his
pupils and with a quantity of correspondence about

getting the Mathematical Journal going on an en

larged scale. Ellis, in fact, decided to resign the
editorship to Thomson, who now assumed full con
trol of the publication to which hitherto he had

contributed over the signatures of "P.Q.R. " or

136  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

" N.N." Letters from Boole, Sylvester, Sir William

Rowan, Hamilton, and others, still preserved, show

his activity in engaging new contributors to the

venture, which henceforth, and until merged in the

Quarterly Journal of Mathematics, was known as
the Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal.
He himself began at once to prepare fresh matter for
its pages. He began a new volume of the private

mathematical note-books, and its contents show

great activity from July 4 to the end of August.
He fills seven pages with integrals of the attractions

between electrified planes and spheres. On July 12

he suddenly conceives the idea that the perme

ability of soft iron in magnetism, and the specific
inductive capacity of sulphur and other media in

electrostatics, play the same part in the respective

mathematical theories as conductivity does in the

theory of heat.  On August 18 occurs the following

entry :--

     I have been a good deal occupied for some time with

my pupils, and with making up my paper on the elementy-
laws of electricity for the Journal, and have not had much
time to work. I have, however, got an immense addition
of light on the subject of dist" of electy [on] spheres and
planes since the beginning of last week.

    This led to the development of the principle of
electric and magnetic " images," and the analogy of
them with the optical problem of the kaleidoscope.
His training in physical thought was fructifying

fast. If he had left Cambridge an accomplished

mathematician he returned as an enthusiastic

in  POST-GRADUATE STUDIES  137

physicist ; and the communications which he made
during the next few years dealt with the applications
of mathematical analysis to Physics, and especially

to Electricity.

    To make clearer what was the substance of

Thomson's contribution to the abstract science of

Electricity during the transition period of his career,
it is necessary to make some digression as to
the state of things in the immediately preceding

period.

    The attractions between electrified bodies had

been examined at various times in order to discover

the laws which govern them ; and the distribution
of an electric charge standing in equilibrium on a
conductor of any form had been investigated both
experimentally and theoretically. The complications

arising in any experimental disposition from the

interfering effects of the induced charges produced

by influence in neighbouring conductors, had, how
ever, been such as to render the processes of measure
ment, for the comparison of fact with theory, very

crude. It had long been considered probable that
the force of attraction (or repulsion, according to
the signs of the charges) between two elementary
quantities of electricity would conform to a law
similar to that which Newton demonstrated to be

the fundamental law of gravitation, namely, that it
should vary inversely as the square of the distance
between them. And, indeed, as this is the funda

mental law which is necessarily true for actions
that radiate from points, it should hold as good for

138  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                CHAP.

electricity as for light or sound, provided the electric

charges should be effectively concentrated so as to

act from definite centres, 'as, for example, in the

case of two charges upon insulated spheres that

should be small as compared with the distance

between them. Cavendish had (in 1771) indeed
demonstrated to a high degree of approximation

that the electric force between two such elements

of electric charge varied inversely as the square of

the distance between them, but his main researches

remained unpublished till much later. In France

Coulomb (1786-87) had with minute care experi
mented, and applied calculation to show how exactly

this law of force was verified by the experiments.
As to the nature of electricity itself, Du Fay had

proposed a two-fluid hypothesis, and Franklin a

one-fluid hypothesis, both of which were compatible

with the facts of experiment. The progress made

in the application of theory down to the epoch

under consideration was recorded by Whewell in
his " Report to the British Association I on the

Present Condition of the Mathematical Theories of

Electricity, Magnetism, and Heat."  His brief

summary is as follows :--

     Electricity, after being brought under distinct concep
tions by Franklin and his contemporaries, was formed into
a mathematical science by yEpinus ; the theory of ^Epinus
was reformed by Coulomb ; the calculations which Coulomb

could not execute, Poisson in our own time has performed :
such are the main steps in the history of electricity as a

mathematical science.

     1 Report of B.A. meeting at Dublin in 1835, p. I.

in  POST-GRADUATE STUDIES  139

    Amongst the matters considered by Coulomb
was the distribution of electric charges upon two
spheres in contact. He obtained approximate solu

tions to these problems by indirect geometrical
considerations of restricted generality, which he
applied with ingenuity, comparing the result of his

calculations with experimental observations, substi
tuting a two-fluid theory for the single-fluid theory

of ^Epinus. Poisson's advance consisted in finding

more general solutions by direct analytical methods,
in particular, by the use of spherical harmonics, or,
as they were formerly called, " Laplace's coefficients."
Non-mathematical readers may gather a faint idea

of the root notion of this method by the following
rough illustration from the attraction exercised by a
shell of matter upon a unit of matter placed at some
point outside it. Let the shell be considered of
variable thickness, distributed over a sphere accord
ing to any given law, but symmetrically with respect
to some axis of the sphere ; while the position of
the point is given in terms of its distance from the

centre, and its angular distance from the stated axis.

Then the attraction exercised by the shell upon the
unit of matter at the given point can always be

expressed, by certain complicated integrations, in
terms depending only upon the position of the
point and on the law of the thickness of the stratum.

This attraction may then be resolved into a series
of terms or particular solutions ; each such term

containing two factors, one dependent only on the
position, the other on the thickness. The power of

140  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

the method for dealing with problems of attraction
and of distribution depend on this resolution into
terms, and on the mathematical properties of the
factors. It can be extended to ellipsoids and other
geometrical figures. Such was the analytical method
by which Poisson was able to deduce in the form of
a functional equation, to be solved by means of
definite integrals, the distribution of electricity over

two spheres ; and it sufficed also to explain why, as

an electrified sphere is brought near to an un-
electrified one, a spark should pass between them.

Poisson's theories confirmed Coulomb's experiments.
But new experiments had been made by Snow

Harris1 with his "unit jar," and by Faraday,2 who
had discovered that in all the cases of electric attrac

tion, and of influence between bodies at a distance

from one another, the action is dependent on the
specific nature of the medium or "dielectric."
Poisson's theory had stopped short without account
ing for this, and indeed left unsolved many of the
problems of the distribution of electricity in equi

librium. " It might be worth while," said Whewell
in 1835, "for some new Poisson to examine the
rest of Mr. Harris's results." The " new Poisson "

was not long in appearing.
     For precisely at this stage Thomson, fresh from

his own discovery of the similarity between the
surfaces of electrical equilibrium and the isothermal
 surfaces in the flow of heat, stepped into the field.

    1 Sir Win. Snow Harris, " On some Elementary Laws of Electricity,"

 Phil. Trans., 1834.
      2 Experimental Researches, eleventh series, arts. 1161 to 1306.

in  POST-GRADUATE STUDIES  141

He absorbed with instant appreciation the funda

mental theorems of Green, some of which, as we

have seen, he had discovered for himself. He

eagerly seized upon Green's physico-geometrical
notion of a potential function. He was now to

demonstrate, with many interesting applications to

actual problems, that, by the light of the potential

theory, the elementary laws established by Coulomb

were not inconsistent with the discovery of Faraday

that the electric forces between bodies were de

pendent on the nature of the intervening medium.
     In the paper which Thomson sent to Liouville's

Journal on his arrival in Paris, he was considering

the problem of the distribution of electricity on an
infinitely extended plane subject to the influence of

an electric charge situated at a neighbouring point.
This he perceived to be mathematically connected

with the kindred problem respecting the flow of
heat with reference to a body bounded in one
direction by an infinite plane. The demonstration

given in the first part (sent to Liouville in February
 1845) was effected by a method suggested by Green ;
the analysis in the second part (published only in

1847) led to formulae that would occur by following
the method of Fourier ; the third part (sent to
Liouville in October 1845) was an evaluation by a
direct process of reduction that had been suggested
to Thomson by the beautiful geometrical conception
of electric images.

    It was at this period also that Thomson set him

self to prepare a series of articles on the Mathematical

I42  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                        CHAP.

Theory of Electricity in Equilibrium, intended,

as he himself stated, to be printed in the Cambridge

and Dublin Mathematical Journal. The earliest of

these to appear, though second in logical order, was

communicated       to    Liouville's Journal1   under the
title, " Note sur   les                         1'electricite
                          lois elementaires de

statique." This article begins by a reference to

Coulomb's experimental work on the distribution of

electricity, and on electrostatic attractions and re

pulsions, and to the theorems in Green's Essay as

completing the elements of Coulomb's Theory. He

then refers to Snow Harris's experiments and to

Faraday's work on the modifying effect of the

dielectric medium. Faraday, who had rejected the

notion of action at a distance, and regarded all

electrical forces as being propagated by the action

of contiguous particles, had, ten years before, de

monstrated that the electric capacity of a conductor

was augmented by surrounding it with sulphur or

resin in place of air. In one of his most elegant

experiments he constructed two equal spherical

condensers, each consisting of a metal globe sur

rounded by a larger concentric envelope of metal.

If in both instruments the space between the inner

and outer globes was full of air, their capacities
were equal ; and if either of them was charged and

then made to share its charge with the other, it

was found that the charge divided itself equally

between them, each taking half of the original

charge. But this was no longer so if one of them

                         1 Vol. x. p. 209.

in  POST-GRADUATE STUDIES  143

was filled with a solid or liquid dielectric in place
of air. Moreover, his observation that the inductive

action between electrified bodies takes place usually

in curved lines was supposed to conflict with the
theory of Coulomb. Thomson now argued that

there was no real conflict, but that the theory of
electric distribution might be regarded equally truly

from two different standpoints. Starting from the
laws that Coulomb had deduced, and applying the
analytical methods of Laplace and Poisson, it could

be shown --as he himself had shown in 1841 --that

every problem of electric distribution is identical
with a corresponding problem relative to the flow
of heat in solids, which is unquestionably a case

of the action of contiguous particles. If one sup

poses a solid dielectric medium to be replaced by
one, itself of the same properties as the air, but
containing uniformly distributed a vast number of

small conducting spherules, -- a hypothesis similar to
that made by Poisson in his theory of the magnetism
of soft iron, --the influence of the dielectric would

be perfectly explained. When he came to rewrite
this part of his paper, in November, for the Cam
bridge Journal, he amplified this part, pointing out
that every portion, however small, of a dielectric
subjected to electrical influence possesses polarity,
and therefore the laws which Poisson had deduced
for magnetic polarity might be generalized, without
resorting to any mechanical hypothesis, to include
a mathematical theory of electrical influence. He
accepts without comment Faraday's view that gases

144 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

cannot be so polarized, though more recent re

search has now shown that such an effect exists.

When Faraday, in the twenty-sixth series of his

Experimental Researches in 1850, returned to this
subject, he had grasped the conception of a medium
being possessed of a " conducting power " for lines
of force, whether magnetic or electric. But this
notion was identical with the analogy which had
guided Thomson's thoughts since 1841.

    To the British Association, which met in Cam

bridge in 1845 from June 21 to 28, Thomson
contributed a paper1 indicating a solution to the
problem of calculating the mutual attraction between
two electrified spherical conductors. From the pub
lished abstract it is clear that this paper went

largely over the same ground as that communicated

to Liouville's Journal, but it included, inter alia,
the remark that Snow Harris's observations of the
striking distance of an electric spark between two
charged conductors afforded, within certain rough
limits of accuracy, an absolute standard of "electri
cal intensity." At the end of the paper he returned
to the point, calling attention to the establishment of
a standard of intensity as an object for experimental
research, and suggesting a standard case. He also
observes that if the laws of Coulomb are assumed,
then "by very simple analysis first given by Green,
we arrive at the laws of Faraday as theorems."

   1 Brit. Assoc. Report, 1845, Proceedings of Sections, p. n, "On the

Elementary Laws of Statical Electricity."
     Thomson was present in person, on June 23, to read this paper, and,

according to the Cambridge Chronicle of June 28, at its conclusion Professor

J. D. Forbes complimented the author.

in          POST-GRADUATE STUDIES     145

The paper also includes the following remarkable
paragraph which has not been reprinted in any of
Lord Kelvin's collected volumes :--

     There are, besides, some remarkable questions relative
to the physical state of dielectrics, which present them
selves as objects for experimental inquiry. Thus it may

be conceived that a dielectric in motion might present

properties analogous to those discovered by Arago in
magnetism, and exhibited in his experiment of the re
volving disc. As however a very distinct element, that
of electrical currents, enters in the latter case in a way
which could probably have no analogy in the former, it
could hardly be expected that any remarkable agreement
of the phenomena presented by the bodies in motion

should be found to exist.

     Another question, which can only be decided by
experiment, is whether a transparent dielectric in a highly

polarized state affects light transmitted in the same manner
as a uniaxal crystal.1

    All analogy would certainly lead us at least to look

for such an action in a plate of glass in which the
particles are kept in a constrained state by means of
opposite electrical charges in the two faces, especially
when we consider that the constraint may be elevated to

such an extent as to make the substance be on the point
of cracking.

    The first of these paragraphs shows that Thomson

foresaw some such effects as those investigated

thirty-five years later by Rontgen, and the possi
bility of dielectric hysteresis. The second is a
prevision of the " Kerr effect" discovered in 1876,

and fruitlessly sought by Faraday. After the

reading of Thomson's paper Faraday had some

    "1 Since this paper was read the author has found that Mr. Faraday had

previously proposed and examined experimentally the question here suggested,

arriving only at negative results. See Experimental Researches, § 955."
                                   L
    VOL. I

146       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN,                  CHAP.

talk with him, and a month later sent him a memoir

of Avogadro.       Thomson replied in the following

letter :--

                               ST. PETER'S COLLEGE, August 6M, 1845.

DEAR SIR -- I beg to thank you for your kindness in

sending me the Italian memoir which you mentioned to
me when I saw you here. I have to apologise for not

acknowledging it before, but I did not wish to write till I

could say something on the contents, as you were so

good as to ask for my opinion. I shall return it to you

almost without delay.

The memoir is entirely occupied with the determina

tion of the distribution of electricity on two equal spheres,

in contact, which had been examined experimentally by

Coulomb, and calculated mathematically by Poisson

according to the general theory of Coulomb. The

hypothesis which M. Avogadro makes is that the inten

sity of electricity at any point of the surface of an

electrified conductor is proportional to the portion of sky

which can be seen from the point projected orthographi-

cally upon the tangent plane at the point, or, as he

          to the sum of all the portions of
stated  it,                                  a  large
          it
spherical surface, described round the two spheres, eachis

multiplied by the cosine of the obliquity of the direction

in which           seen. Thus the two spheres were black,
                        is
and were exposed to a sky uniformly bright in every
                           if
direction, above and below (as might be produced by
laying them on perfect mirror, placed horizontally), the
                   a

intensity of electricity at any point of either would be

proportional to the quantity of light which would be

received by small, white piece of paper laid upon thea
surface at the point. You will readily from this conceive

whether the hypothesis  even analogous in any respect

to the actual physical conditions of the problem. The

numerical determinations differ very widely indeed from

the measurement of Coulomb, but the differences are

attributed by M. Avogadro to his having neglected the

curvature of the lines of inductive action. For an

in  POST-GRADUATE STUDIES  147

experimental investigation of the curved line of induc
tion, he refers to your eleventh series. The only numbers
which he gives are the ratios of the intensities at 30°
and 60° from the point of contact, to the intensity at
90° (which latter he, of course, on account of his hypo
thesis, finds to be the same for all of the unopposed
hemispheres). For these ratios he finds '6 and -95.
Coulomb's measurements give '2 1 and '80 ; Poisson's
calculations '17 and '74. The measurements are, as
Coulomb himself considers, very uncertain, and may
differ considerably from the truth on account of the

excessively delicate and precarious nature of his most

difficult experiments.
     I am at present engaged in preparing a paper, of

which I read an abstract at the late meeting of the
British Association, for the first number of the Cambridge
and Dublin Mathematical Journal (a continuation of the
Cambridge Mathematical Journal}, of which a principal

object is to show that in all ultimate results relative to

distribution, and to attraction or repulsion, it agrees

identically with a complete theory based on your views.

If my ideas are correct, the mathematical definition and

condition for determining the curved lines of induction in

every possible combination of electrified bodies are very
readily expressible. The distribution of force (or in
Coulomb's language, of electrical intensity) on a con
ductor of any form may be determined by purely geo
metrical considerations, after the form of the curved lines

has been found. Thus, let A be an electrified conductor,

placed in the interior of a chamber, and let S be the
interior surface of the walls, which we may consider as
conducting. The lines of induction will of course be

curves, leaving the surface of A at right angles, and

terminating at S, cutting it also at right angles. By

means of these lines let any portion a of A be projected

on S, giving a corresponding portion s. The quantity
of electricity produced by induction on s will be exactly

equal in amount, but of the opposite kind, to that on a,

according to your theory (or according to Coulomb's, as

148  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

follows from a general theorem on attraction). If now
we suppose S to be a very large sphere, having A at its
centre (and it may be shown that the distribution on A
will be very nearly the same as if this were the case,
provided every portion of S be very far from A, whatever

the form of S), the distribution of the induced electricity

on A will be very nearly uniform. Hence the problem
of the determination of the distribution on A is reduced

to the purely geometrical problem of the determination of
the ratio of the s to a. The great mathematical difficulty
is the determination of the form of the lines, when curved,

as they will always be, except when A is a sphere. In
some cases, as, for instance, when A is an ellipsoid, then

the curved lines are found with great ease. In other
cases, such as that of the mutually influencing spheres,

the problem admits of an exceedingly simple solution if

attacked from another direction.

    It was from the connection with the mathematical

theory of Heat (Mathematical Journal, vol. iii. p. 75) that
I was first able to perceive the relation which the lines of

inductive action have to the mathematical theory.

    I have long wished to know whether any experiments

have been made relative to the action of electrified bodies

on the dielectrics themselves, in attracting them or repel

ling them, but I have never seen any described. Any

attraction which may have been perceived to be exercised

upon a non-conductor, such as sulphur, has always been

ascribed to a slight degree of conducting power. A

mathematical theory based on the analogy of dielectrics

to soft iron would indicate attraction, quite independently
of any induced charge (such, for instance, as would be

found by breaking a dielectric and examining the parts
separately). Another important question is whether the

air in the neighbourhood of an electrified body, if acted
upon by a force of attraction or repulsion, shows any
signs of such forces by a change of density, which, how
ever, appears to me highly improbable. A third question
which, I think, has never been investigated is relative to
the action of a transparent dielectric on polarized light.

in         POST-GRADUATE STUDIES               149

Thus it is known that a very well defined action, analo
gous to that of a transparent crystal, is produced upon

polarized light when transmitted through glass in any

ordinary state of violent constraint. If the constraint,

which may be elevated to be on the point of breaking
the glass, be produced by electricity, it seems probable

that a similar action might be observed. -- I remain, with

great respect, yours faithfully,

                                  WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Faraday replied :--

                                                   R. INSTITUTION, 8 August 1845.

    DEAR SIR -- I hasten to acknowledge and thank you

for your letter. I reply thus speedily only in reference

to your inquiries in the latter part of it.

      I have made many experiments on the probable
attraction of dielectrics. I did not expect any, nor did I
find any, and yet I think that some particular effect

(perhaps not attraction or repulsion) ought to come out
when the dielectric is not all of the same inductive

capacity, but consists of parts having different inductive

capacity.

    I have also worked much on the state of the dielectric

as regards polarized light, and you will find my negative

results at paragraphs 951-955 of my Experimental Re
searches. I purpose resuming this subject hereafter. I

also worked hard upon crystalline dielectrics to discover

some molecular conditions in them (see par. 1688, etc.
etc.), but could get no results except negative. Still I

firmly believe that the dielectric is in a peculiar state

whilst induction is taking place across it. -- I am, my dear

sir, yours very truly,            M. FARADAY.

    Wm. Thomson, Esq.

     Later in the month Thomson wrote again,
proposing to call to learn more of the experiments ;
but Faraday was leaving town.

    In the final form which the paper on the Theory

ISO  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                         CHAP.

of Electricity in Equilibrium took in the Cambridge
and Dublin Journal, in November 1845, there were
introduced additional paragraphs. One of these

contained a formula giving a solution for the case
of two equal spheres, one only of which is insulated,

with numerical results calculated for four different

distances. The formula was given without proof,
and the method by which Thomson had arrived at

it was not published1 till 1849 ; but it is of extreme
interest, inasmuch as it is probably the first case of

the deduction of physical formulae from energy prin

ciples. These formulae were analytically deduced

from the following fundamental proposition : 2-- The
" mechanical value " of the distribution of electricity
on a group of insulated conductors may be easily
shown to be equal to half the sum of the products
obtained by multiplying the quantity of electricity on

each conductor into the potential within it. But
before this demonstration was sent to Liouville,

Thomson had already found another by a different

method --the method of electric images.

     In the second paper8 of the series on the Theory

    1 Sent to Liouville in July 1849. Republished in enlarged form in the
Philosophical Magazine, v. pp. 287-297, April 1853, and reprinted in art. vi.

p. 92, in Electrostatics and Magnetism.

   * In 1853 Thomson added the following footnote to the paper: -- "This

proposition occurred to me in thinking over the demonstration which Gauss
gave of the theorem that a given quantity of matter may be distributed in one,
and only one, way over a given surface, so as to produce a given potential at

every point of the surface, and considering the mechanical signification of the
function on the rendering of which a minimum that demonstration is founded.

It was published, I believe, by Helmholtz in 1847, in his treatise, Ueber die
Erhaltung der Kraft, by the translation of which, in the last number of the
New Scientific Memoirs
British scientific public.  "[Taylor's],  a great benefit  has  been  conferred  on the

3 Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal, vol. iii. p. 131, March

1848, and Electrostatics and Magnetism, art. iv. p. 42.

in  POST-GRADUATE STUDIES  151

of Electricity, which did not appear till three years
later, there was a systematic statement of the prin

ciples on which the mathematical theory is founded.

This was intended to be introductory, being pub
lished for the avowed reason that there existed " no

published work in which the principles are stated in
a sufficiently concise and correct form, independ
ently of any hypothesis, to be altogether satisfactory
in the present state of science." In this document
great stress is laid on clear definitions. The
development of the theory to embrace the internal
electrical polarization of solid or liquid dielectrics

was postponed ; a footnote referring the reader
to the earlier article of 1845 in Liouville's

Journal (vol. x. p. 209), and adding that a similar

view had been subsequently taken by Mossotti.
     The third article of the series was an exposition

of geometrical notions regarding solid angles and
potentials, and of theorems about electrical influence.

     The doctrine of electric images, several times
mentioned, seems to have been in Thomson's mind

before he left Cambridge ; but it developed itself
with surprising rapidity during his sojourn in Paris,
and shortly after his return to Cambridge he com
municated it to Liouville in three letters, the sub

stance of which was printed * in the Journal de

mathdmatiques in October 1845 and June 1846.
This method, which even now is not adequately
appreciated, is so elegant, and so fruitful in its

application, that it merits some attention from the

        1 Reprinted in Electrostatics and Magnetism, art. xiv. pp. 144-154.

     152  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                     CHAP.

scientific reader. It furnishes a most cogent illus
tration of the value of that which has been aptly

     termed the cross -fertilization of the sciences, the

value of introducing into one branch of science the

concepts that have arisen in another. To explain

the concept of electric images, it may be well to

     begin with a concrete and familiar case of optical
     images. Every one knows that if a candle is placed
     in front of an ordinary plane mirror, the image of

          seen by looking into the mirror,         is,
                                                            1 it
a it,                                              as were,

     another candle of equal size and brightness with

     the first, situated apparently exactly as far behind

     the mirror as the real candle                 front. In fact,
                                                   is
                                                       in

                                                                                 if

     the mirror were to be removed from its frame, and

        second candle set in the position where the image
     previously appeared, the amount of illumination
     received at any given point in front of the mirror

     from the two candles would be identical with the

     amount received from the one candle and its image.

     The limitations of the frame would prevent the

     image, or the substituted candle, from being seen

     from every direction. If the mirror be conceived

     to be indefinitely extended, and its frame to be

     infinitely wide and high, these limitations would be
     removed. If, instead of a plane mirror, spherical
     mirror or silver ball were substituted, the image of

       candle placed in front will appear to be smaller
a

      1
                                                           is,
                                                                                 is
                                                                                     a

                                                                                      a
                                                                                a
                                                                                                                    is
     candle situated now within the spherical surface,

          Of equal brightness, that         on the assumption that the mirror                                           a

     perfect reflector. As a matter of fact there  small loss due to imperfec

     tion. Even the most perfectly polished silver mirror reflects only about 95
     or 96 per cent of the light that falls on it. We shall, however, assume

     perfect reflectivity in the argument.

in           POST-GRADUATE STUDIES           153

and at a distance behind the silvered face not equal

to the distance of the candle in front, but nearer to

the face. The apparent size and distance of this

image can be calculated by easy geometrical rules ;

and again it will be true that if the mirror be

removed, and there be substituted an equivalent

smaller candle in the place where the image

appeared, the illumination at any point in front

will remain unaltered by such substitution.

    Now, consider a small insulated conducting body,

such as a small metal sphere, charged with positive

electricity. If placed in the middle of a large empty

room it will project its influence into the space

around it in radial straight lines, acting as though

the electric charge upon it were concentrated at its

centre. Now, suppose a very large sheet of copper,

or some other good conductor of electricity, to be

placed at the side of the charged sphere at a short

distance from it. It can be shown that, for all

points of the space in front of this sheet, the sheet

acts as an electric mirror ; the effects in this region

being the same as            in the absence of the sheet,
                 a
                        if,
there had been second charged sphere placed ex

actly as far behind the sheet as the actual sphere  is

in front of  it  But there this curious peculiarity,
                             is

that in order to procure an equivalent effect this
" image sphere " would have to be charged with an

equal quantity of negative electricity. The " image"

of a positive chargea             negative one, and vice
                         is
                               a
versa. If we suppose the sheet removed and the
"image " replaced by small actual sphere, negatively

154  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

electrified to an equal degree, the space between and
around the spheres will be traversed by a system of
curved lines of electric force emanating from one and

terminating at the other. If we remove the second

sphere and replace the sheet, the lines of force in
front, emanating from the positive sphere, will still

curve round exactly as before1 until they reach the

sheet. The sheet will, in fact, receive (by induc
tion) a negative charge ; and this charge will be
distributed over its surface according to a certain
law, the density of the charge being strongest at
the point of the surface nearest to the sphere, and

weaker over the surface outwards from this centre.2

This case illustrates not merely the conception of

electric images, but also the much more refined
conception which Thomson had arrived at in 1842
(and Green before him) of the replacing of an
electrified body or point by an electric charge dis
tributed over a surface in such a way as to be in
equilibrium, as explained above on p. 141. If,
to take another case, the positive electric point
charge is placed in front of a large uninsulated
metal sphere, to act as a spherical mirror, there will
again be an electric " image " formed within the
sphere, and this " image " will be negative ; but its
distance behind the reflective surface will not be

equal to the distance of the electric "object" in

    1 In all this the charges on the balls are supposed to be distributed uni

formly over them, the sheet to be uninsulated ; and the distance from ball to

sheet so great that no spark can jump across, and in fact much greater than
the radius of either ball.

    2 The density at any point of the surface varies, in fact, inversely as the

cube of its distance from the influencing electric charge.

in     POST-GRADUATE STUDIES                                                                 155

front ; and though simple rules * can be given for

finding the position and magnitude of the electric
" image," these rules differ from those for the finding

of the conjugate images in optics. An electrical

       if is,

                                                a is
                                                                               it
image  then, an electrified point, or system of

points, on one side of a surface, which would pro

duce on the other side of that surface the same

electrical action which the actual electrification of

that surface really does produce.2 The method of

images can be extended to many applications. For

instance, an electrified point situated between

two parallel conducting sheets, not only will
generate a primary " image " in each sheet, but

each primary image will generate secondary image

of itself in the other sheet, and these will generate

tertiary images, and so on in an infinite row, exactly

as a luminous point does between two mutually

facing mirrors. The resulting electric distributions

can be calculated by the superposition of the distri

butions equivalent to the successive members of the

series. Again, an electrified point placed any
    21

                     if if

                                           a
                                            is

                                                                                      is
                                                                                          a

                                                     if

                                                                       is
                                                                                        is
where between two indefinitely extended planes that

meet one another like the two leaves of a sheet of

paper, there will be number of images symmetri

cally situated the angle between the planes 90°
or 60° or any integral fraction of 360°. This, as
Thomson pointed out, the analogue of the optical

toy called the kaleidoscope. Further, two electrified

    In fact, the radius of the reflecting sphere  geometric mean between

the respective distances of the point-object and point-image from the centre of

the sphere.
        Clerk Maxwell, Electricity and Magnetism, art. 157.

156               LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                         CHAP.

spheres that are not small are brought near to one

another, reacting on one another's charges so that

the distribution of the charges over the spheres is

distorted out of uniformity, the distribution of the

charges and the resulting force of attraction or

repulsion can be calculated by considering the

whole effect as a succession of images that are

superposed on one another.                                                             images   to
                                                                                        I845,1  he
    In communicating the principle of
Liouville, by letter, on October 8th,

showed that the production of images in spheres is

closely connected with the principle of geometrical

inversion, applied  not actually invented by him)
                  a
to the calculation of the reciprocal positions of
                      (if
object and image, and he announced certain special
                             in
applications to the distribution of electricity overa                                           a

circular disc or segment of sphere intercepted

by a plane. In June and September of 1846 he

followed up his communication by two other letters

announcing further extensions, which his preoccupa

tion with new duties Glasgow prevented him at

the time from elaborating.

     In October 1845, the earliest opportunity of

giving him office after being elected to the Fellow

ship, Thomson was appointed, on the proposition of

Cookson, to be College lecturer in Mathematics at

Peterhouse -- post which he held to the end of the
1

                       a

                                                                                    ;
Easter term 1846. In November his paper on the

     Liouville's Journal, x. p. 364, 1845 reprinted in Electrostatics and
Magnetism, art. xiv. p. 144. The subsequent letters on the same subject, in
Liouville, vol. xii., are reprinted in continuation on pp. 146-154, followed
     Liouville's                                                congratulating "ce
by    assuring    himapp"recdieatifveestimcoemqmueentj'aariy  pour son talent."        jeune  geometre,"
and

in                    POST-GRADUATE STUDIES                     157

" Laws of Statical Electricity " (p. 1 43 above) appeared
in the Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal,

as also another article, a "Note on Induced Magnet

ism in a Plate." This is an application of the prin

ciple of images to the case where a magnet is held in
front of a plate of soft iron, the resulting magnetic

distribution being shown to be equivalent to a
series of pairs of image - magnets of intensities
decreasing in a geometrical progression. He re
marks that the magnetic inductive capacity of the
    ;

           (if

                    it,
                                    it
iron could be regarded as indefinitely great) in the

extreme case the effect of the plate to destroy all
                                        is
action behind         so that will act as a (magnetic)
screen adding, " This we know to be the caseIt
                                                                        ;
when an infinite conducting screen of any form                    is

placed before an electric body." To this question

of screening he often returned in after-years for

example, in a Royal Society paper of 1891, reprinted

at 68 of his Baltimore Lectures.        will also be
    p.

                   1

remembered that he employed an iron shell to

shield his marine galvanometer from disturbance by

external influences.

    Thomson remained at Cambridge for the long
vacation of 1845, coaching four or five pupils. In
August he wrote to his father, at Knock, that he

was anxious to get home to hear what he had to say

about the important matters in consideration at

present. "As far as am concerned, think can

spend my time profitably and probably pleasantly
here as long as there any chance of the professor

ship of Natural Philosophy being in the present
                      is I
                                              I
                                                             I

158  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

state." He tells how he is to be employed to

lecture in the October term, besides taking pupils to
earn money, and when he comes down to Knock
for September he will bring Fuller with him.

    In October he is back at Cambridge, and there

learns that David Thomson has been appointed to
Aberdeen. His father writes, saying that one of
the Glasgow professors had asked whether William

would take his place as locum lenens, and that he

had demurred, saying that William could not with

propriety give up his Cambridge engagements for

any temporary post. A substitute was found for
the session. On November 1st William writes of
himself: --

     I have as many pupils as I wish this term, and I have

managed to arrange so as to have my private pupils only
three times a week, leaving the other days clear. I have

College lectures every morning (saints' days, of which
this is one, being happily excepted) at eight o'clock in
the morning. I have charge of the third year men who
are reading for honours. There are only three of them,
one of whom is reading high subjects, and the other two
are only at conic sections. I have, therefore, two classes,
and I have one of the second year men in the conic
section class. I find such lecturing pleasanter than taking

private pupils, as I can class the men together more

readily. Otherwise it is very similar.
     Last night I played for the first time in the orchestra

of the University Musical Society, taking the cornopean

parts.

    The winter of 1845-46 seems to have been un
eventful. An autobiographical note in the mathe

matical diary, dated July 1st, 1846, tells all that is

m            POST-GRADUATE STUDIES       159

known. It begins by reverting to the work of the
previous summer when he was working on electric

images.

   During the remainder of the term I was at Cambridge

I drew pictures of successive images in spheres, etc., etc.

When I was at home (at Knock) I was principally
engaged (when I did any work) in the consideration of the
...disf of elect" on circular plates subject to the influence
of points in their planes, etc.          I gave this to Liouville

in a letter written principally at Knock, but posted at
Camb., Oct. 8th. It was published in Liouville's September

number. I had a great deal of correspondence about the

Math. Journal all summer on ace' of the change of
name, etc. (Graves, Sir W. Hamilton, Townsend, Boole,

besides the Cambridge men). My effected work till the
present time is to be found in the Math. Journal. In
the Christmas vacation (from the latter part of the

October term) I was engaged a great deal in (as yet)
illusory attempts to do anything for planes cutting at an

angle not a sub-multiple of TT. . . . Some results of the

co-ordinates explained (Oct. 27th), including the actual
                      of them of
solution by   means  to Liouville  the   plerottbeler mlasftorwetewko--spIhewreass
in contact,                        in a
             I sent

writing him, at any rate, for a testimonial. I have

resolved, if possible, to send him some more in acknow

ledging his answer, as I wish to get some of the results

published at once, seeing that I have made many abortive
attempts to commence my treatise on Electricity, which I

have intended to publish in parts in the Journal, and the

prospect of getting it ready is now rather more distant.

I have also, since the beginning of the Lent term, been

often trying to connect the theory of propagation of eley
and magnetism with the solid transmission of force. I

heard of the death of Dr. Meikleham on the afternoon of

May 9th (the day of the second C.U.M.S. concert in
the May term), and since that I have had an enormous

amount of letters to write. In the examination I set four

papers for the second year, viz. Newton and Dynamics,

160  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                      CHAP, m

Statics, Analyt. Geom. and Theory of Equations, and

Diff. Calc. Since October I have been employed an hour

a day (effectively a good deal more) except saints' days,

lecturing the third year (Parnell, and Herringham, also

Male till the middle of the Lent term ; and Rippingall occa

sionally from the 2nd year), for which Cookson gave me

£80 before he started for Italy with Fuller.  [Here

follows a list of pupils: 6 in long vacation, 1845 , 6
October term, 1845 ; 7 Lent term, 1846.]

    So the chair of Natural Philosophy had at last
fallen vacant, and the ambitions so long cherished
by father and son were now to be put to the test.

        CHAPTER IV

        THE GLASGOW CHAIR

IN May 1846 the chair of Natural Philosophy in the
University of Glasgow became vacant by the death
of Professor Meikleham, who had held it since 1803.
For some years his health had been such that he

had been unable to fulfil the duties of his office, and,

as already narrated, they had been discharged at

first by Professor J. P. Nichol, but for four years by

David Thomson. Nichol now took the initiative in

moving the Faculty of the University to consider the

desirability of reorganising the teaching of Natural
Philosophy, for which the University possessed
little or no equipment. The Faculty recognised

the need of bringing the teaching into conformity
with the growing requirements of physical science

and the advance of discovery, but postponed the
rearrangements until such time as they should have

appointed a new professor of Natural Philosophy,

who should be able to advise them what steps to

take. At the same time they recorded their inten

tion to maintain the right of reopening the question
of rearrangements at any future time, that they

might not be debarred by any interposition of claims

VOL. I  161                M

162  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                CHAP.

of vested rights, real or supposed, on the part of the
new professor. Meanwhile information was circu

lated that the appointment was vacant, and that the
Faculty would shortly proceed to election. David
Thomson, who had discharged the duties from 1841
to 1846, had in the previous year succeeded to the
chair at Aberdeen. Several candidates of experience
announced themselves. But the members of the

Faculty must have been well aware that in young

Thomson, their own alumnus, and son of their hon

oured Professor of Mathematics, there was a man of

no ordinary promise. His father, too, had been,

as we have seen, preparing for the event, and at

once took active steps. His first act, after sending

a hasty note to his son, was to write to Forbes to

ascertain his views and intentions.  Forbes's reply

was clear :--

                                           CUMBERLAND, nth May 1846.

    MY DEAR SIR --Your note announcing the vacancy

of the Glasgow chair of Natural Philosophy was forwarded
to me here from Edinburgh. I have no intention of being
a candidate. I hope that your son will, and that he will

obtain it I thank you for your mathematical papers, and

remain, my dear sir, yours sincerely,

                                                      JAMES D. FORBES.

     Dr. James Thomson, Glasgow.

The father sends advice to the son :--

                                                   GLASGOW, May 10, i84s[6].

    MY DEAR WILLIAM -- I have just had your note, which

was written before you could have heard of Dr. Meikle-
ham's death. In reference to the vacancy thus produced,
you must do everything that honour and propriety will

iv         THE GLASGOW CHAIR  163

...allow.  I have had no conversation, therefore, in

reference to you with anyone except Dr. W. Thomson.

He is quite friendly, but he evidently fears your instruc

tions would be too deep for our students, and that you

might fail in giving general interest. Do all you possibly

can to obviate this impression. You cannot dictate to

those who may give you testimonials, but you might, in

many cases, be able to give a hint that the situation is

half-mathematical and half-popular, and thus get persons

to certify as to your clearness in writing, expression, etc.

The testimonies of Hopkins, Cookson, Fuller, and others

in your own college will obviously have the greatest

...effect. Get all you can, however, from other quarters.
       A testimonial from Regnault (and perhaps others in

Paris) as to your knowledge of experimental and the

lighter subjects would do great good. If you do it in a

cautious and judicious way, you can readily influence in

considerable degree those to whom you apply. . . .

    You should get, without delay, Kelland's new edition of
Dr. Tho5 Young's Natural Philosophy. It is an interest
ing work, and is of a popular character. You should also,

irrespective of your application here, write out some

lectures of as simple and elementary a kind as possible ;
keeping in mind, what I find to be more and more the

feeling, that Oxford and Cambridge men (Lushington,

Kelland, Hitchens, etc.) have not given satisfaction here,
and that you will have to contend against the feeling thus

produced, and against the handle it will afford to the Dr.

Flemings et hoc genus omne. -- Yours affectly

           J. THOMSON.

    Then there is much correspondence filling the
rest of May and June ; for both father and son busy

themselves in collecting the necessary testimonials.

William went to London to see his scientific friends

and to consult Archibald Smith. He is dismayed to
find Smith himself hankering after the post He

1 64        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                    CHAP.

calls on Faraday, but knows that Faraday never
gives any testimonials. He calls on the younger
Lushington in London, and finds Tennyson in his

rooms.

    On May 26th he writes preliminary letters,
announcing his candidature, to thirteen of the

electors. A facsimile of one of these, to the pro

fessor of Moral Philosophy, is here given.

      DEAR  SIR -- As                    ST. PETER'S COLLEGE,
                                  CAMBRIDGE, May 26th, 1846.

                       the Chair of Natural Philosophy

in the University of Glasgow has recently become
vacant, and as you are one of the Electors, I take the
liberty of announcing to you my intention of becoming
a candidate for that situation ; and, as soon as I shall

have it in my power, I shall transmit to you testimonials

in support of my application.  be, Dear Sir, Your  most
    I have the honour to       WILLIAM THOMSON,

obedient servant,

                       Fellow and Mathematical Lecturer of

                                         St. Peter's College.

    The testimonials produced by the candidate were

circulated by his father, with the following covering

letter :--

                                                        COLLEGE, June 20, 1 846.

    DEAR SIR -- I take the liberty of sending you & proof

of such of my son's testimonials as have reached me.
He will have others, copies of which will be transmitted
in due time to the electors. The number of his re
commendations will be small, however, as he proceeds on

what I consider to be a proper principle -- that of pro

curing testimonials from no persons who are not able
to speak of him from personal knowledge, or from having
read his publications.

     From the electors I wish no pledge or promise in his

                  tc
                  D

           s

                1

            ze
             u<
             o

 1

^r


iv       THE GLASGOW CHAIR                                                  165

favour, and I have no doubt of their keeping themselves

equally, unpledged in  retfheereirncenotticoe.a--nyI  other candidates
that may come under                                   remain, dear sir,

yours faithfully,               JAMES THOMSON.

    On June 17 the younger Thomson wrote :--

                                ST. PETER'S COLLEGE,

                                                              June 17, 1846.

    MY DEAR FATHER -- I returned from London yester

day, and found your letter along with some others which had

arrived since Saturday, waiting for me. I did not think

that there would be any use in my being at home before

the middle or end of July, when I engaged to go on with
my pupil till the I 5th, but from what you say I must en
deavour to get him disposed of with some other tutor, and, if

you still think it would be necessary, or at all useful, to be

in Glasgow early in July, I think I can be quite sure of

managing so as to get away as soon as the business

about my Fellowship will allow me, which will be about

the end of the first week in July. . . .

    I called on Prof. Graham about Faraday's lecture,

and again on the evening before I left London. He

spoke to me a good deal about the prospects of the

election at Glasgow. He does not think any of the

London men will come forward, though there are some

who would be very glad to have  but are prevented by
Iif

             I
                                      I

                                                               it,

                                                                         I
various reasons. If none of his friends there do come

forward think he might perhaps give me a testimonial

    were to ask him, but doubt much whether should,

as he has such slight grounds for saying anything for me.

He, as many others, especially of the best men here,

spoke to me very strongly about the objectionable nature

of the great multitude of testimonials which are commonly

produced on such occasions. Archd Smith, as think
told you before, still in a state of indecision, and will
         it
                        is

                                                                 is,

                                                                   I
                                                                                it, I
probably remain so till the end, that                 till the electors

offer him the situation, in whh case he would accept

or give  to some other person. Graham says that

Smith's father will probably make great exertions about

166  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                              CHAP.

the election, but still, unless Archibald Smith himself
comes forward as candidate, I can hardly conceive of

him being elected.  Potter, the professor of Natural

Philosophy at University College, would be a candidate

if he was free from an engagement under which he is

to remain for at least another year at University College.

From what Graham says, I am sure he would have

exceedingly high testimonials, but I have not heard that

he is trying to get off with his engagement. All these

things, in addition to the general uncertainty of the

prospect, have been making me very anxious, and you

may be quite sure that (although you think I am too
cool on the subject) nothing which I can do to increase

my chance will be left undone. Any slowness hitherto
has been because I thought you would not want me to

have the testimonials ready for circulation till the meet

ing on the 5th of August. I shall, however, think on
nothing but getting any which I am to have ready as

soon as possible. I have also been feeling very much

a dislike of testimonials and want of faith in their power,
and I think that if the electors, instead of the candidates,

asked for the opinions of the people writing the testi

monials, that much fairer results could be obtained. If,

for instance, the electors would ask people here, who

know both Smith and myself, for the opinion of our
relative merits for the situation (which is a kind of

request that a candidate could never make) something
much more explicit would be known, than can be from

general testimonials. Of course nothing of the kind will,

I suppose, be done, and I must just take the usual plan of
getting as many testimonials as I can. Cookson would

have persuaded me if he could, not to get any testimonials

except from Hopkins and Peacock, and even Hopkins

recommended me to get very few.

     I attended Faraday's lecture which, though on his new

great discoveries, was very popular, and very interesting
                                                           I
to a miscellaneous assemblage of fashionable people.
spoke to Faraday after the lecture, and told him that I

am candidate for the vacant professorship. As I anti

iv  THE GLASGOW CHAIR                                167

cipated, he makes a rule not to give testimonials (and he
gave the same opinion as others about the badness of

testimonials in general), but he wished me success.  have

    I enclose some more testimonials which I
already received. --Your affectionate son,

    WILLIAM THOMSON.

    The other candidates were :--

     David Gray, M.A., then professor of Natural Philo
sophy in the Marischal College, Aberdeen.

     Thomas Miller, A.M., rector of the Academy of Perth.
     Thomas Aitken, M.D., formerly lecturer in Natural
Philosophy in the Royal Institution of Liverpool.
     Andrew Bell, mathematical master in Dollar In
stitution.
     William Brydone Jack, A.M., professor of Mathematics
and Natural Philosophy in King's College, Fredericton,
New Brunswick.

   A copy of the letters of application and testi

monials presented by the several candidates has
been preserved, and is in the possession of Dr.

Hutchison, headmaster of the Glasgow High

School.

    The following is the complete list of the persons
who furnished Thomson with the testimonials which
he presented in support of his candidature :--

    The Master and Fellows of St. Peter's College, Cam
bridge ; Rev. H. W. Cookson ; William Hopkins, Esq. ;
Frederick Fuller, Esq. ; the Rev. W. Whewell ; the Very

Rev. George Peacock ; the Rev. Professor Challis ; the
Rev. S. Earnshaw ; the Rev. S. Blackall ; the Rev. Harvey
Goodwin ; R. L. Ellis, Esq. ; Professor Forbes ; Dr.
Thomas Thomson ; Dr. R. D. Thomson ; the Rev. Pro

fessor Lloyd ; Professor De Morgan ; Arthur Cayley,
Esq. ; Richard Townsend, Esq. ; Dr. William Couper ;

168  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Sir William R. Hamilton ; William Walton, Esq. ; George

Boole, Esq. ; J. J. Sylvester, Esq. ; George G. Stokes,

Esq. ; James Armitage, Esq. ; Professor David Thomson ;
George W. Hemming, Esq. ; John Sykes, Esq. ; M.
Regnault ; M. Liouville.

    The more important of these are here repro

duced.

      From the MASTER AND RESIDENT FELLOWS of

                       St. Peter's College, Cambridge.

     Whereas, William Thomson, Bachelor of Arts, Fellow
of this College, and Mathematical Lecturer, is a candidate
for the Professorship of Natural Philosophy in the Univer
sity of Glasgow, and hath requested of us letters testi
monial of his scientific learning and good behaviour, We,
the Master and Fellows whose names are underwritten, do
testify that the said William Thomson has been resident
amongst us nearly the whole period from his first entering
the University in 1841, to the present ; that he has been
regular and exemplary in his conduct, and has diligently
applied himself to his studies ; that his talents and attain
ments in Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, as shown
both in his own College and in this University, are of the
highest order ; and that we consider him, in all respects,
eminently qualified for the situation which he seeks to
obtain.

      Given at St. Peter's College, under our hands and seal,
this thirtieth day of May 1 846.

                              W. HODGSON, Master.
                              H. W. COOKSON, Senior Tutor.
                              WM. NlND.
                              JOHN COCKER.
                              BARNARD SMITH.
                            PHILIP FREEMAN, Junior Tutor.
                                 THOS. WOLLASTON.
                              GEORGE WEST PIGGOTT.
                              FREDERICK FULLER, Assistant Tutor.

iv  THE GLASGOW CHAIR  169

  From the Rev. HENRY WILKINSON COOKSON, M.A.,
     Fellow and Tutor of St. Peter's College, Cambridge.

                                            Sx, PETER'S COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                                       June ist, 1846.

    MY DEAR SIR -- As I am about to leave England for

a tour of several weeks, I shall not be in the way when

the election takes place to the vacant professorship at
Glasgow ; there is nothing, however, which your son can

require from the College, which we cannot provide at the
present time. I sincerely trust that, both on his own
account and for the cause of science, he may be success
ful in his application.

     He is regarded here, by the most competent judges, as
the first man of science, of the rising generation, in the
country ; and as he is devotedly fond of scientific pursuits,
and ardent in his desire to inspire others with the love of

them, he seems to be peculiarly suited for a professorship.

It is a recommendation to him also, that he is extremely

popular and much esteemed.

    When he was an undergraduate, I was in the habit of

examining him ; and his expositions of principles and his
proofs of ordinary propositions were so clear and satis
factory, that I frequently preserved them to give to my

pupils as the best which could be met with on the subject ;
and on this account, and in consequence of the great in
terest which he was likely to take in encouraging the
study of Mathematics, I proposed last year that he should

be employed as College Lecturer, with the hope that

private tutors might be rendered unnecessary. Happily he
accepted the office, and he has discharged the duties of it
with great ability and zeal, so that there is now no real
necessity whatever for any of the students of his class re
sorting to the assistance of a private tutor.

     Some persons may be inclined to suppose, that as he

is much occupied with original investigations in the more
abstruse parts of Natural Philosophy, he would often in his
ordinary Lectures be above his audience, and be seldom

understood ; but those who know him can entirely rely upon

I/O LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

his judgment to guard against this fault. He may be quite

depended upon for adapting his instructions to his class.
He has given us here too many proofs of his discretion in

this particular to allow us to have any doubt of him. I

might mention instances, but it is unnecessary to do so.
    In the general character of his scientific investigations,

as well as in the whole course of his study, he seems to

preserve a proper medium between what is entirely specu

lative and what is exclusively practical ; and he has a
very high view of the objects of science. He may be ex
pected, therefore, to give a good tone to the studies of a

place ; and it has already been often mentioned to me in
Cambridge, how desirable it would be to retain him here,

in order that he might have a good influence upon
the studies of the University, and add to its scientific

reputation.

    Whatever he may do, I hope that, if he continues to

be blessed with health and strength, he will soon make
his name to be known in Europe. He is already blessed

with a reputation which veterans in science might envy,

but his friends look for still greater lustre. The very

early development of his powers of accurate investigation
in the most abstruse and difficult subjects' is indicative of

a mind of the first order, and raises the highest expecta

tions of his future eminence.  !--GoVdegryranstintcheartelyhe   may    live
and do honour to his country                                   yours,

                                    H. W. COOKSON.

      Dr. James Thomson,
Professor of Mathematics, Glasgow.

From WILLIAM HOPKINS, Esq., M.A., St Peters College,

                                           Cambridge.

 To the Electors to the Chair of Natural Philosophy in the
                         University of Glasgow.

                                                    CAMBRIDGE, June 26, 1846.

   GENTLEMEN -- My friend Mr. W. Thomson having

offered himself as a candidate for the vacant Professorship
of Natural Philosophy at Glasgow, I am anxious to bear

iv  THE GLASGOW CHAIR  171

testimony to his qualifications for the situation. I have
known him intimately since the commencement of his

residence at Cambridge, his mathematical studies there

having been prosecuted principally under my direction.

    It is scarcely necessary to offer individual testimony

with respect to Mr. Thomson's mathematical talents and

acquirements, which are best attested by the academic

distinction which he has gained, and the original papers

which he has written. But I would here remark, that his

power as an analyst is not unaccompanied (as is not
unfrequently the case) by a taste for physical investiga

tions. I have known other young men as good analysts
as himself; but I doubt whether, in the course of my long
experience, I have ever met with any one of his own age

who combines such a knowledge of abstract mathematics
with such an almost intuitive perception of physical truths,
so accurate a knowledge of physical principles, and such
enlarged and matured views of the great physical problems

which Nature presents to us.

    I am aware that those higher intellectual qualities

and acquirements may be regarded as having no very

direct bearing on the elementary lectures which he would
be called upon to give in his Professorial capacity ; but I

may be allowed, perhaps, to express the opinion, that the
indirect influence of high attainments on even the most

elementary lectures can hardly be too highly appreciated
in their tendency to give to such lectures a precision and
clearness which they will scarcely ever possess in the
hands of a lecturer of inferior capacity ; assuming always
the existence of the requisite power of oral exposition.
That Mr. Thomson will be found to possess this power I

have myself no doubt. My conviction on this point
rests, in the first place, on the style of his written exposi

tions, which are singularly full and perspicuous, and possess
a stamp of originality even on the simplest subjects ; and,

in the next place, I judge by the manner in which he
discusses orally any point of scientific interest. Of this

many of his friends can judge as well as myself, and I
doubt not, all will draw the same inference. Of the general

172 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

character of his written expositions no one can have had
the same opportunity of judging as myself. I repeat my

conviction that he will be found perfectly efficient as a

lecturer.

    I look to another cause of efficiency also in his lecturing.

The amiableness of his character and the simplicity of his

manners can hardly fail to render him as popular in
Glasgow as he has been with all classes of his acquaint

ance in Cambridge ; and should you do him the honour
to elect him, I feel confident that he will be as much

beloved by his class for his social and amiable qualities,

as respected by them for his abilities and attainments.

    I cannot, in conclusion, but express the most earnest

hope that Mr. Thomson may prove the successful candi

date for a situation for which he is so eminently qualified ;

and which will place him, should he obtain                                               in so good
a

                          I

                                                                                    it,
scientific position, and connect him with an Institution of

which he cannot fail to become one of the most distin

guished ornaments. -- remain, Gentlemen, Your obedient

Servant,                                  W. HOPKINS.

From FREDERICK FULLER, Esq., M.A., Fellow and
 Assistant Tutor of St. Peter's College, Cambridge.

            ST. PETER'S COLLEGE, June 1846.
a

                                    I is
                                                                                                                   2,
As Mr. William Thomson  about to offer himself as

candidate for the vacant chair of Natural Philosophy

in the University of Glasgow, have great pleasure in

bearing testimony to his high character and unusual

endowments, both moral and intellectual.

With the evidence of his accumulated University and

College honours, his published papers, and the testimony

of the most distinguished mathematicians of Cambridge

before me,  would hardly become me to speak of his
            it

                     I
                                                                                   ;

                                                            I
extraordinary scientific acquirements but in the capacity

of College Lecturer, have had an opportunity of ^observ
ing his philosophical character more narrowly, and can

speak of these qualities which are more peculiarly requisite

iv            THE GLASGOW CHAIR    173

in an instructor. He combines the greatest clearness and

precision with the most extended views in science, and he

has always been as much distinguished for the simplicity

and accuracy of his demonstrations of the more elementary

propositions of Natural Philosophy, as for his talent in

treating the abstrusest problems.

    But what I conceive renders him particularly fitted

for such a situation as that of a public professor, is the

energy of his character, and his great enthusiasm for

science. These he cannot fail to communicate, in some

degree, at least, to his pupils ; and it is needless to add

that such qualifications form the best foundations for

success in tuition.  FREDERICK FULLER, M.A.

    From the Rev. WILLIAM WHEWELL, D.D., Master of
                        Trinity College, Cambridge.

                     TRINITY LODGE, May n, 1846.

    Having examined Mr. Thomson for the Smith's Prizes

in January 1845, and having been one of the judges who

assigned to him the first of these prizes, I beg leave to
say that he appeared to me very decidedly to deserve this

distinction, and that his superiority appeared principally

in the most difficult of the mathematical problems pro

posed by me.                       W. WHEWELL.

    From ROBERT LESLIE ELLIS, Esq., M.A., Fellow of
                        Trinity College, Cambridge.

                                                      May II, 1846.

    In 1845, I was Senior Examiner, and I examined

Mr. William Thomson for the degree of B.A.

    I entertain the highest opinion of his genius and

acquirements, and have no doubt whatever of his being
admirably qualified to fulfil the duties of the office for
which he is a candidate.

     I may be allowed to express my belief, that Mr.

174 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

Thomson will hereafter occupy a very distinguished place
among the scientific men of Europe.

                                                                R. L. ELLIS.

From JAMES D. FORBES, Esq., Professor of Natural
      Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh.

                               CARLISLE, iyd May, 1846.

MY DEAR SIR -- I am very glad to hear that your son

is to be a candidate for the Chair of Natural Philosophy
in Glasgow. From what I know of him personally, from

all that I have heard by the report of competent and disin

terested persons, and from what I have seen of his writings,

I have  no  doubt whatever that his  Ealpepcotoinrstm. --entI  will do
        to  the College and to the                             remain,
honour

my dear Sir, Yours sincerely,

Professor James Thomson,       JAMES D. FORBES.

        Glasgow College.

  From THOMAS THOMSON, Esq., M.D., Professor of
              Chemistry in the University of Glasgow.

                                                        GLASGOW, May 28, 1846.

     Mr. William Thomson attended the Chemistry class,
and the regular Examinations during the Session 1838-9.
His conduct was exemplary ; and the figure which he
made, when examined, was highly to his credit, and
showed a good knowledge of the principles of science.
He also attended the Laboratory, where he was a practical
student for some time. His profound mathematical know
ledge, together with his unremitting industry, give him
peculiar claims to the Chair of Natural Philosophy, which,
if properly taught, constitutes the most laborious chair
(except Chemistry) in the College.

                                                         THOMAS THOMSON.

iv          THE GLASGOW CHAIR                              175

From AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN, Esq., Professor of Mathe

                   matics in University College, London.

To the Electors to the Professorship of Natural Philosophy
                    in the University of Glasgow.

                  UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON,

                                   June 19, 1846.

    GENTLEMEN -- On behalf of Mr. Thomson, of St.

Peter's College,  Cambridge, a     candidate  :--for  the  post
above mentioned,  I beg to state  as follows

    My knowledge of Mr. Thomson is limited to his

writings, and some correspondence on matters connected

with the Cambridge Mathematical Journal, of which he is

editor.

    A year or two ago, on inquiring the name of the

author of some anonymous * papers of great ability in that

Journal, I was told that they were by an undergraduate,

Mr. Thomson of St. Peter's. From these, and from what

Mr. Thomson has since written, there can be no doubt

whatever that he is a mathematician of great promise.
    With reference to his present application, there are

two points particularly worth notice :

    (1) That his mathematical speculations have turned
very much   in that line which is  now so     essential to a
teacher of                         analysis   by which the
            Physics -- I mean the

mathematical theories of electricity, heat, and light have

been brought to their present form. That a Cambridge

man of high honours has read in these subjects is now a

matter of course ; but it does not necessarily follow that
he has made them one of his first subjects of interest.

When the question comes on as to whether a professor

ship in Physics should be entrusted to a young man

whose public character has been established by his

mathematical writings, it should not be forgotten that,

in the present instance, these writings are, in great

   1 These papers have since been acknowledged in the same Journal in an

index.

176 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

part, not only connected with the most material questions
of Physics, but indicate a strong turn that way.

    (2) A Cambridge degree of the sort which Mr. Thomson

has taken, though always a good test of knowledge and
power, is a still better one, when the owner of it has been
employed in original research during his undergraduate-

ship. Very few men publish anything while under

graduates ; and it is generally thought, and I believe,

justly, that it is not wise, with reference to the degree
alone, to distract the attention from the University

course.

Confining my remarks strictly to what I know of Mr.
Thomson, and to obvious and necessary inference, I shall

say nothing further ; but beg to remain, Gentlemen, Your

most obedient Servant,                A. DE MORGAN.

From GEORGE G. STOKES, Esq., M. A., Fellow of Pembroke

                                     College, Cambridge.

                                      CAMBRIDGE, July 6, 1846.

     Mr. William Thomson being a candidate for the
Professorship of Natural Philosophy in the University of

Glasgow, I am desirous, as a personal acquaintance of his,

of expressing my opinion of his fitness for that office.

The distinction which Mr. Thomson has already attained

renders it almost unnecessary for me to say anything as

to his mathematical abilities and acquirements. I would

merely observe that, from my conversation with him, and

from the perusal of his writings, I am fully satisfied of the

original character of his mind. But besides this, I feel

assured that Mr. Thomson possesses extremely clear views

on physical subjects, together with a sound judgment, and

a correct   a;p--prqeuciaaltitioiens  of the relative   value of different
hypotheses                            indispensable to  a philosopher, but

which do not always fall to the lot of even eminent

mathematicians. Should Mr. Thomson be elected, he
will, I am persuaded, ably discharge the duties of his

office, and reflect credit on the University which has

chosen him.                                             G. G. STOKES.

iv          THE GLASGOW CHAIR                            177

        From M. REGNAULT, Membre de I" Acad^mie des

            Sciences, etc.

                     i"PARIS, le juillet, 1846.

    J'ai 1'honneur de recommander a la bienveillance de
Messieurs les electeurs de I'Universitd de Glasgow, Mr.
William Thomson qui se pr£sente comme candidat a la

Chaire de Physique vacante dans la dite University.

    Pendant son sejour a Paris, Mr. Thomson a travaille'

pendant trois mois dans mon laboratoire, et m'a assiste

dans mes experiences. J'ai 6t6 a meme de reconnaitre

sa grande aptitude aux travaux de recherches et ses

connaissances etendues dans les sciences physiques et

mathematiques.                      a la place qu'il  postule,
                                    un choix dont     elle se
    En nommant Mr. Thomson

1'Universitd de Glasgow fera

f£licitera, et qui certainement lui fera honneur par la

suite.

    De mon cdte, je m'estimerais heureux, si ma faible

recommandation pouvait influer quelque peu sur la de

cision de Messieurs les electeurs.

                                    V. REGNAULT.

                   Membre de I'Acadtmie des Sciences,
            Professeur de Physique au College de France.

    The other testimonials not here quoted in full

all speak in the same strain of Thomson's abilities.

Challis, whose lectures on Practical Astronomy,

Optics, Hydrostatics, and Pneumatics, Thomson had

in 1844 attended, and who was one of the examiners
for the Smith's Prizes in 1845, wrote that his

answers to questions in Natural Philosophy exhibited

a knowledge of the literature and a remarkable

comprehension of principles. Blackall, one of the

Moderators in 1845, spoke of his readiness in

choosing the best mode of attacking unexpected

    VOL. I                                            N

178  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

problems, and his precision in arriving at an accu
rate result through the medium of complicated
analysis. William Walton, the eminent mathe
matician, of Trinity Hall, wrote that he considered

Thomson's published papers to place him in so high
a position among the mathematicians of England, as

to render entirely superfluous any testimonial to his
ability as a mathematician or natural philosopher ;
and added that in relation to his powers of expo
sition, he considered him to possess, in an eminent

degree, that facility of scientific elocution, and that
energy of manner which are so essential to arrest
the attention of a class of students. Sir William

Rowan Hamilton emphasized his ability to deal
with physical applications of mathematics, and

Boole dwelt on the importance of his researches on
the equilibrium of fluids. Sylvester testified to the
influence of Thomson's editorship in raising the
quality of the Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical

Journal. Cayley praised his familiarity with mathe
matical physics, and the fullness and fertility of his

mind, predicting that he would contribute largely to
the future progress of science. Dr. R. D. Thomson
attested that W. Thomson, having attended the
Chemical Laboratory of Glasgow University during
part of session 1843-44, exhibited a decided aptitude

 for manipulation ; and that he handled his apparatus
and performed his analyses in a neat and accurate

manner. And David Thomson, now Professor in

Aberdeen, stated that when, six years before, he
had been suddenly called upon by the late Dr.

iv  THE GLASGOW CHAIR  179

Meikleham to undertake the duties of his chair, he

would certainly have sunk under the labours of his
first session had not young William Thomson
kindly undertaken to assist him in the preparation
of the experiments by which the lectures were

illustrated.

    To the unique series of testimonials so presented,

forming, as printed, an octavo pamphlet of twenty-
eight pages, Thomson added an appendix enumerat
ing his published original papers. Seventeen of
these were from vols. ii., iii., and iv. of the Cam
bridge Mathematical Journal, and five more in the
new Journal, of which he had become editor, to
gether with four more from Liouville's Journal.

He also presented the following addendum :--

    The following communications from M. LlOUVlLLE,
member of the French Institute and Board of Longitude,
and editor of the Journal de mathtmatiques, have been
received since Mr. William Thomson's other testimonials

were printed :--

    MON CHER MONSIEUR        TOUL, 2<f juillet, 1846.  £

                       ARMITAGE --J'apprends

1'instant meme que la chaire de Physique a 1'Universite

de Glasgow etant vacante, notre ami commun, M. William

Thomson, se presente comme candidat. Vous avez pu

voir, lors de votre dernier voyage a Paris, quelle haute

opinion j'ai concue des talents de ce jeune savant, quel

cas je fais des memoires deja nombreux que nous lui

devons, et combien d'esperances je fonde sur son avenir.

C'est vous qui dans le temps avez bien voulu 1'adresser

a moi, et vous vous rappelez avec quel empressement j'ai

accueilli quelques-uns de ses premiers travaux dans le

Journal de mathtmatiques. On y voyait deja briller les
qualites principales qui le distinguent, la nettete, la

180 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

precision. M. Thomson joint a 1'esprit d'invention cette

clart£ d'exposition si necessaire dans 1'enseignement et

que les inventeurs n'ont pas toujours. J'ai applaudi au
choix qu'on a fait de lui pour diriger le Cambridge and

Dublin Mathematical Journal, excellent recueil qui grandira

encore entre ses mains. J'eprouverais une satisfaction

egale en apprenant sa nomination a 1' University de Glasgow.

M. William Thomson a parcouru presque toutes les

parties des mathematiques. Mais c'est surtout vers les

mathematiques appliquees que ses recherches se portent

de preference. Ses travaux sur la theorie de 1'attraction,

sur celle de la chaleur, et sur celle de 1'Electricite, en

particulier sa dissertation remarquable au sujet des ob

jections opposees par M. Harris et par M. Faraday a la

theorie de Coulomb, montrent un homme au courant de

tout ce que Ton a ecrit sur ces matieres, et tres digne de

remplacer parmi vous ce geometre Eminent, si peu connu

pendant sa vie, et si digne d'un sort meilleur, 1'illustre

George Green. Quant a la pratique des experiences, je

ne suis pas competent ; mais je sais que M. Thomson s'y

est Iivr£ avec beaucoup de zele pendant son sejour a Paris.

     Vous jugez assez par ce qui precede combien j'aurais
a cceur de pouvoir etre utile a M. Thomson dans la

circonstance importante ou il se trouve. J'aime passionne-
ment les sciences, et ceux qui les cultivent avec distinction

dans quelque pays que ce soit. Pretez-moi ici votre

assistance si vous connaissez quelques-uns des Juges, si

vous pensez que mon humble opinion puisse etre pres

d'eux de quelque poids ; dites-leur, Monsieur, tout ce que

je pense ; dites-leur que je regarde M. William Thomson

comme destin£ a figurer dans un rang eleve, au milieu de

cette pleiade de savants dont 1'Angleterre est fiere a si

juste titre. Faites ce que vous voudrez de cette lettre,

et soyez assur£ que notre jeune ami repondra de jour en

jour par de nouveaux succes a mes eloges. Votre devoue

Serviteur,                   J. LlOUVILLE,

a M. Armitage,                   Membre cU I'lnstitul et du
    Trin. Coll., Cambridge.  bureau des longitudes de France.

iv  THE GLASGOW CHAIR                       181

    afTOUL,                                 juillei, 1846.
    MON CHER MONSIEUR THOMSON --J'ai lu avec bien
du plaisir les beaux theoremes que vous m'avez envoy£s

relativement aux moments d'inertie, et qui font si bien

suite a celui de M. Binet. Ces theoremes nous montrent

par un nouvel exemple comment des theories mecaniques

et physiques, de la nature la plus diverse, peuvent en

quelque sorte se rencontrer et se r£unir sur un terrain

geometrique commun. Voil£ done la surface des ondes

de Fresnel que vous introduisez dans ces recherches ou

figuraient deja les surfaces isothermes de M. Lame. De

tels rapprochements ne sont pas seulement curieux. Us

sont pour la science du plus haut interet ; ils servent tout

a la fois a 1'agrandir et a la simplifier.

     Quant au petit theoreme dont je vous avais fait part,
j'ai et£ bien content de la demonstration si courte et si

nette que vous en donnez, et de 1'extension que vous avez

su lui faire prendre. Vous avez naturellement song£ de

suite aux moments d'inertie dont vous veniez de vous

occuper ; pour moi, par une raison d'un genre semblable,

je ne pensais qu'aux centres de gravit£.

    Continuez, Monsieur, a travailler comme vous 1'avez

fait depuis quelques annees, et les plus brillants succes

couronneront vos efforts. J'eprouverai une vive joie de

vous voir ainsi justifier de jour en jour les esp£rances que

j'avais con^ues des vos premiers travaux.

    Je desire beaucoup vous voir reussir dans votre candi
dature a 1' Universit^ de Glasgow. La chaire de Physique

vous convient de toutes manieres ; car c'est surtout vers

les math£matiques appliquees a la mecanique et a la

Physique que vos gouts vous portent de preference.

Votre maniere d'ecrire, precise et nette, vos connaissances

etendues, vos lectures variees, me prouvent d'ailleurs que

vous serez un professeur excellent. II y a des inventeurs

qui ne savent pas etre clairs, ou qui, contents d'avoir

produit, se refusent a lire ce que font les autres. Vous,

aussi, vous avez 1'esprit d'invention ; mais vous y joignez

les qualites du style, et vous savez vous tenir au courant

de la science, meme dans les parties sur lesquelles vous

1 82        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                  CHAP.

n'avez pas sp£cialement travaille. Que ne suis-je en
position de vous aider dans cette circonstance importante !

Que ne puis-je parler aux Juges et leur dire tout que je
pense de vous ! J'ai du moins essay£ de le faire en partie
par I'interm£diaire d'un de mes amis. Mais sera-t-il a

m£me de vous etre utile ? Je 1'ignore. Quoiqu'il arrive
au reste, gardez-vous bien de vous d£courager. Par la

nature de votre talent, vous me semblez appel£ a reparer

la perte que les sciences ont faite dans la personne de

votre compatriote, 1'illustre Green, dont vous avez su, un

des premiers, apprecier tout le merite, et auquel je tache

en chaque occasion de faire rendre une justice qu'il n'a

pas obtenue pendant sa vie. Vous serez plus heureux

que lui ; votre avenir est beau, croyez-moi. Votre d£vou£

Serviteur,                                               J. LIOUVILLE,

                                                         Membre de I'fnstitut et du

a M. William Thomson,                                    bureau des longitudes de France.

      St. Peter's College, Cambridge.

    We have seen that Dr. James Thomson himself

aided his son's candidature by sending advance

copies of his testimonials to his friends. A side

light on the situation is thrown by a humorous reply
sent by one of these, Professor Maconochie, who

wrote on June 22 from Bath :--

    MY DEAR DOCTOR --Your enclosure found me here
this morning. It is plain from the testimonials that your

      is,
             a

                is
                                                      a
son or shortly to be, 2nd Newton. He finds a

warm advocate in Mrs. Maconochie, but                    am much
                                                         I
afraid of father    and son in our                       pFroafceusslt--y mineesthinogrts,.  to  Pray,
what politics does   your William                                  ?                             what

party in the State does he belong? The question has

been put to me, to which can return no answer further
                    I
than saying that             I
                    believe his father to have turned a

most pestilent Whig, ready to do anything for Johnny

Russell. Now, what party does your son favour                                                    Is he

iv         THE GLASGOW CHAIR                         183

for Buckingham or Richmond ? Or for Stanley, or for
Peel, or for Russell, or for the Radicals ? Is he a dutiful

son, or will he sometimes oppose his father, who is in my
opinion generally wrong ? Reply at your leisure.

    On July 3, his year of " probation " as Fellow

having expired, Thomson went over to Ely to be
" instituted " by the Bishop, who, learning of his

candidature, expressed the hope that he "did not

intend to fritter away his time taking pupils here."

    The Faculty of the University of Glasgow had,

as we have seen, already determined that in appoint

ing their new professor they would reserve the right

to make changes as might thereafter appear desirable

in the arrangements of the department of Natural

Philosophy. When they met on September 1 1 ,

1846, to make their choice, they were still in the

same cautious mind. They knew that the spirit

of advancing science required not only modern

appliances, but a reform of methods. In Scotland,

as in Germany at that date, the physical sciences

were not yet emancipated from the shadow of the
scholastics, who in the Middle Ages " rather wore

away knowledge by their numerous treatises than
                       "
increased  its weight        and deductive  methods  largely
                          ;

overshadowed the value and importance of direct

experiment. Rhetoric and vague philosophic argu

mentation too often did duty in University lectures

for sober exposition of reasoned facts ; and the natural

philosopher even shared the prejudice that startled

Helmholtz, when a celebrated professor of Physio

logy announced during a discussion on vision that

1 84 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

a physiologist had nothing to do with experiments.
But all this was changing ; in Glasgow the times
were ripe, and Nichol's advocacy of radical changes,
reinforced by his own enthusiastic pursuit of experi
mental research, met with a willing response in the
Faculty. In the minute which they drew up in
appointing the new incumbent of the chair, they
began by asserting the right to originate or enforce
such changes as might seem requisite during the in
cumbency of the new professor. After this preamble

the resolution entered on their books runs thus :--

     The Faculty having deliberated on the respective
qualifications of the gentlemen who have announced
themselves candidates for this chair, and the vote having
been taken, it carried unanimously in favour of Mr.
William Thomson, B.A., Fellow of St Peter's College,
Cambridge, and formerly a student of this University,
who is accordingly declared to be duly elected ; and Mr.
Thomson being within call appeared in Faculty, and the
whole of this minute having been read over to him, he
agreed to the resolution of Faculty above recorded and
accepted the office.

    The next minute runs :--

     The Faculty hereby prescribe Mr. Thomson an essay
on the subject De caloris distributione per terrae corpus,
and resolve that his admission be on Tuesday the 1 3th
of October, provided that he shall be found qualified by
the meeting, and shall have taken the oath and made
the subscriptions which are required by law.

    On October 13 the Faculty met and made the

following resolution :--

     The minute of last meeting having been read, Mr.
William Thomson appeared and read a dissertation on

iv  THE GLASGOW CHAIR  185

the subject prescribed to him by the last meeting of
Faculty, viz. : De caloris distributione per terrae corpus.
The meeting having unanimously expressed their satisfac
tion with this trial essay, and Mr. Thomson having
produced a certificate signed by Walter Crum, J.P., of
his having taken the oaths to Government, and Mr.
Thomson having further promised to subscribe the formula
of the Church of Scotland as required by law on the first

convenient opportunity, the following oath was then

administered to him, which he then took and subscribed :
     " Ego, Gulielmus Thomson, B.A., physicus professor in

hac Academia designatus, promitto sancteque polliceor

me in munere mihi demandato studiose fideliterque

versaturum."

     Upon which Mr. Thomson was solemnly admitted

and received by all the members present, and took his
seat as a member of Faculty.

    As to the subject chosen by the Faculty for
Thomson's essay on his induction to office --the
movement of heat through the body of the earth
-- it was probably suggested either by Thomson

himself, or by his father, as being one which he

could readily write out as his dissertation. He

had already, in February 1844, printed in the Cam
bridge Mathematical Journal, vol. iv. pp. 67-72, a
" Note on some Points in the Theory of Heat."
It begins by saying that " in problems relative to
the motion of heat in solid bodies, the initial distribu

tion, which is entirely arbitrary, is usually one of
the data. When this is the case, and the circum

stances in which this body is placed are known,
the distribution at any subseqent period is fully

determined, and if our analysis had sufficient power
would become known in every case. It is in many

1 86  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

cases an interesting investigation to examine what

this expression becomes when negative values are

assigned to the time." This will at once be recog
nised as the same problem that Thomson had struck

in his earliest memoir (see p. 41 above). He went
on to consider mathematically three classes of cases

according to the convergency or otherwise of the
series of terms in the expression. In one of these

cases it is possible to assign a finite age to the given
initial distribution of heat, in another it will not be

possible to assign a limit, in a third the distribution

cannot be any stage except a first or initial stage.
He gave the mathematical criterion for any such
essentially initial distribution. When, in 1882,

Thomson included this paper in his volume of

reprints (vol. i. art. xi. p. 39), he prefixed to it the

following note :--

    An application to terrestrial temperature of the principle
set forth in the first part of this paper relating to the age
of thermal distributions, was made the subject of the
author's Inaugural Dissertation on the occasion of his
induction to the professorship of Natural Philosophy in
the University of Glasgow, in October 1846, De Motu
Caloris per Terrae Corpus ; which, more fully developed

afterwards, gave a very decisive limitation to the possible
age of the earth as a habitation for living creatures,
and proved the untenability of the enormous claims for

TIME which, uncurbed by physical science, geologists

and biologists had begun to make and to regard as
unchallengeable.

    Of the Latin dissertation, which was burned by
Thomson the same day, only one draft page exists.
The handwriting shows that his father had gone over

iv  THE GLASGOW CHAIR           187

it to correct the composition.  The text of it is as

follows :--

            De Distributione Caloris per Corpus Terrae.

     In caloris theoria mathematica, problemata saepe pro-
ponuntur in quibus data temperaturae distributione in
initio, distributio in quolibet temporis sequentis puncto
invenienda est. In plurimis horum problematum quaestio
oritur, an possibile sit, ad tempus aliquid datum, invenire
distributionem antecedentem ex qua distributio data
produceretur per motum liberum caloris. Si hoc fieri
potest, inveniendum est maximum temporis intervallum
inter distributionem datam et distributionem antecedentem
ex qua data derivari potest. Veruntamen distributio data
talis esse potest ut intervallum valorem maximum non
habere possit. Haec considerationes suggerunt omnes
distributiones quae possunt existere in tria genera redigi

posse ; sc.
     i. Distributiones quae e distributione antecedente pro-

duci nequeunt.
     ii. Distributiones quae produci possunt e distributio-

nibus determinatis existentibus in temporibus datis ante
tempus datarum distributionum, intervallis limites certos
haud excedentibus. . . .

    Thomson had but a month in which to compose

his dissertation. Probably this was the first occa
sion on which he had been required to write a Latin

composition since his student days in Ramsay's
class. Probably also he found little difficulty in the
task ; for the training of his youth in Literae Humani-
ores had been thorough, after the Scottish manner.
The illiterate science-graduate to whom the classical
tongue is anathema is a product of a more recent
age. The requirement of a Latin dissertation has

been dispensed with --and wisely --in these days ;

1 88 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

but, alas ! with its disappearance there has come into

the memoirs and theses of scientific writers, and

even of occupants of university chairs, a neglect of
precision in language and a slovenliness of composi

tion that would have horrified the worthy members

of Faculty of the year 1846. Of Lord Kelvin, at

least, it can be said that his training in classics
manifested itself throughout his life in a precision of
diction, and a nice appreciation of accuracy in the
use of terms, worthy of imitation by all who would

follow him in science.

    As to the theme of his dissertation : the " Age of

the Earth and its Limitation as determined from the

Distribution and Movement of Heat within it," this

was to be more fully and emphatically set forth in after-
years in his discourses on " Secular Cooling of the
Earth," and on " Geological Time," which gave rise

to the celebrated controversy with the geologists

(Chapter XIII.).     In the dissertation he suggested,
                   of mathematical principles, " that a
as an application

perfectly complete geothermic survey would give us

data for determining an initial epoch in the problem of

terrestrial conduction." This suggestion he amplified

at the meeting of the British Association in 1855.

The delight to Professor James Thomson in the

fulfilment of his ambition by the election of his son

to the chair of Natural Philosophy may well be

imagined ; and, happily, it has not been left un

recorded, for on the 12th September Dr. David

King wrote * from Glasgow to his wife :--

1 Memoir of the Rev. David King, LL.D., p. 246.

iv  THE GLASGOW CHAIR  189

     When I came up to Glasgow yesterday I was just in
time to receive the joyful news of William's unanimous

appointment to the chair of Natural Philosophy ! The
first announcement I had on the subject was your father's

face as he came out of the hall where the election had

been conducted. A face more expressive of delight was

never witnessed. The emotion was so marked and strong
that I only fear it may have done him injury.

    After the election Thomson went over to

Thornliebank to tell his cousins, Margaret Crum
and her brother Alexander, of his success ; and then

father and son went down to join the family party at
Knock, the scene of so many happy summers.

                  CHAPTER V

                          THE YOUNG PROFESSOR

ON November 1st, 1846, being then aged twenty-
two, William Thomson entered upon his duties as
professor of Natural Philosophy by reading a care
fully prepared introductory lecture on the scope and
methods of physical science. The original manu
script of this lecture, much revised in later years, is
still in existence, and from this the version now first
printed as an Appendix to the present chapter has
been taken. The lecturer began by stating a dis
tinction, often emphasised by him in other connec
tions, between the two stages of progress in science,
the " Natural History " stage and the " Natural
Philosophy " stage. The former is the descriptive
or observational stage, in which the discoverer or
narrator is busied with observing facts, cataloguing
and classifying them, and filling up the gaps revealed
in his natural classification. The latter stage is that
in which, the facts being already gathered together,
the investigator or teacher is concerned with dis
covering their mutual relations, and strives to bring
them within the sweep of general laws or causes.
General laws having been attained, they are then to

                                                                             190

CHAP, v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR                           191

be tested or further generalized by their application; it,
                                                   it
to discover fresh facts. The verification of such

deductions by experiment and observation establishes
the general laws or principles on a firm basis, and

entitles them to be called theories. The validity of

an induction is to be established by the pragmatical

test whether, if worked deductively also, it will lead
to new knowledge. These matters he illustrated by
reference to Kepler's laws of motion of the planets,
and to the verification afforded to the theory of
planetary motion by the discovery of Neptune in
consequence of the predictions of Adams and Le
Verrier. In the subsequent part of the lecture the

subject of dynamics was begun, and definitions laid
down ; stress being laid upon the distinction to be
observed between kinematics, the geometry of
 motion as considered apart from the forces which

 produce and kinetics, or dynamics proper, where
forces are considered also. Maxwell used to declare
 that when Thomson read this lecture its delivery
 took less than the allotted hour, and that the lecturer

 was greatly downhearted at its conclusion.
     On the first day of every subsequent session, the

 Natural Philosophy class was opened by the delivery
 of the same lecture. Although the well-worn manu

 script continued to do duty for over fifty years, the
 matter was not rigidly adhered to. Indeed, only
 twice, in 1871 and in 1880, was read through to
 the end and in the latter year there was much
 skipping of parts, with added digressions on the
 general problem of Dynamics and on Meteorology.

192  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                   CHAP.

In 1856, and in some other years, he omitted the pas

sage on Astronomy, including a now missing para
graph about the discovery of Neptune by Adams
and Le Verrier. In 1862 he added a note about

Geology and the Theory of Heat. In 1864 he read

nothing after the fifth page, but extemporised about

Meteorology and the use of Greek scientific terms.

In 1866 nearly all was omitted, and he spoke on the

Philosophy of Geology, on Materialism, and on the

love of discovery in science. When he came to the

passage on evidence of design he remarked that it

was "written twenty years before, sometimes omitted,

but never felt more strongly than now." In 1875

the address was read for him by Dr. Bottomley. I n
1878 he substituted " Dynamics" for " Mechanics "
wherever the word occurred. So late as 1895 he
added a correction on the fourth page of the manu

script. But if he began by reading from his written

discourse, he was sure to break away from  Some
if

    it
                 ;
                                                    a
                                                         a
                                                                                 it.
                                                                                      is
train of thought evoked by one or other of its phrases

led the lecturer away into digression. The new

discoveries in science, or some modernized way of
stating the old and familiar truths, would send him

off into an animated extempore discourse, and the

manuscript was forgotten and put aside. There

no denying the fact that as a lecturer he was not

methodical, as students expect university professor

to be or rather, his method was to pour out before

his students without restraint the immediate work

ings of his living thought, with an enthusiasm which,

     did not follow the strict and ordered lines of

v                    THE YOUNG PROFESSOR                                                 193

ordinary text-book teaching, was for those who were

able to follow him1 a veritable inspiration.

    The youthful professor -- fair- haired, slim, alert,

filled with a boyish enthusiasm for experiment, and

possessed with an almost feverish passion for sub

mitting everything to calculation --must have pre

sented an unusually attractive figure 2 in the dingy

purlieus of the old College. He found the material

adjuncts necessary to his teaching very inadequate
and antiquated. " When I entered upon the profes

sorship of Natural Philosophy at Glasgow," said Sir
"IWilliam Thomson8 in 1885,
                                                                    found apparatus of

a very old-fashioned kind, much of it was more than

a hundred years old, little of it was less than fifty

years old, and most of it was of worm-eaten

mahogany. Still, with such appliances, year after

year, students of Natural Philosophy had been

brought together and taught. The principles of

of   1   " It is, I  ebaerlliyevdea, ysq,uit"e   true," wrote Dr.   Hutchison, who was a member
    his                                         that a vast amount  of the abstruse teaching of Sir
          class in

William never reached the brain of the average student ; it might not perhaps

be too much to say that some students left the class without picking up any

thing at all. One unfortunate, for example, who in my time sat on bench 10,

has been heard to say, ' Well, I listened to the lectures on the pendulum for
a month, and all I know about the pendulum yet is that it wags.' Of course

sheer mental indolence far more than the thoroughness and abstruseness of the

teaching was here to blame. Sir William unfortunately believed that every

body could leam mathematics."                                         Dhi.mD.:,--o"f
      1            in March 1909, the
who      Writing  Glasgow University in         late Principal Lang,                  Aberdeen,  I
         entered                                1847, thus speaks of                  Nor can
honestly affirm that I greatly profited by the prelections of Professor William

Thomson. They were on too high a level for the majority of his students.

But William Thomson himself was an interesting study, and there could not
fail to be interesting hours in his class. In 1850 he was in the vigour of
youth, charming, with a face that shone, a figure lithe and graceful, distinc

tion stamped on the personality."
    * Address delivered at the opening of the Laboratories in University Co -
lege, Bangor, N. Wales, February 2, 1885 ; see Nature, vol. xxxi. p. 409,
Mar. 5, 1885 ; or Popular Lectures and Addresses, vol. ii. p. 475.

    VOL. I                                                                            O

194  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Dynamics and Electricity had been well illustrated

and well taught, as well as lectures and imperfect

apparatus -- but apparatus merely of the lecture-
illustration kind -- could teach. But there was

absolutely no provision of any kind for experimental
investigation, still less idea, even, for anything like
students' practical work." The young professor did

not lose much time in making known to the Faculty
the pressing needs of his department, and had an
immediate grant of ^100 to purchase instruments.

A Committee was also appointed by the Faculty to

see to this expenditure. Its report to the Faculty

on November 26, 1847, is as follows :--

       Natural Philosophy Class - Room and Instrument

                                            Committee.

     This Committee having carefully investigated and con
sidered the several applications made by the professor of
Natural Philosophy, which formed the subject of the remit
made to them at last meeting of Faculty, beg to report :

     1 . That the alterations on the platform of the class
room proposed by the professor of Natural Philosophy
are essentially necessary for the proper exhibition of the
various instruments and machines required for demonstra
tion to the students.

     2. The Faculty are aware that a purchase of instru
ments to a considerable amount was necessarily contem
plated at the time of Mr. Thomson's election to the chair
in question, seeing that this important department of the
institution had, from the age and infirmity of the late
professor, been almost if not entirely neglected for many
years. Accordingly the sum of £100 was last year, and
as a mere temporary measure, placed at the disposal of
Professor Thomson and your Committee, of which amount
£80 only were expended, showing the caution and cere

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR                     195

mony with which the purchase and selection of the

valuable instruments acquired was carried into effect.

Your Committee, therefore, submit that a similar amount

should be again placed at their disposal.

   3. That the present presses and boxes used for keeping

instruments pertaining to the Natural Philosophy class

room are, partly from age, and partly from faulty

construction, wholly inadequate for their preservation, and,

consequently, as the purchase of valuable and delicate

instruments without the means of preserving them is a

throwing away of money, your Committee submit that

immediate steps should be taken towards procuring proper

and sufficient accommodation, and of as portable a form

as possible, so as to obviate future expense and incon

venience ; and your Committee having taken estimates from

several tradesmen, beg to report that if a sum of £50 be
added to the £100 already mentioned they will be enabled

to carry these additions, together with the above-

mentioned alterations on the class-room, properly into

effect, and further, to make such purchases of instruments

as may be advisable for this year ; and your Committee
£ibeg to observe that this sum of
                                   50 ought, in fact, to be
considered only as £130, there being £20 of surplus from

the amounts voted last year.

   Further, your Committee think it proper to add to

this report, that though they most emphatically deprecate

all idea that such large annual expenditure is to be

regularly contemplated for any one department of the

College, yet they do not consider the present application

by any means excessive considering the present state of

the College funds and the very inadequate condition of the

department in question, which will yet require further

expenditure to put it in anything like fair and creditable

order. Lastly, your Committee cannot permit this oppor

tunity to pass without expressing to the Faculty their

satisfaction with the reasonable manner in which the pro

fessor of Natural Philosophy has on all occasions readily

modified his demands in accordance with the economical

suggestions of the Committee, who view his ardour and

196  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

anxiety in the prosecution of his profession with the

greatest pleasure, and who heartily concur in those antici
pations of his future celebrity which Monsr. Liouville, the

French mathematician, has recently thought fit to publish
to the scientific world.

                          ALLAN A. MACONOCHIE, Convener.
                          WILLIAM RAMSAY.

    The consideration of the report was postponed

till next meeting.

    yd December 1847. --The Faculty resumed considera

tion of the report of the Committee on the Natural
Philosophy class - room and apparatus, and having
approved of the terms of that report, agreed to place the
sum of £150 at the1 disposal of the Committee for the
purposes specified in their report ; and direct the Com
mittee to report from time to time the purchases they
have made, in order that the Faculty may have an oppor
tunity of forming a judgment with regard to the manner
in which the above sum is expended.

    As the months went on the activity of the pro

fessor and the exigencies of his department seem to

have led to some slight difficulty ; for a minute of

April 2nd, 1852, reads thus: --

     The Faculty agree to the recommendations of the
Committee to defray by two instalments the sum of

£137:6: 1^d., as the price of purchases of philosophical

apparatus already made. They approve of the suggestion
of the Committee that without the special interposition of
the Faculty's authority the expenditure on this behalf
during the next twelve months shall not be allowed to
exceed £50 ; and they desire that the purchases shall be
made so far as possible with the previously obtained
concurrence of the Committee.

    This appointment to the chair did not lessen

Thomson's powers of original thought ; indeed, his

v        THE YOUNG PROFESSOR                                                                   197

note-book shows many developments to have been

simmering in his brain. The following extract re
veals the germ of ideas that haunted him to his
dying day, and their occurrence at the very hour of

his entrance upon formal duties is suggestive.

   GLASGOW, October 31, 1846, 11.45 P-M- -- I have this

evening (in the middle of my work finishing an intrody-
lecture) after thinking on Faraday's discovery of the
effects of magnetism on transparent bodies and polarized

light, been recurring to my idea (which occurred to me in
the May term) which I had to give up, about magnetism
and electricity being capable of representation by the

straining of an elastic solid  constituted  in a                                   peculiar    way.
I think the following must
                               be true :--
   If particles along a closed curve of any form be dis

placed equal ooly small distances along the curve, the dis

                               of the medium, can be
a
                   a

                                        is
                                                      is

                                                                          p1'

                                                                   p''
                                                                                           is
placement produced, at any

represented in some way by means of the diff1 coeffts- of

the solid angle whose vertex the and base the closed

curve. This solid £. the potential due to the action of

   voltc- current, circulating in the closed curve, as known.

   Then bar magnet would be represented by an axis

...turned round in the elastic solid so as to drag points of
the solid round along with                                                         am not at all
                  I            etc.             I
                        I it,
sure of anything have written just now, but want to
         .                                                                         I
              .

               I
get out of my head, as have no time to spare during
   it

--the session..

   November 28, 10.15 P.M.     have at last succeeded in

working out the mechanico-cinematical  I        representation of

electric, magnetic, and galvanic {""·      (!)yesterday evening

wrote to Cayley the two first, but          I   have only this

moment got out the last case.
   ...Incompressible elastic solid
.... . .                                                                         Electric Forces.
         §
                                                                        §         III. Galvanic

                                                          I.

                                                                                §
         II. Magnetic Forces.

Forces.

     [Here follow two pages of equations ending with the
equation of continuity.]

198      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN           CHAP.

   November 29, 2.45 A.M. -- I have just completed a

paper for the Journal on this subject.

    This paper, which duly appeared in the Journal
early in 1847, with the title "On a Mechanical

Representation of Electric, Magnetic, and Galvanic

Forces," was a remarkable attempt to formulate a

mechanical theory in terms of the equations of

equilibrium of an elastic solid, magnetic forces being

represented by angular displacements.  The paper

concludes with these words :--

    I should exceed my present limits were I to enter into
a special examination of the states of a solid body repre

senting various problems in electricity, magnetism, and
galvanism, which must therefore be reserved for a future

occasion.

It remains to add that the "future occasion" did

not occur till 1889 !

The diary from December 30, 1846, to March 24,

1847, is occupied with diamagnetic problems, the

drift of which is to demonstrate the correctness of

Faraday's views on the subject.

March 29, 1847. -- I have found to-day that H. Jacobi
(Taylor's Scientific Memoirs, vol.
                                    has observed the cir
                                    i.)
                                             in

                                                                        a
cumstance which limits the power of an electromagnetic

engine.

On December 2, 1846, Thomson was elected

member of the (Royal) Philosophical Society of Glas

gow, to the proceedings of which he contributed

down to its centenary celebration      1902. His

first communication was in April 1847, when he

gave an account of Stirling's Air-Engine, exhibiting

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR  199

a model, and explaining the cycle of operations, con
cluding with the singular deduction that water at its
freezing-point may be converted to ice without the
expenditure of any work.

    He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society
of Edinburgh on February 1, 1847.

    In February, too, Thomson visited J. D. Forbes

at Edinburgh University, to witness some experi
ments with electric light in his lecture-room. These

he describes as very brilliant.

    In those days the session of a Scottish University
lasted for but six months, from November 1st to

May 1st, thus leaving the students free in the
summer to earn their living, and the professors at
liberty for research or recreation as might seem best.
For the first few years of his professorship Thomson

used to repair to Cambridge for the first six or eight

weeks of the summer half-year. To renew his col

loquies with Hopkins or Stokes ; to make acquaint

ance with the younger men-- Steele, Maxwell, and
Tait amongst them -- who were working at mathe

matical physics ; to row again in an eight-oar boat,
or take his old place as second horn in the Univer

sity orchestra, were attractions not to be resisted.
There were also the meetings of the Cambridge

Philosophical Society, and the high mid-summer
pomps of the May week in the Colleges. Later in

the season he would be preparing for, or attending,

the meeting of the British Association. All of this

might be varied with the pleasures of a foreign tour
with some selected friend. The early autumn would

200  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

find him back in Scotland, joining some family group
in a country resort in Arran, or at Knock Castle, or
the Gareloch, or he might be boating on the Clyde,
until the closing days of October summoned him

back to his duties at the University. To some

degree this programme changed as his research and
laboratory work at Glasgow grew and became more

absorbing.
    On his appointment to the professorship in Glas

gow he had returned to reside in his father's house,
" No. 2 the College," one of the best of the pro
fessors' residences in the dingy quadrangle of the

old College, with back windows that looked out
over the most horrible of slum properties ' that can
be imagined. Professor James Thomson was now
sixty years of age, his widowed sister-in-law, Mrs.
Gall, being his housekeeper. The eldest son, James,
was still living under the parental roof ; ill-health for

some time proved a barrier to his pursuing his pro
fession as a civil engineer, but he occupied his time

profitably with scientific investigation and mechanical
contrivances ; the work then accomplished as a semi-
invalid bore fruit in after-years, for it led up to some

of his discoveries and inventions. The daughters,
Elizabeth and Anna, now Mrs. King and Mrs.
Bottomley, were in homes of their own with healthy,

    1 The late Principal Lang of Aberdeen thus wrote of it :-- " In the 'forties

of last century the environment was wretched -- a congested mass of gloomy
tenements, narrow lanes, squalid courts, in which day and night might be
heard shrill cries and foul and blasphemous words. One of the worst of these

lanes was called the Havannah, and I remember being horrified when I first en

countered the miserable specimens of humanity that emerged from its purlieus.
But, however bad the neighbourhood was, the buildings themselves had an
impressive old-world dignity."

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR  201

happy children, Elizabeth in Glasgow, Anna in
Belfast. The two younger sons, John (who died,
alas ! too early after a brilliant course as a medical

student) and Robert, were still living at home.
William's return might well bring life and gaiety
into that remarkable household. There were cousins,

too, Grahams, Crums, and others connected by family
ties, living near and within reach. Mr. Walter
Crum, of Thornliebank, had a large family of young
people. From their first removal to Glasgow from
Belfast the Thomsons had visited at Thornliebank ;

and the young people as they grew up used to see
much of one another at parties and dances, or taking

rides together.
    Thomson rejoiced greatly when the labours of his

first session were ended. To his sister Anna he
wrote :--" You need not go to infer that I am an

unhappy person, I am really quite the reverse, and

nothing but cutting another tooth could make me
anything else when I have the prospect of six
months' absolute and unmitigated enjoyment before
me. I am looking forward even with greater
pleasure to Cambridge than to Switzerland, and so
you may imagine what a pleasant summer I am

to have."

    May of 1847 saw Thomson back at Peterhouse,
revisiting his friends, examining for his College,
playing in the C.U.M.S. concert, and delighted to
occupy his old rooms looking out on the Grove.
He wrote to his brother James of his doings :--

202          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                          CHAP.

                                                                  ST. PETER'S COLLEGE,

                                                                 June 1 1, 1847.

    MY DEAR JAMES -- I returned yesterday from London,

where I spent a week very pleasantly, and I am now going
to settle down as much as I can till after the installation,
as I am really anxious to get some papers written that I
have had on my mind for a long time. I shall, however,

be sadly interrupted by the meeting of the British Associa

tion at Oxford which commences on the 23rd. Immedi
ately after the installation, that is to say about 8th July, I

shall start for Paris, and after remaining there for a few

days I shall go to Switzerland, probably commencing

along with Mr. and Mrs. Tom Shedden. On my way to or
from Oxford I think I shall be able to see the apparatus

of the Royal Institution (where Faraday lectures) in
London along with the instrument maker who made it all,

and as it seems to be on the best possible scale for a

lecture room it will be of great use to me. I heard a

lecture of Faraday's on Saturday, and had some conversa

tion with him afterwards. I think I shall probably see a
good deal more of him at Oxford, and afterwards, as his

lectures end to-morrow, he will have some time to spare.

Gordon J was away from town during my visit, but I hope
to see him again soon. I think it is very likely he will

remain in London and give up his professorship.

    I heard Jenny Lind, and was as much delighted as
possible in every way with her. I also was present at a

rehearsal and concert of the Philharmonic Society along

with some of my Cambridge friends who were in London

at the same time, and I got several lessons on the French

horn, and I  have bought a horn     with pistons, which   I  did
not possess                        affectionate brother,
             --before. . . . Your

                                   WILLIAM THOMSON.
P.S. -- If possible persuade papa to come to Oxford.

I have ! ! ! just heard to-day that Fischer has been unani

mously elected ! ! ! at St. Andrews : that is old news, how

ever, I suppose.

    1 Lewis Gordon, first professor of Engineering in the University of
Glasgow.

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR                                                         203

   More is told of the trip to London in a letter

from J. B. Dykes to one of his sisters.

   Last Thursday, Wray, Thomson, and I left Cambridge

for London, and in the evening, of course, all went to hear

Jenny Lind. . . . The next day we went to the Exhibi

tion, and very much I was pleased. We saw divers other
things, and dined at Wray's rooms. . . . After that I

went with Thomson to the Royal Institution, Albemarle

Street, and he got Faraday to introduce us to his lecture,

which took place a little after three. There was a most

fashionable attendance, and  Pahimloossotphinyt--erecshtienmg istleryc,tutroe   on
divers branches of Natural                                                     wit,

acoustics, electricity, etc. That done we went again to

Wray's to dinner, and afterwards went out to divers mathe

matical instrument makers to look over all the new in

struments which are being invented, and to get some for

the Glasgow College.

   This lecture was the last of a course on Physico-

Chemical Philosophy.

     On returning to Cambridge, Thomson wrote to
Faraday: --

                                              ST. PETER'S COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE,

                                                        June 1 1, 1847.

    MY DEAR SIR -- I enclose the paper which I men

tioned to you as giving an analogy for the electric and
magnetic forces by means of the strain, propagated
through an elastic solid. What I have written is merely
a sketch of the mathematical analogy. I did not venture
even to hint at the possibility of making it the foundation
of a physical theory of the propagation of electric and

magnetic forces, which, if established at all, would express

as a necessary result the connection between electrical

and magnetic forces, and would show how the purely
statical phenomena of magnetism may originate either
from electricity in motion, or from an inert mass such as

a magnet. If such a theory could be discovered, it would

also, when taken in connection with the undulatory theory

204  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

of light, in all probability explain the effect of magnetism

on polarized light.

    I have only just returned to Cambridge, and so I have

not had time to look for the paper to which you kindly
sent me a reference. I have lately received a number of a
Pisa Journal, containing a paper by Matteucci on electro-

statical induction, in which the author seems to endeavour

to resolve your results into effects of conduction ; and I

suppose this is the paper you alluded 'to in speaking to

me. I have not quite been able to learn its contents yet,
as I do not understand the language, and it is not en

livened by any a?s cry's.

    I should consider it a great favour if you would allow

your assistant to show me some of the lecture room

apparatus belonging to the Royal Institution, when I am

in London on my way to or from Oxford, or at any other

convenient time. As I am now Professor of Natural

Philosophy at Glasgow, and have had a session's experi
ence of the inadequacy of our apparatus, I am anxious to
learn as much as I can about good apparatus, and how to

procure it. -- I remain, yours very truly,
                                              WILLIAM THOMSON.

     Prof. Faraday.

    On June 20 he writes from Peterhouse to his
father about the approaching meeting of the British

Association :--

    I shall be at Pembroke College, Oxford (care of the

Rev. Bartholomew Price, who is one of the secretaries of
Section A, and has kindly offered me hospitality), from
Wed. the 23rd till Tuesday the 2pth, and after that at
Peterhouse till about the loth of July. I am enjoying

myself very much here at present as it is remarkably
quiet, and I really have for a week found a little time for

myself. I have been getting out various interesting pieces
of work, along with Stokes, connected with some problems
in electricity, fluid motion, etc., that I have been thinking
on for years, and I am now seeing my way better than I

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR  205

could ever have done by myself, or with any other person
than Stokes.

    In July 1847 Thomson attended the meeting of

the British Association at Oxford, memorable, as is

to be subsequently narrated (p. 264), for his meeting

with Joule. At Oxford also he again met Faraday,

who gave the second of the evening discourses, his
subject being " Magnetic and Diamagnetic Pheno
mena." After Oxford Thomson went to London

on his way to the Continent. From Paris he wrote
to his brother James, who was then busy with the

water-turbine that he had invented.

                                                       PARIS, July 22, 1847.

   MY DEAR JAMES --[The letter begins with a long and

interesting description of water wheels, and reference to

M. Poncelet.]
     Since Monday I have been as busy as possible (before

that I could find nobody and got nothing done), com

mencing by calling on Le Verrier, to whom I had been

introduced at Cambridge by Mrs. Hopkins. He engaged

me to go to Mr. Milne-Edwards in the evening, with

whom he and Struve were going to dine. I breakfasted

with him next morning, and he took me and Struve and

a little son of his own to Versailles, where we were for

the day ; but before I breakfasted with him I saw part of

the Cabinet de physique of the Polytechnic, to which he

got me admitted, and made engagements with Regnault

the pr£parateur at the Polytechnic. I have been all day,

to-day, and a good part of yesterday at Marloye's shop,

where I ordered a quantity of acoustical apparatus.

Mdmt Dubret is away for two months. I start for Geneva

to-morrow at 10.30.     W. T.

    He stayed a month at Geneva, making acquaint
ance with the university professors, taking lessons

206  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

 in French, and " trying to get on " with a memoir
 on electrical images. On August 22 he sent word
 home that he would leave on the morrow via

 Sallenches for Cluses, from which he would walk to

 Sixte, there to meet Auguste Balmat, who was to
 take him on to Chamounix over the Col d'Anterne.
 On August 29 he was at Chamounix, where he met
 Joule, with whom he experimented at the cascade
of Sallenches. He visited the Great St. Bernard,
then up the Valais, walking from Sion to Sierre, and
over the Gemmi to the Oberland. On September
 1 2 he wrote from the Faulhorn to Liouville a letter
containing some " first ideas and physical especially
hydrodynamical demonstrations " of certain theorems
on magnetism. These were unfortunately lost, and
were not written out again until 1871 for the article
entitled "Inverse Problems" (p. 453 of the reprint
of Papers on Electrostatics and Magnetism).

    In this year he had two mathematical papers in

Liouville's Journal, and four other short papers of
great importance in the Cambridge and Dublin
Mathematical Journal, besides two which he read
at the British Association, on " Electric Images "
and " On the Electric Currents by which the Pheno
mena of Terrestrial Magnetism may be Produced."
The latter was a discussion of an ingenious "means of
constructing an electro-magnetic model of the earth."

    On September 27 he was back at Cambridge,
and visited Ireland before November brought the
winter session at Glasgow. His diary of November
20 shows him at work :--

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR  207

     To-day (having commenced extra lectures on Theory
of Attrn.), in thinking on the best way of putting all
investigations on attrn. of spheres into a geometrical form
(banishing the notation of the diff. calc., and the potential

method), I found the following theorem. [There follows
a draft of propositions published in the Journal.]

    In March 1848 he was working at a new abso
lute thermometric scale with the help of his pupil
Steele. After Easter he was again at Cambridge
lecturing, examining, and playing in the C. U.M.S.
orchestra. In May he wrote to his sister that he
was now a Master of Arts and wore the Master's
gown. To the Cambridge Philosophical Society
he communicated also a paper on an Absolute
Thermometric Scale founded on Carnot's Theory,
of which more in the next chapter. He also contri
buted several papers to the Cambridge and Dublin
Mathematical Journal, including two " Notes on
Hydrodynamics," and some articles on the " Theory
of Electricity in Equilibrium," already mentioned on
p. 142 above. In June he again visited Faraday
in London, and on leaving wrote him the following
letter :--

                WILLIAM THOMSON to FARADAY

                                                      BORLEY RECTORY, SUDBURY,
                                                    SUFFOLK, June 27, 1848.

    MY DEAR SIR -- Since I had the conversation with you

last week I have been reconsidering the subject with some
care, and I am quite satisfied that the theoretical views
which I then mentioned are correct. I should not, how

ever, expect that it would be at all easy, or perhaps
possible, to verify experimentally the result that a needle

208  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

of a diamagnetic substance tends to arrange itself in the
direction of the lines of force, when in a situation where

there is no sensible variation of magnetic intensity through
the space in which it is free to move, since this tendency
arises from the mutual influence of the different portions
of the diamagnetic substance itself, and is consequently
excessively slight. An experiment showing that a dia
magnetic needle will be sensibly astatic when the intensity

in its neighbourhood is nearly constant would be extremely
interesting, as so far confirming the conclusions deduced

from theory ; but I fear that a complete verification would
be unattainable on account of the excessive feebleness of
the force of which the existence is to be tested.

     The same process of mathematical reasoning enables
us to infer that a needle of soft iron and a needle of a

diamagnetic substance would both rest stably in the
direction of the lines of force, or unstably in a perpen

dicular direction ; but in the former case the directive

tendency is extremely sensible, so much so that it may

be easily verified by observing the position which a
delicately suspended needle of soft iron will assume when

acted upon only by the earth.
     I have not yet had an opportunity of referring to

Poggendorff to find the account of the remarkable researches
which you mentioned to me, but as soon as I return to

Cambridge I shall read it with great interest. . . .-- I

remain, dear sir, very truly yours,
                                              WILLIAM THOMSON.

     From Scotland, in August, he sent to the British
Association meeting at Swansea two papers. One
of these was on the " Equilibrium of Magnetic or
Diamagnetic Bodies under the Influence of Mag
netic Force," the other on the " Theory of Electro-
Magnetic Induction." The first of these was a
brief abstract of a longer research afterwards pub

lished by the Royal Society, the second an expansion

v           THE YOUNG PROFESSOR     209

of Neumann's mathematical statement of Faraday's

law.

    In October Thomson's elder sister Mrs. King,

being in weak health, was ordered to Jamaica.

William Thomson accompanied her and Dr. King
on the steamer as far as Ailsa, returning with the

tug to Greenock.

    The winter of 1848-49 was marked by a visita
tion of cholera, from which Glasgow with its in
sanitary slums did not escape. Its ravages spread
far, and amongst its victims was Professor James
Thomson. " I have sad intelligence to give you,"
William wrote to his brother-in-law Dr. King on
January 12, 1849. " We have lost our father. He
died this afternoon at two o'clock. . . . On the

Sunday night he became delirious, and since that

time he has been gradually sinking in strength. I

could not believe last night at this time that we
were to lose him. . . . But God has willed it for

the best, and has tried us with a heavy affliction.

. . . It is a terrible and irreparable loss, and a sad

void is now left."
    After this sorrowful event Thomson continued

to reside at No. 2, The College, his aunt Mrs. Gall
keeping house for him.

    A glimpse of the young professor is afforded by
the autobiographical notes of Professor John Nichol
in a passage written in 1861 :--

    During my first session (1848-49) I attended the
experimental course of the Natural Philosophy, taught
by the young Mr., now the famous Dr. William Thomson.

   VOL. I.                       P

210                LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                        CHAP.

The lectures I heard were on electricity and magnetism.

I took careful notes, read, thought, and made experiments
on subjects which interested me intensely. I was regularly

examined during the course, and gave in my name for a
series of special examinations at the end. The result

was that I got one of the two prizes which were offered
at the close of the year, and made my first appearance on
the platform on the I st of May, under the auspices of my
old playfellow's brother. I remember his handing me
the prize with the phrase, " A very young, but very

ardent, natural philosopher."

    Thomson had big things in hand. On January
2, 1849, he had read to the Royal Society of Edin
burgh a paper on "Carnot's Theory of Heat,"

the significance of which is discussed in the
chapter on Thermodynamics (p. 269). He was
struggling to clear Carnot's acute reasoning from

the assumptions which underlay
                   it                                         assumptions
                                            is
                                                         it,
which had been undermined by the investigations

of Joule. To-day this paper     of interest princi

pally so far as reveals Thomson's mind in this

transition stage of the doctrines as to the nature of

heat.

In March he was with Forbes in Edinburgh

discussing underground temperatures. In April

he filled six pages of his mathematical note-book

with discussion of the action of pointed conductors
       a
               it
in promoting electric discharges, intending to com

municate to the British Association in July.                  It

has never been published, however.

In June Thomson presented to the Royal Society

of London (his first communication to that august

body),  a  very elaborate memoir, an abstract of

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR  211

which appeared in the Proceedings for June 1849,

entitled "A Mathematical Theory of Magnetism."

Important as his earlier papers in mathematical
physics had been, they were for the most part brief
and disconnected. The most methodical of them

were those on the mathematical theory of electricity
which he had written apparently because he could
find no published work in which the principles were
stated (to use his own words) " in a sufficiently
concise and correct form, independently of any
hypothesis, to be altogether satisfactory in the
present state of science." He now set himself to
perform a like service for the theory of magnetism.
Poisson had, indeed, following the lines of Lagrange's
Mdcanique analytique, published in 1821 an analytical
theory of magnetism ; but it was based on the hypo
thetical existence of magnetic fluids. Moreover,

during the years 1845-48 Faraday had announced
new magnetic discoveries of the most fundamental

kind --the action of magnetism on polarized light,

and the diamagnetic repulsion of bismuth and other
metals. Also Pliicker had investigated the relations
between magnetism and the crystalline structure of
bodies. Thomson had, therefore, plenty of experi
mental material on which to exercise his thoughts.
He had listened to Faraday discoursing at Oxford
in 1847 on magnetic and diamagnetic phenomena.
Later, when on visits to London, he seldom failed

to call at the Royal Institution to see Faraday in
his laboratory, and discuss with him * the latest

                 1 See pp. 203 and 207 above, for the letters of this date.

212  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

investigations. He was now to reduce to precise
mathematical form --in terms of the analysis which
he had learned from Green and from the great
French mathematicians --the theory of magnetism

freed from all unnecessary hypothetical assump

tions. So with an obvious sense of the importance
of the task he was undertaking, he set himself to

formulate the theory with a systematic and methodi

cal exposition hardly attempted in any previous

paper, and certainly never afterwards repeated.
Whereas in his later life most of his original com

munications to the learned societies were rough

drafts, usually in pencil, sometimes indeed copied
out by an amanuensis, but often consisting of a
few leaves torn from his note-book, in the present

instance the manuscript was written in a bold and

almost stately hand on large quarto pages, bearing

a sense of importance. As Thomson was not
yet a Fellow, it was formally communicated to
the Society by Lieut. -Col. Sabine, then Foreign
Secretary (later President) of the Society.

    The memoir begins by explaining how, since the
notion of magnetic fluids had become excessively
improbable in the light of recent discoveries, the
theory of magnetism may now be established upon
the sole foundation of facts generally known, and
the experimental researches of Coulomb in especial.
The first chapter was devoted to preliminary defini
tions and explanations. In the second chapter a
method of specifying the intensity and direction of
the magnetization was formulated. In the third

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR                                        213

chapter, by a method of investigation akin to that
used by Fourier in constructing the equation of
motion of heat in a conducting body, a plan was
found for representing the polarity of a magnet by
the distribution of imaginary magnetic matter, lead

ing to formulae which agree with Poisson's, and to
expressions in chapter four, analogous to those of
Laplace and of Green, for the mutual actions between
any two finite portions of magnetized matter. This
opened out the prospect of a further investigation l
of the " mechanical value " of any given distribution
of magnetism. The fifth chapter, communicated in

June of 1850, dealt with two ways of regarding
magnetic distributions. In the first of them the

magnet was considered as made up of filamentary
magnets laid side by side, so that the poles of all
the filaments constituted the surface-distribution of

the magnetism. In the second it was regarded as

represented by equivalent electrical currents circu
lating around the polar areas. Thomson assigned
the names of " solenoidal " and " lamellar " respec
tively to these two distributions, the properties of

which were then investigated. A sixth chapter,

" On Electromagnets " (using that term in its most
general sense as including any circuit traversed by
an electric current), was written in 1849, but not
published2 till 1871, when also chapters seven

("On Mechanical Values"), eight (" Hydrokinetic
Analogy"), and nine ("Inverse Problems"), of

    1 See the article, dated January 1872, in Electrostatics  and Magnetism,
P- 432-

    'J Electrostatics and Magnetism, §§ 524-554.

214      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                          CHAP.

which last a sketch had been given at Oxford in       I.,
 1847. Chapter ten (" Magnetic Induction"), which

had been originally planned as Part II. of this

memoir, was for some reason not communicated to

the Royal Society, but published in the Philo
sophical Magazine in March 1851. Here, again,
Thomson's aim was to reconstruct the theory of the

magnetism received by bodies during induction,
without resorting to any hypotheses such as that of

fluids, and to apply it to cases where the crystalline
nature of the body might give it different magnetic

susceptibilities in different directions. This article
is notable for its precision of definition and its
announcement of the principle of superposition. In
it Thomson brought out the notion of a magnetic
inductive capacity in the material. The name
" susceptibility," which is now preferred, and the

other term "permeability," for the "conducting
power for lines of magnetic force," were not coined
by him till 1872.

    The importance of this memoir was at once
recognized. It was accorded full publication in the

Philosophical Transactions, vol. cxli., 1851, Part

pp. 243-286.
    Thomson wrote to Faraday supporting his views

on diamagnetic forces --
         :

                          32 DUKE STREET, ST. JAMES',
                                   Saturday, June 9.

                       our conversation to-day have
MY DEAR  SIR -- After                         1

                                                   I

been thinking again on the subject of bar of diamag
                                     Ia
netic non-crystalline substance, in         field of magnetic
                                           a
force which naturally uniform, and believe can now
     is                                       I

                 THE YOUNG PROFESSOR               215

show you that your views lead to the conclusion I had

arrived at otherwise, that such a bar, capable of turning

round an axis, would be set stably with its length along

the lines of force. As I may not have another oppor
tunity of seeing you again before you leave town, I hope

you will excuse my continuing our conversation by

writing a few lines on the subject.

     Let the diagram represent a field of force naturally
uniform, but influenced by the presence of a ball of

diamagnetic substance. It is clear that in
the localities A and B the lines of force

will be less densely arranged, and in the
localities D and C they will be more

densely arranged than in the undisturbed

field. Hence a second ball placed at A

or at B would meet and disturb fewer lines     rj

than if the first ball were removed ; but

second ball placed at D or C would meet and

disturb more lines of force than if the first

ball were removed. It follows that two equal

balls of diamagnetic substance would produce

more disturbance on the lines of force of the

field if the line joining their centres is perpen
dicular to the lines of force than if it is parallel to them.

But the disturbance produced by a diamagnetic substance
is an effect of worse " conducting power,"

and the less of such an effect the better.

Hence two balls of diamagnetic substance,

fixed to one another by an un magnetic             oD

framework, would, if placed obliquely and

allowed to turn freely round an axis, set

with the line joining their centres along the

lines of force.

The same argument, for a contrary

reason, shows that two balls of soft iron

similarly arranged would set with the line joining their
centres also along the lines of force. For this position

more disturbance is produced on the lines of force than in

any other, but now the more disturbance (being of better

216           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                   CHAP.

" conduction ") the better.  Hence the conclusion.  Of

course similar conclusions follow for bars, or elongated

masses, of the substances.

I can never, however, make any assertion regarding

the tendency of a diamagnetic bar in a uniform field

without repeating that I believe no experiments can make

it sensible.  I doubt even whether the corresponding

tendency in the case of a neutral bar in as strong a solu

tion of sulphate of iron as could be got could be rendered

sensible by actual experiments, as excessively slight

deviations from uniformity in the field would entirely

mask the results of this tendency, even if by themselves

they might produce appreciable effects. -- I remain, my

dear sir, yours very truly,  WILLIAM THOMSON.

M. Faraday, Esq.

    He followed this with a second letter :--

                                              9 BARTON STREET, WESTMINSTER,

                                                   July 24, 1849.

    MY DEAR SIR -- In the conversation which we had
about the beginning of this month I mentioned several

objects of experimental research which occurred to me as
of much importance with reference to a theory of Diamag
netic, and, still more, of Magnecrystallic, action. I now
take the liberty of addressing to you a few memoranda
on the subject.

    1. If a ball, cut out of a crystal of bismuth, be placed

so as to be repelled by a magnet, will the repulsion not

be stronger when the magnecrystallic axis is held perpen
dicular to the lines of force than when it is held in the
direction of these lines. (Reference to §2552 of your
Researches.)

    2. It would be a valuable acquisition to our experi
mental elements if a ball cut from a crystal of bismuth

were suspended in the manner described by you in §255 1,
and experiments were made by varying the length of the
lever, and altering the general disposition so as to per

ceive cases in wh the tendency to move, due to the

v             THE YOUNG PROFESSOR               217

repulsive action, might be exactly balanced by a tendency

to move in the contrary direction arising from the magne-

crystallic action. A sketch, with dimensions, of the

arrangements in any such case of equilibrium would be

most valuable.

    3. In such a case as the preceding, if the strength of

the magnet (a pure electro-magnet without soft iron would
be the most satisfactory kind for such an experiment) be

increased or diminished, will the equilibrium remain undis

turbed ?

     4. Is the repulsion on a non-crystalline or crystalline
diamagnetic ball or the attraction on a ferro-magnetic ball

exactly proportional to the square of the strength of the

magnet ? Thus in any case of pure repulsion, or of pure
attraction, if the strength of the magnet be doubled,

would the force be quadrupled ; if the strength of the

magnet be increased threefold would the force be in

creased ninefold ? In this investigation, as in the pre

ceding, a pure electro-magnet would be the best, since in

such a magnet the strength may be altered in any ratio,

which ratio may be measured with much precision by a

torsion galvanometer, while the character and form of the

lines of force remains absolutely invariable.

     5. How are crystals of magnetic iron ore related to
other crystals in their magnetic properties ? Are they
intrinsically polar, or are they merely axial ? For

example,      supposing that to be possible, a crystal of
   I
              I a if,

                                 ?

                                 it
magnetic iron ore have its polarity reversed, will remain
                                                it ? it

                                                        if

                                                                   a
permanently magnetized in this reverse way or,

crystal of magnetic iron be demagnetized, will  remain

non-magnetic    Will                 not, in virtue of an intrinsic

tendency to magnetization, gradually become magnetized

in its original way?

   have small ball of loadstone from the island of

Elba which have employed in place of needle in
                                               a
                                                          a

                                                                       is a
torsion galvanometer, and which appears to be susceptible

of inductive action like soft iron (returning apparently to

its primitive magnetic state when the inducing magnet

removed), and to be susceptible of this action to greater

218  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

degree when its axis is along the lines of inducing force
than when it is perpendicular to them. My means of
experimenting are, however, so very limited that I cannot

be confident with reference to any such conclusions.

    My intended departure for Norway, of wh I spoke to
you, has been necessarily delayed for a fortnight by

important and unexpected business. I hope to-morrow,

however, to be on my way to Copenhagen by steamer.

    I hope you are at present enjoying a pleasant and
refreshing tour, as I heard to-day at the Royal Institution

that you are travelling.

     Believe me, my dear sir, yours very truly,

                                                WILLIAM THOMSON.

    After the reading of this memoir to the Royal
Society on June 21st, 1849, Thomson remained for
some time in England. He went down in July to
Plymouth to visit Sir William Snow Harris, and to
examine Cavendish's then unpublished manuscripts

on electricity. Apparently he did not attend the
meeting of the British Association, held that year at
Birmingham, but took a tour in Scandinavia with
his former tutor Frederick Fuller, and Norman

Macpherson, afterwards Professor in Edinburgh.
They reached Christiania about the middle of August.
Thomson writes that he has met Ole Bull, who had

played his violin to them in his own rooms : he
has also met Langberg, Professor of Natural Philos
ophy, who, being also a director of the theatre, has
to go every night for a week to superintend the
lighting of the lamps ! They bought three carioles,
with which they travelled through Southern Norway,
visiting Drammen and Konksberg, and eventually
crossing into Sweden. They met Professors Malm

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR  219

stdn and Svenberg in Upsala. From Stockholm,

which he describes as "by far the most beautiful
city I have ever seen," on September 2Oth,

Thomson dispatched to the Mathematical Journal

one of his geometrical investigations on the equili
brium of electricity in a sphere electrified by

influence. On returning he visited his sister Mrs.

Bottomley, at Belfast, before settling down for the

winter session in Glasgow. An account of his
doings was sent by him thence to Mrs. King.

                                           FORTBREDA, BELFAST, Oct. 15, 1849.

    I shall give you a short history of myself from the 1st

of May to the present time.
     I suppose you know that I went to Cambridge almost

immediately after the distribution of prizes. The only
delay which I suffered was a short visit of about two days
to Meadowbank, which I enjoyed very much, although I was
impatient to get to Cambridge. I saw James and got
dinner from him in his lodgings on my way through
London, and got to Cambridge about the 4th of May. I
found all my friends there very well, and met with a very
kind reception. The " May term " is usually very gay at
Cambridge, and ' my time was a good deal taken up with
the University Musical Society, for which I played, as of
old, in two concerts, and with other similar engagements.
I had my friend and former pupil Pollock staying with
me in my rooms for about a fortnight. I had also a
short visit from William Ker, who spent a Saturday after
noon, Sunday, and Monday morning with me. . . . Mr.

and Mrs. Maconochie1 also visited Cambridge and spent

ten days there in lodgings which I had taken for them in
Fitzwilliam Street. They were constantly with me and
Mr. and Mrs. Hopkins, and the whole family were much

    1 Professor Allan A. Maconochie, Professor of Jurisprudence in Glasgow
University, 1842-1855.

220  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                   CHAP.

pleased with them, and were very glad to show them a

great deal of attention.

Cambridge, as you know, always becomes deserted

immediately after the College examinations which take

place about the end of May. I had undertaken a good
deal of work in the way of " setting" examination papers
and conducting the examinations, and I had besides, in
the first half of the month, to complete a paper on " The

Motive Power of Heat" for the Edinburgh Royal Society,

so that my time was not entirely spent on music and

gaiety. When the quiet time commenced I began my
paper on " Magnetism," and worked hard at it till the

2Oth of June at Cambridge. . . .
    After this digression I must return to London on the

2Oth of June, where I arrived and took up my quarters

in James's lodgings. I was very glad to be with him
again, as I had seen him very little since our father's
death on account of his leaving Glasgow so soon. I
remained there till the 25th of July, with the exception of
three or four days spent very pleasantly at Plymouth on
a visit to Sir W. Snow Harris, the " electrician," and two

very brief visits to Cambridge. One of these was to

make arrangements with Fuller about the Scandinavian

tour which he intended to make, and in which he per

suaded me to join him. He went away early in July,
but I could not go with him on account of a piece of

business connected with a small Government grant of

...money for my apparatus room, with which, along with
Mr. Maconochie, I was occupied in London.  I left

London on the morning of Wednesday the 25th in the
steamer Camilla, for Copenhagen, overtook Fuller at

Christiania, had a refreshing and in every way delightful

...tour with him in Norway and Sweden, returned by Ham
burg, where we stayed three days.  I arrived in

London on Monday morning October 1st, got all I had

to do over as quickly as possible, and went to Cambridge
on Tuesday night. There I saw my friends, and was as

usual most kindly received. I also had several College
friends to see, and a great deal to say to all. I got my

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR  221

business executed with the utmost diligence, and went on
Friday at 1 1 h. 1 3 min. by the night train to Hull. Next

day I went to Goodmanham Rectory to see Blow, who is

curate to his father. . . .
     I arrived here last Friday morning and found all well.

. . .--Your ever affectionate brother,

                                               WILLIAM THOMSON.

    In this year he contributed two more Notes to
the Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal.

    The year 1850 witnessed James Thomson's sin
gular prediction of the lowering by pressure of the
melting-point of ice, and William Thomson's ex
perimental verification of his brother's prediction.
William wrote to Faraday, on January loth and

January 14th, two letters describing his experiments.

On January 31st he wrote to Mrs. King :--

    My class is keeping me very busy, and besides, for
some weeks back I have been taking advantage of the
abundance of ice (it is now over, however, I hope) to
make some very curious experiments, by which I have

been able to verify a discovery made by James last year,
and published by the Royal Society of Edinburgh, that
the freezing temperature of water is lowered by pressure.
The effect, however, is very slight, so that about ten times
the atmospheric pressure upon the ice and water makes
the mixture only about a quarter of a degree colder.

    The letter went on to speak of his devising with
James a new kind of heating apparatus for houses.
He had also been giving musical parties at his
house at the College. In June he read to the
Royal Society the second portion of his great

memoir on Magnetism.

    He had more Notes in the Cambridge and

222  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                CHAP.

Dublin Mathematical Journal, two of them elec
trical, and two in the Philosophical Magazine, one of

which was a letter to Joule,1 announcing his adhesion

to Joule's views on the mutual convertibility of heat
and work. The other was on Magnetism in Non-

crystalline Substances, and was dated from the

Gareloch in August. To the British Association

at Edinburgh he communicated a paper dealing
with magnetism in crystalline substances. The
substance of this was embodied in the later part of
the " Theory of Magnetism." The diary returns to

the subject :--

Row, GARELOCH, Wed. Aug. 14, 1850, 11.15 P.M. -- I

have just finished a letter (of 18 pp. note paper) to
...Tyndall (whom I met at the British Assoc. meeting at
Edinb. last Thursday and Friday week).  In the

letter (by way of answer to Tyndall's of Aug. 7) I gave
a hasty account of Poisson's conjecture regarding crystals,

and of his general theory, stating my conviction that his

hypothesis is false ; I made some statements of my own

(positive) views regarding the distinctive action that a row

of balls of strong or weak ferromagc subsTM, or-of diamagc
subs" would experience if placed in a uniform field of

force ; mentioned my conjecture regarding the quasi-

crystalline structure induced in the dough itself, or the

gum water in drying in Mess"- Tyndall and Knoblauch's

experiments on the cakes containing powder of bismuth,

etc. ; and that this occurred to me in consequence of

having had my attention directed to young Clerk Max

well's (now of Peterhouse) optical experiments on isinglass
dried under constraint, which analogy would lead us to
suppose should have magnecrystallic properties ; that I

have asked C. M. to make some preparations ; that I do

not anticipate obtaining any results by my own experi

     1 See p. 278 below.

r        THE YOUNG PROFESSOR                                    223

menting, but would be glad if Messrs. T. & K. would

make some experiments according to suggestions which I

promise to make if wanted.

    The next entry has an interest of another kind.

    Thursday, Aug. 15,5 P.M. -- I have just written to

Rankine telling him of Clausius' paper in Poggen-
dorff. . . .

   Then he began, on the receipt of some data

about underground temperatures, to formulate the

equations of heat conduction, a work which he still

continued in October when he revisited Paris.

Thence he wrote to his sister, Mrs. King, then in
Torquay :--

                                HOTEL CORNEILLE, PLACE DE L'ODEON,
                                                 PARIS, Oct. 6, 1850.

   MY DEAR ELIZABETH -- I suppose by this time you

are settled, and I hope comfortably and pleasantly at

Torquay. Not knowing your address, I am going to let
this take its chance of finding you at Torquay, which I

daresay I am quite safe in doing.

   I arrived here on Thursday evening, having been dread

fully detained on the road by the difficulty of getting a

steamer from Brighton to France. I went direct to

Brighton from Glasgow, only stopping for an hour or two

in London, and I spent the Sunday with Ellis, intending

to leave on Monday for France. I found, however, there

was no steamer from any tolerably near port for France

till Tuesday morning. So I had to wait, and on Tuesday

I set out by rail at 8.30 for Newhaven, and when I arrived

there the steamer had not made her appearance, having

been unable to leave Dieppe the day before on account of

the storm. So I had a whole day to wait, and at last

was on   the point  aobfoduet m4anP.dMin. --g  back my fare,    when the
steamer  appeared                              contrary to the   expecta

tion of the nautical wise men about the harbour. She

could not sail again, or at least need not, on account of

224  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN               CHAP.

the tide at Dieppe, till 9 P.M., so I took a walk and saw

Seaford Cliff, which had recently been blown up by gun

powder and galvanism (see the newspapers). I had

rather a rough but not disagreeable passage to Dieppe,

during which I slept very well till we arrived at the

mouth of the harbour, where we had to lie for an hour

and a half for water, and I was a little sea-sick. I spent

twenty-five hours at Rouen, and refreshed my memory

with a sight of St. Ouen, the Cathedral, and St. Vincent,

and saw besides many other churches which we had not

seen before, one of which, dating from- the third century,

was very interesting.

     I find none  of my scientific friends in Paris, but
                  in from time to time, and I shall see
Regnault comes
him to-morrow.     I have got a good deal done regarding

my instruments, and have been enjoying myself very much.

I was at the English   church to-day,  where the sacrament
was administered to     a very large
                                       congregation. -- Your

affectionate brother,  WILLIAM THOMSON.

    On this visit he went with the Abbe Moigno to
the workshop of Duboscq to see some striking and
beautiful experiments, due to Foucault l on the pro

duction of spectra of the metals by the electric arc.

    A prism and lenses were arranged to throw upon a
screen an approximately pure spectrum of a vertical
electric arc between charcoal poles of a powerful battery,
the lower one of which was hollowed like a cup. When
pieces of copper and pieces of zinc were separately thrown

into the cup, the spectrum exhibited, in perfectly definite
positions, magnificent well - marked bands of different
colours characteristic of two metals. When a piece of
brass, compounded of copper and zinc, was put into the
cup, the spectrum showed all the bands, each precisely in
the place in which it had been seen when one metal or
the other had been used separately.

                      1 See Popular Lectures and Addresses, ii. p. 172.

v          THE YOUNG PROFESSOR                          225

    After this there is a long gap in the mathematical
diary, until April 29, 1851, when he is excited by

a communication from Joule about the dryness of
steam issuing from an orifice.

    On March 2, 1851, he writes to Mrs. King from
Glasgow :--

     I have been riding a good deal of late, and going some

long distances on days when I have had time. I yester

day had a ride of twenty-four miles with Alexander Crum,

his two sisters Margaret and Mary Gray, and Miss Couper

(Dr. John Couper"s daughter). A. Crum and I rode

out with Miss Couper, and we took up the others at

Thornliebank, and rode about six miles further till we got

to a very wild pastoral sort of district, high, and giving

splendid views of the valley of the Clyde and the hills

beyond     the air being very clear.  have engaged
        it,
                                       a

                                          if
                                                 I

                                                I

                                                                                                            a
horse for two months (only one,       please to break at

the end of the first),        very good one both for long

distances, speed, and general zeal in jumping or anything

that may be wanted.

   Such relaxations did not, however, interfere with

Thomson's activities. He was now in full cry in

the subject of Thermodynamics.

   Great work was done by Thomson in this year.

In March he read to the Edinburgh Royal Society
the classical memoir " On the Dynamical Theory

of Heat," as developed from the standpoint of Joule's

experiments, which      is    analysed in the chapter on
                            p.
Thermodynamics (see 280, below).
    In April he gave to the Royal Society of Edin

burgh a paper in which he suggested method of
                                      a
                                                     Q
investigating the mechanical equivalent of heat by

forcing air through  a  porous plug.

    VOL.
        1

226  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN             CHAP.

    In 1851 Thomson was proposed as a candidate
for the Fellowship of the Royal Society. The

certificate of candidature, which was signed by
Faraday, Hopkins, Whewell, Sedgwick, Willis,

Adams, Booth, Lyon Playfair, Wheatstone, Graves,

and Baden Powell, describes him as the "author of

several Mathematical papers in the Cambridge and

Dublin Mathematical Journal, of which Journal he
is the editor, and of two papers on the Mathe

matical Theory of Terrestrial Magnetism ordered

to be printed in the Philosophical Transactions.''

The certificate is in the handwriting of Hopkins.

The proposal of candidature was read to the Society

on January 9, 1851, and he was elected a Fellow on

June 6, of the same year, Huxley and Stokes being
elected Fellows on the same day. His formal

admission did not take place till June 10, 1852,
when he signed the Charter Book.

     He was absent from England in the summer of

1851 for nearly two months, visiting Regnault  in
Paris, and then staying with the Blackburns    in
Florence, where he spent much of his time      in

writing out for Regnault an account of the dynamical
theory of heat. He went on to Venice and Verona,

returning to England on August 1 1.

     Ipswich was the meeting-place of the British

Association in 1851, but Thomson does not appear

to have been present ; in the Presidential Address

of Sir George Airy there however, reference to
     is,
                          a

Thomson's magnetic investigations.

     From the end of August to the end of October,

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR  227

  some twenty pages of the note-book are devoted to
  Laplace's functions, to a polemic with Clausius, to
 the working out for Joule of the values, in absolute
 measure, of electro-chemical equivalents, and to the
  "mechanical values" of transient electric currents

 and of currents in a coil.
      In November he communicated two papers to

 the Philosophical Magazine. One of these was on
 the application of the principle of " Mechanical Effect
 to the Measurement of electromotive Forces, and of
 Galvanic Resistance in absolute Units." He is here

 applying thermodynamic principles to the actions
 in an electric circuit, and to the measurement in

 terms of mechanical units of the chemical actions
 of the battery, but, in particular, he is advocating
 and extending the use of " absolute units " as
 introduced by Weber, which he now restates in
 British measure, with the foot, grain, and second
 as the fundamental units of length, mass, and time.
 He gives a table of measurements of resistances
by different workers, showing considerable discre

pancies, and concludes by advocating determinations
of the absolute resistance of the same conductor by
the direct method of Weber, and by the indirect
method of calculating it by Joule's equivalent from

the heat developed in it by a current. His other
article, "On the Mechanical Theory of Electrolysis."
This is an extraordinary discussion, by the light of
Joule's discoveries, of the absolute value of the

electromotive forces concerned in electrolytic pro

cesses. The argument is based upon a hypothetical

228        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                 CHAP.

machine or model generating electromotive forces

by the revolution of a copper disc in a magnetic
field, on Faraday's plan. The electromotive force

generated would be, as he shows, proportional in

the angular speed, and to the square of the radius.

He even gives the expression for its efficiency.
At the end he considers the globe of the earth, --
a revolving magnet, -- and calculates its inductive

effect on a hypothetical conductor held above     if it,

which he estimates as about 204,000 times as great

as that of one Daniell's cell. He concluded that

the space surrounding the earth were capable of

conducting electricity, and were affected as fixed
                                            a

conductor by the motion of magnet in its neigh
                   It
                      It is,
                          is I

                                        a
bourhood, there would be electric currents induced  ;

and he added, "    think, far from improbable

that the phenomena of aurora borealis and australis

are so produced."  not known whether in later

life Lord Kelvin still held the same view.

     Later in the year he sent to the Edinburgh Royal

Society an "Appendix on a Mechanical Theory of

Thermo-electric Currents." Seebeck had discovered

in 1822 that a current can be created and maintained

by heating that point in an electric circuit where

there a junction between two different metals.
     is
        a
Peltier, few years later, had discovered that  if

current from a battery caused to traverse suchis    aa

junction, the surface of contact between the two

metals the seat of an evolution or of an absorptionis
of heat according to the direction of the current

through the junction. Applying to these known

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR  229

facts the thermodynamic principles of Carnot and of
Joule, Thomson came to the remarkable conclusion

that there must be a third, and hitherto unknown

phenomenon ; that an electric current must produce
in one and the same metal, different thermal effects

according as it passes from cold to hot or from hot
to cold. He pointed out several lines of experi
mental research, in which he suggests measurements
of electric quantities in absolute units, and incident

ally mentions that he has found the specific electric
resistance of different specimens of copper to differ

considerably from one another. Incidentally, also,
he suggests an experiment of driving an electric
motor ("a galvanic engine ") from a thermal battery,
stating the problem in terms which show that he
already had a correct and adequate grasp of the
theory of the efficiency of electric motors.

    In the spring of 1852 Thomson sent to the
Royal Society a note on a paper by Joule on the
Air-engine. To the Royal Society of Edinburgh
he read a paper on the "Mechanical Action of radiant
Heat or Light, on the Power of animated Creatures
over Matter, and on the Sources available to Man
for the production of Mechanical Effects." This
was in part a commentary on Helmholtz's Die
Erhaltung der Kraft, which he had but just read.
The published text is only an abstract. It shows
that Thomson was thinking of the philosophical
question of the origin of vital forces. He answers
in the negative the question whether animated
creatures can set matter in motion in virtue of

230  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

 an inherent power of producing a mechanical effect.
 Both the heat they generate and the work they
 perform demand an equivalent consumption of
 energy in the chemical processes of the animal
 body. The body does not act as a thermodynamic

 engine ; and very probably the chemical forces

 produce the external mechanical effects through
 electrical means. But, whatever the nature of these

 means, they are to some extent subject in every

individual to the direction of his will. Will power

can direct motions which are due to chemical forces.

Of the sources of mechanical effect available to man

the principle is the heat radiated from the sun.
    On April 19, Thomson communicated to the

Edinburgh Royal Society his famous discovery of
a Universal Tendency in Nature to the Dissipation
of Mechanical Energy, the complement to the
Theory of the Conservation of Energy enunciated
by Helmholtz. This brief but pregnant paper is

described below in the chapter on Thermodynamics

(see p. 287).

                                                                ST. PETER'S COLLEGE,
                                                      CAMBRIDGE, June 7, 1852.

    MY DEAR ELIZABETH -- I have been anxious to hear

from you for a long time, but I could scarcely expect
a letter without having first done my duty in writing to
you. I have been on the point of writing for a long time,

and on Saturday I had actually commenced a letter, but

was not able to go on on account of interruptions. I

wrote an account of our gaieties in Peterhouse, includ
ing ladies dining in Hall, an evening party, and an
extempore dance and a great deal of good music in the
rooms of one of our junior fellows, besides a regular

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR                                   231

concert of vocal music on another evening in the same

rooms, to Aunt, which shows that I have been idle enough

since last Tuesday when the College examination was

concluded. But one has not always most time to write

letters, or to read or do anything requiring a little quiet

time, when one is most idle, and so I have got more and
more behind in writing letters and other good things. I
am going to London to-day when I do hope I shall get

a little regular work done every day.

   I spent ten days at Manchester very pleasantly and
profitably with Joule making experiments, and I came
after that to Cambridge where I have been since, that is a

fortnight ago to-morrow.    I found Blow here, to my
surprise, when I arrived, he having been persuaded to

come up to play at the 5oth concert of the University
Musical Society, which was established in Peterhouse

when we were undergraduates, and is now a most flourish

ing and stable institution.

    I have had altogether an extremely pleasant time here,

seeing many old friends, and enjoying this pleasantest

time for Cambridge in general and our Peterhouse Grove

and gardens most particularly. I had once more a pull

in an eight-oar, for the first time since seven years ago,
and I have been bathing at " Sheep's Green " again,

generally early in the morning.

     Peterhouse has earned great credit by two students
from Scotland, one l of them, Steele, being a former pupil

of Papa's and mine, who were senior and second wrangler

last February. They were both here for some time after
I arrived, and one will in
College. -- I remain, your  a few weeks be a Fellow  of  the
                            affectionate brother,

                                 WILLIAM THOMSON.

    After London he returned to Glasgow.
    Allusion has been made to the relations between

the families of the Thomsons and of the Crums

of Thornliebank ; and that relation was now to

   1 The other -- the senior --was Peter Outline Tait, afterwards for so many

years associated with Thomson.

232  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

be strengthened by a much more intimate tie.

Thomson was now twenty - eight years old ; he

was becoming famous, and he held an assured
position as University professor. Margaret Crum,

whom he had known from boyhood, was an accom

plished and beautiful girl of twenty - two. Well

educated, well read, possessed of a lively imagination
and a poetic fancy, she was also of a deeply religious
nature and of great earnestness of purpose. Thom

son might well be attracted by so rare and sweet a

character as hers ; and the attraction, now that he

had so many opportunities of meeting her, ripened
into a deep attachment. The summer of 1852
witnessed the culmination of his hopes.

                                                                    2, COLLEGE,

                                             Tuesday night, July 13, 1852.

    MY DEAR ELIZABETH -- I have a piece of news to tell

you which I think will please you as much as it will
surprise you. Margaret Crum has consented to be mine,
and from to-day we are engaged to be married. I came
up from Largs in the afternoon, and rode out to Thornlie-
bank to tell Mr. and Mrs. Crum and ask their consent,
which was given with the greatest goodwill. I cannot
tell you any more at present, as I am writing this and two
or three other letters in the middle of the night, to get
them posted immediately, so that they may leave by the

early mails. I shall tell you more when I see you, which

I hope will be on Friday. If I can I shall let you know

my plans beforehand, but whether you hear from me or

not, I shall probably be with you on Friday evening. I

am going down to Largs to-morrow, and I think I shall
be there a good deal till Anna1 comes. Write to me
addressing to Mrs. Arthur's, White Hart Inn, Largs.

     1 Mrs. William Bottomley of Belfast, second daughter of Dr. James
Thomson.

1

                   uV^-CtXl^


v         THE YOUNG PROFESSOR                       233

   Margaret and I despatched a joint letter to Anna by

to-day's post, so that she will hear of it at the same time

as you. I am now going to write to James, although I

suppose   he will   hear of   it from  Anna before  my intima
tion can   reach              remain   always your  affectionate
                   him. -- I

brother,                               WILLIAM THOMSON.

   A week after their engagement Margaret Crum
wrote to Mrs. King: . . . "We have one interest

in common that can never fail, and as I told Mrs.

Gall, I feel that in William's love for his sisters and

her, lies my best security for the continuation to me

of those feelings on which the happiness of my life

must now depend."

    The marriage took place, in accordance with

Scottish custom, at the home of the bride's father

at Thornliebank, on September 15, 1852, the
officiating minister being the Rev. Dr. Brown of

Edinburgh, father of the author of Rab and His
Friends, Dr. John Brown. The young couple went

to Wales for their wedding tour.
    By his marriage he vacated the Fellowship which

he had held in St. Peter's College since 1846.

                                             BANGOR, Saturday [Sept. 19, 1852].

    MY DEAR ELIZABETH --You have probably heard

from Aunt, to whom I wrote on Thursday at Carlisle, of
our doings after we drove away on Tuesday. On Thurs

day afternoon we had a most agreeable railway journey
to Chester. Yesterday we walked quite round the walls,
which you may remember of old, and came on in the
afternoon to this place. We are in the Penrhyn Arms
Hotel, which is beautifully situated, out of the town, with
a garden running down to the sea, and a view of Angle-
sea, over the straits, from our windows. We set out this

234            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                  CHAP.

morning in a car to see the Britannia Tubes and the old

Suspension Bridge ; but rain coming on slightly, but rather

obstinately to appearance, we turned, and are now sitting
in our parlour writing letters. The day is somewhat

dark and cold, and some people might say dreary, but it

does not seem so at all to me. I scarcely think it does

so to Margaret either, although she has just been saying

that it   is,  and what  more, laying particular emphasis
                         is

                            I

                                                             a
                                                                is
on the most dismal parts. Perhaps she                               only joking,

but whether or not, she looks cheerful, and has quite got
rid of her cold. In fact, do not think either of us are

going to apply to Dr. Brown to undo what he did on

Tuesday.

We are not going to travel about great deal, as we

are both most inclined to get to some quiet seaside place

and settle there, taking little excursions up the hills and

on the water from it. We shall, however, see something

of Wales in general before we leave      it,                        were only in

                                           if
                                               it

our search for the little Elysium that we have been
imagining when we spoke to one another of " what was

to be done in Wales." .

    If we could get just such
                         .               little house as the one you
                                  .

                                      a

are in, and similarly situated (at Clinder), somewhere on
                             think
the coast hereabouts,    I  about          we should   ofbeOcctoobneter.n--ted
without much travelling                  till the end
                                                                    I

remain, your affectionate brother,

                                                WILLIAM THOMSON.

    The British Association of 1852 had been held
in Belfast at the beginning of September. Thomson
was this year chosen President of section A, and him

self read five papers there. One of these was on the
Sources of Heat generated by the Galvanic Battery.
Another on Certain Magnetic Curves, being the Field
of Force, accurately calculated, as perturbed by the
introduction of Spheres of Substances of either

higher or lower Magnetic Permeability than the

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR  235

surrounding Medium. Another on the Equilibrium
of Elongated Masses of Ferro-magnetic Substance in
uniform and varied Fields of Force. This narrated

experiments in confirmation of Faraday's doctrine

that magnetic bodies in such fields tended to move

into positions where their magnetization would be
greatest. Another was on the Mutual Attraction of
two Electrified Spherical Conductors. Then lastly,
a joint paper by Thomson and Joule on the Thermal

Effects of Air rushing through Small Apertures. This

narrated experiments begun jointly in May 1851 at
Manchester, and continued by Joule, to test a point
which had been assumed by Mayer without proof.

    In December Thomson discoursed to the Glas

gow Philosophical Society on the economy of the
heating or cooling of buildings by means of currents
of air. This suggested the mechanical method of
refrigeration by the expansion of cooled compressed
air, afterwards commercialised on a large scale in
the Bell-Coleman process. In 1853 two papers
were communicated to the Glasgow Philosophical
Society on the Mechanical Values of Distributions
of Electricity, Magnetism, and Galvanism, and on
Transient Electric Currents. The former of these
was a concise statement of the potential energy of
an electric or magnetic system. The latter, which
was given in fuller mathematical form in the Philo

sophical Magazine for June, was an investigation
into the rushes of current which occur when a con

denser is suddenly discharged through a conducting
circuit. Riess had observed that in attempting

236  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

to magnetize steel needles by such discharges, they
are sometimes magnetized in one direction, some

times in the reverse. Faraday had also found some
anomalies in the amounts of electrolytic gases

produced in water by such discharges, and from
these Helmholtz had conjectured that they might

be due to the discharge being oscillatory in char
acter. Moreover, the existence of double, triple,
and even quadruple flashes of lightning which
had occasionally been observed, suggested that in
certain cases the lightning flash might itself be
an oscillatory discharge. Starting from energy -
principles, Thomson determined to test mathe
matically what was the motion of electricity, at any
instant after making contact, in a circuit containing

capacity, resistance, and self-induction. He knew
that capacity such as that of a Leyden jar tended to
operate as if the dielectric of glass possessed a sort
of electric elasticity. He knew that resistance in
the circuit tended to fritter away the energy of the

current as mere heat, and played therefore the same

part as friction does in destroying the motion of
mechanical bodies or of moving fluids. He also
knew from Faraday's work that the energy of a
current flowing in a circuit depended on the form of
a circuit, being great in one that consists of coils ;
and that it was proportional to the square of the
current, the circuit acting, if coiled, as though it
gave inertia to the motion of electricity through its
convolutions. So, then, starting from energy-prin
ciples, he ingeniously built up the differential equa

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR                 237

tion for the motion of electricity in such a circuit,
and deduced the integral. The result was very

remarkable. He discovered that a critical relation

occurred if the capacity in the circuit was equal to

four times the coefficient of self-induction divided

by the square of the resistance. If the capacity

was less than this the discharge was oscillatory,

passing through a series of alternate maxima in
                                       If the
opposite directions before dying out.

capacity was greater than this, the discharge was

non-oscillatory, the charge of the condenser dying
out without reversing. He suggested that it might

be possible by discharging a Leyden jar, or other

condenser of small capacity, through a circuit having

large self-induction and small resistance, to produce

artificially such oscillatory discharges. If the oscil

lations followed one another too rapidly for the eye

to distinguish them, Wheatstone's method of observ

ing them in a rotating mirror might be employed,

and would show the sparks as several points or

short lines of light separated by dark intervals,

instead of a single point of light, or an unbroken

line of light, as it would be if the spark were

instantaneous, or were continuous and of appreci

able duration.

   This beautiful bit of mathematical analysis, and

the prediction, which passed almost unnoticed at the

time, laid the foundation of the theory of electric

oscillations subsequently studied by Oberbeck,

Schiller, Hertz, and Lodge. It forms to-day the

basis of wireless telegraphy. Fedderssen, in 1859,

238  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

 succeeded in photographing these oscillatory sparks,
 and sent photographs to Thomson, who with great
 delight gave an account of them to the Glasgow

 Philosophical Society.
     In May 1853, Thomson, accompanied by his

wife, made a trip to the Mediterranean, visiting
Gibraltar, Malta, and Sicily. The exertions of

travel, and of walks in Sicily, overtaxed Mrs. Thom
son's strength, and on their return to England her
health was still suffering. At the end of the year

she was obliged to go to Edinburgh for surgical

nursing, and for many weeks could not return to

Glasgow. All through the ensuing spring and

summer, though slowly advancing toward recovery,
she was still far from well, and her sufferings cast a
cloud upon the life of the home.

    In 1853 Thomson published one note in the
Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal, and
two papers in the Philosophical Magazine, one of

these being electrical ; the other on the restoration

of mechanical energy from an unequally heated

space.

    The British Association Meeting of 1853 was
held at Hull on September 3rd. Thomson was not
present, and he made no communication of scientific
work to its proceedings. His mathematical note
book shows no further entries till 1855.

THE YOUNG PROFESSOR  239

                  APPENDIX TO CHAPTER V

       INTRODUCTORY LECTURE TO THE COURSE ON
                         NATURAL PHILOSOPHY

     In entering on a new branch of study it is natural to
look for a distinct statement of its subject. But nothing
in science is more difficult than definitions. Attempts to
give sharp and complete definitions, especially to define
branches of science, have generally proved failures. Where
definition and logical subdivision become practically
valuable is to give method, and to promote order and
regularity in the prosecution of a study. I do not pro
pose in this introductory lecture to lay down with
logical precision any definite and sharp line round our
province : I shall rather attempt to explain in general
terms the relation which Natural Philosophy bears to
other branches of human inquiry, observation, science, and
philosophy, and to divide our treatment of it in the
manner which we find most convenient for our work in
the Natural Philosophy Class and Laboratory of the

University.
     Mind and Matter, the two great provinces of Nature,

are very remarkably and wonderfully distinct subjects of
investigation. Our knowledge of the first is called mental
science ; and although nature, in the strict sense of the
word, includes all things created, the knowledge of the
material part alone is usually understood by the expression
natural science.

     In the progressive study of natural phenomena, that
    the phenomena of the external world, the first work
to observe and classify facts the process of inductive
generalisation follows, in which the laws of nature are
the objects of research. These two stages of science are
designated by the expressions of natural history and

natural philosophy.

     In mental science, that other principal branch of

human knowledge, there are corresponding gradations
is,

                                                                                 ;

                                                                                                       is

240     LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                       CHAP.

which we may consider for a moment, as they serve to

illustrate the division with which we are particularly occu

pied. Thus, what by the analogy of terms might be called

mental history, that is to say, a combination of personal

experience and a knowledge of men and of manners, with

the study of politics and history, leads us to reason upon
the abstract properties of mind, and to investigate that

system of general laws on which mental philosophy is

founded. So in the study of external nature, the first

stage is the description and classification of facts observed
with reference to the various kinds of matter of which

the properties are to be investigated ; and this is the
legitimate work of Natural History. The establishment

of general laws in any province of the material world, by

induction from the facts collected in natural history, may

with like propriety be called Natural Philosophy.

In the ordinary use of the terms this distinction is not

strictly observed ; for, although, according to every part
        ;

                                  it,
                                           is
of the material world should have its place in the first

stage of science, the expression natural history                  com

monly restricted to the description and classification of

the various natural products in the mineral, vegetable, and
animal kingdoms of the earth while the vicissitudes of

temperature and climate and the flowing of the tides, as

well as the general appearance and motions of the heavenly

bodies, are considered as forming subjects for distinct

branches of natural science, and are known by the names

of Meteorology and Descriptive Astronomy. The reason

of this apparently arbitrary limitation  sufficiently well
                                         is
founded. In the study of that class of objects which
                                                               ;
belong to the restricted province of Natural History,

according to the specific meaning of the term, description

and classification are of remarkable importance while in

the other branches of natural sciences we enter more

immediately upon those speculations which belong properly

to Natural Philosophy, or at least upon that series of

systematic observations and experiments which have for

their object the establishment of laws and the formation

of theories so that in these the primitive study which
     ;

v          THE YOUNG PROFESSOR                    241

might strictly be called Natural History forms a much
less prominent part of the whole science than it does in

that province to which the name has been peculiarly

assigned.

     The term Natural Philosophy once detached from the
study of the characteristic properties of minerals, plants,

and animals, has not been subsequently bestowed upon
those of the more advanced stages of this branch of

science in which inductive generalisations lead to general

laws and theoretical speculations ; but distinct names such
as Geology,1 Chemistry, and Vegetable and Animal
Physiology, have been applied to its different divisions ;

although in the strict logical sense these might be con

sidered as belonging to Natural Philosophy.
     Considering the sciences I have just mentioned as

formally excluded from Natural Philosophy, I shall now

proceed to give some explanation connected with the

great province that remains.
     The fundamental subject of Natural Philosophy is

Dynamics, or the science of force ; mechanics, kinetics,
statics. Every phenomenon in nature is a manifesta
tion of force. There is no phenomenon in nature which
takes place independently of force, or which cannot

be influenced in some way by its action ; 2 hence dyna

mics has application in all the natural sciences ; and

before any considerable progress can be made in a

philosophical study of nature a thorough knowledge of
                                               It is on
dynamical principles is absolutely necessary.

this account that dynamics is placed by universal consent

at the head of physical sciences. It deserves this position,

no less for its completeness as a science, than for its

    1 [Note added 1862 :--
    I. Geology; 2. Theory of heat and mechanical effect: (I) shows us the
successive introduction of the different races of animals on the earth ; (2)
shows that the inanimate world must have had a beginning, and that all
motion except that of heat must have an end, unless it please God to restore
by an act of new creative power the dissipation of mechanical effect which

always goes on. Chemistry occupies an intermediate position ; electricity
also, according to Sir H. Davy, Berzelius, Faraday, and Joule, etc. etc.].

    3 Here explain light, heat, chemical changes, taste and smell ; every
modification of matter ; every object of sense.

   VOL. I                                      R

242  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

general importance. From a few simple, almost axio
matic principles, founded on our common experience of
the effects of force, the general laws which regulate all

the phenomena, presented in any conceivable dynamical

action, are established ; and it is thus put within our
power by a strict process of deductive reasoning to go

back from these general laws to the actual results in
particular cases of the operation of force ; the instrument,

or form, by which this deductive process is conducted

being mathematical analysis. Hence it is that dynamics
is said to be a branch of mixed or applied mathematics.

     Statics and Kinetics are the two great divisions of
mechanical philosophy ; statics treats of the balancing of
forces, while kinetics deals with the effects of unbalanced

forces in producing motion or altering the motion of

bodies. Some investigations in kinetics have reference to

the forces which must be applied to communicate a given

motion to a body ; others again to the resistance necessary
to reduce a moving body to a state of rest ; or, lastly, the
principles of kinetics may be employed to determine the
forces called into action in the connecting pieces or links
joining parts of any system of bodies in motion, such as the
effect of centrifugal force in stretching the cord of a sling
or the strain on the different parts of a steam-engine at
work. But the circumstances of mere motion, considered
without reference to the matter of the bodies moved and

the forces producing the motion, or by it called into action,
do not belong to the province of kinetics, but constitute the
subject of a distinct science, to which, although it might
be regarded as a branch of pure geometry, a distinguished

French author has given the name cinematics, a term

derived from the Greek word Kivr/fia, signifying a motion.
     There are also subdivisions of statics and kinetics

depending on the nature of the substance considered as
subject to the action of force. Thus hydrostatics and

hydrokinetics are the subordinate branches in which fluid

bodies are treated of; and still more specifically, pneu
matics is that part of hydrostatics in which the equilibrium
of aeriform fluids is considered. Again, acoustics is that

v             THE YOUNG PROFESSOR  243

portion of general kinetics in which are investigated the

laws of the small vibratory movements that give origin to

the various phenomena of sound. The special characters

of these branches of Natural Philosophy are best illustrated

by considering examples of the subjects treated. Thus

all the knowledge we possess regarding the mechanical

condition of the atmosphere with which we are surrounded

and of its relation to solid bodies or to other fluids, belongs

to the science of pneumatics. And the investigations

concerning the vibrations of stretched strings or membranes,
of air in tubes, as in the organ or flute, or of solid laminae,

such as the reeds used in certain musical instruments, are

instances of the researches which occur in the science of

acoustics.

     The two last-mentioned branches of dynamics, pneu

matics and acoustics -- on account of the experiments and

observations necessary, in the first place, to enable us to

rank them in their proper position in dynamical science,

and after that to furnish the data necessary for deducing

the solution  of any practical    question connected with them
              propriety be still  considered as distinct branches
-- may with

of Natural Philosophy. This remark is applicable in even

a greater degree to Astronomy, which, although the oldest

of the physical sciences, did not attain to its present rank

as a branch of Natural Philosophy (all attempts to reduce
to a common principle the various complicated motions

which had been observed in the heavenly bodies having

proved entirely futile) until the genius of Newton pene
trated the mystery of their connection with dynamical

principles, and discovered the simple law of Universal

Gravitation by which they are all regulated. It may be

thought that this great step in the theory of astronomy,

at once its beginning and its end, must have superseded

the further labours of the practical astronomer. Instead
of having such an effect, however, it only showed the true

object of those labours, and proved that they can never

come to a termination, the vastness of their field being
without limit. It is now no longer the dimensions of

crystal spheres, or the number and arrangement of cycles

244  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

and epicycles ; it is not the finite mechanism of an orrery

that the astronomer has to investigate, but it is the ele

ments by which the positions of the planets and countless
stars may be determined at any assigned instant of time
past or to come. The immensity of the task might be
appalling were it not that progress is sure, and the brilliant

discoveries by which the diligent observer and the bold

theoretical adventurer is occasionally rewarded give that
deep interest to the work of the astronomer which en

courages and excites him through all his- toil. [Here
followed in the original lecture three pages of MS. relating
to the discovery of Neptune, predicted by Adams and
Le Verrier. They were omitted after 1862 on the advice
of Tait that Neptune had been " ridden to death." In

later years there used to be about here a reference to the
Mtcanique Cdeste of Laplace, and a remark on the
romance of that title.]

     Another great division of our subject is Optics, or
that part of Natural Philosophy in which the properties
of light and the laws of vision are investigated. Whether
we consider the infinitely varied optical phenomena of
nature or the brilliant experiments which may be made
in this branch of science, the study of optics presents
attractions of the highest order ; and when in addition
we reflect that it is through the assistance of instruments
constructed according to our knowledge of optical principles
that all the observations are made on which the science of

astronomy depends, and that such instruments are used

more or less in nearly every accurate research in any
branch of natural science, then truly the practical import

ance of the study seems if possible to exceed its attractive

interest.
     (Most wonderful of instruments, the eye. Demonstra

tion of design sometimes by fanciful or too zealous

advocates discredited.)
     The thoughtful student must, besides, be deeply in

terested in tracing the proofs of design in the adaptation
of our organs of vision in accordance with the physical
laws of light to receive the impressions by which we see

v               THE YOUNG PROFESSOR        245

external objects. There is indeed no department of the

study of nature in which we meet with more remarkable

instances of beautiful and wonderful phenomena, or of

perfect mechanism designed for rendering them sensible to

animated creatures.

     The other  subjects which  belong to  thdeiviNsaiotnusra, l--PhHieloast,
ophy course      are included    in three

Electricity, and Magnetism. Our knowledge of these

branches of the science is not so far advanced as to

enable us to reduce all the various phenomena to a few

simple laws from which, as in mechanics, by means of

mathematical reasoning every particular result may be ob

tained ; but observation and experiment are the principal

means by which our knowledge in this department can be

enlarged. Hence what is called the experimental or

physical course includes these three subjects ; while the
more perfect sciences of mechanics and optics, being

really mathematical subjects, form a distinct division of

the studies prescribed by the University for the complete

course of Natural Philosophy. I should here explain

that although to advance to a profound knowledge of

dynamics or optics, or to make discoveries in these

sciences, an extensive and accurate knowledge of mathe

matical analysis is almost absolutely necessary, yet a very

useful and interesting study may be made of all the
branches of mechanics (astronomy and the theory of heat

and light, as I have already remarked, being included),

and of optics, by persons moderately acquainted with the
more elementary parts of mathematics. It will therefore

be my object to limit as much as possible the merely

mathematical part of the treatment of these subjects in

the general lectures, and to separate off the higher mathe

matical treatment, so that students qualified by the amount

of mathematical preparation prescribed by the University

regulations before entering publicly on the Natural Philos

ophy course, may by careful attention and diligent

private study be able to follow out the full business of

the class.

   When we look back upon knowledge of nature from

246  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN               CHAP.

earliest times, and on the progress which has been made

by the human mind in the discovery of truth, we feel that

the power of investigating the laws established by the

Creator for maintaining the harmony and permanence of

His works is the noblest privilege which He has granted

to our intellectual state. If we neglect cultivating to the

utmost of our opportunities the faculties which for this

end He has bestowed upon us, we reject His gifts, and

are unworthy of His beneficence.  But while power is

given to us to learn, the exercise of this power has been
made to be a source of happiness. " Wisdom's ways are
ways of pleasantness " (surely Natural Philosophy was

included), is the saying of one who spoke from experience,
who, as Bacon says, was enabled by the gift of God, " not

only to write those excellent parables or aphorisms con
cerning divine and moral philosophy," but also " to com

pile a natural history of all verdure from the cedar tree

that is in Lebanon to the hyssop that springeth out of

the wall, as well as of all things that breathe or move."

Whether in the active investigations by which we

arrive at truth, or in the gratification felt in the posses

sion of knowledge, the intellectual value of science is

conspicuous, and the adaptation of the human mind for

such enjoyment is a manifestation not less remarkable of

the divine goodness than the various arrangements by

which the physical powers of the animal world are

produced and maintained. The contentment felt in the

knowledge of truth is well illustrated by Lucretius when
he says, " it is a view of delight to stand or walk in safety

on the shore, and to see a ship tossed with tempest on

the sea ; or to be safe in a fortified tower and to see two

armies joining in battle on a plain ; but it is a pleasure

incomparable for the mind of man to be settled, landed,

fortified in the certainty of truth ; and from thence to

descry and behold the errors, perturbations, labours, and

wanderings up and down of other men."

     Bacon places the delights of knowledge and learning
above all other in nature. " Shall," he asks, " the pleasures

of the affections so exceed the senses as much as the

v             THE YOUNG PROFESSOR             247

obtaining of desire or victory exceedeth a song or a

dinner ; and must not, of consequence, the pleasures of the
intellect or understanding exceed the pleasures of the

affections ? We see in all other pleasures there is satiety,

and after they be used their verdure departeth ; which

sheweth well they be but deceits of pleasure, and not

pleasures ; and that it was the novelty which pleased, not
the quality. But of knowledge there is no satiety, but

satisfaction and appetite are perpetually interchangeable ;

and therefore it appeareth to be good in itself simply

without fallacy or accident."

   The deep interest of scientific research cannot be

entirely appreciated by those to whom such inquiries are

strange ; but it is felt in some degree by all who apply

themselves in earnest to the study of Natural Philosophy.
All of you, who are now commencing
                                              will hope
                                              it,
bestow enough time and thought upon the work to
                                                        I
enable you to surmount the initial difficulties, such as
                                                                                     ;
necessarily occur when ideas of an entirely novel kind

are brought before the mind. By sufficient perseverance,

and by continual reference to the examples which you

see in the world around you of the various physical

actions and effects you will have to study, the habit of

reasoning on the phenomena of nature will be acquired,

and you will then begin to feel the enthusiasm which the

subject inspires. Each one of you when he attempts the

solution of a problem of difficulty, or struggles to com

prehend a new principle, will have share of that spirit of
                      is
                                           a
enterprise which led Newton on to his investigations

and when the problem           solved, when the doubts have

vanished,  a  feeling of satisfaction will be the reward,

similar to that which Newton himself must have felt

after some of his great discoveries.

    A strong recommendation of the study of Natural

Philosophy arises from the importance of its results in

improving the physical condition of mankind.

    At no period of the world's history have the benefits

of this kind conferred by science been more remarkable

than during the present age still we must not consider
                               ;

248  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

that the practical benefits to be derived from Natural

Philosophy are only now recognised. A popular writer

toward the end of the last century compares in the
following terms the primitive state of mankind with that
which existed at the time he wrote, " Man in a rude and

savage state, with a precarious subsistence, exposed to the
inclemencies of the seasons and the fury of wild beasts, is
an object of pity when compared to man enlightened and
assisted by philosophy. Ignorant of architecture, of agri
culture, of commerce, and of all the numerous arts which

depend on the mechanic powers, he exists in the desert,

comfortless and unsocial, little superior in enjoyment to

the lion or the tyger, but much their inferior in strength

and safety." " If it be true that man ever existed in this

state, it could not have lasted long ; the exertion of his
mental strength must have given rise to the arts. Aided

by these the wilderness became a garden, embellished with

temples, palaces, and populous cities ; and he beholds

himself removed to an immense distance from the animals

to which in his original ignorance he seemed nearly allied."
Since the time when this estimate was made of the ad

vantages society has derived from science, some of the
highest principles of Natural Philosophy and Chemistry

have been applied to produce effects which at that time
would have been deemed incredible. Who would have

believed that we should at present consider twenty-five or
thirty miles an hour a slow average rate of travelling ? or
that our messages should now be communicated for

thousands of miles by sea or land, literally with the
speed of lightning ? These are only single instances of

the vast resources which we derive from direct applica
tions of modern science ; but I need not enumerate more,

as every one is convinced of the immense practical im
portance of the principles of Natural Philosophy at present
known. We must not, however, by considerations of this
kind be led to regard applications to the ordinary purposes
of life as the proper object and end of science. Nothing
could more effectually stop the advancement of knowledge
than the prevalence of such views ; even the desired

v  THE YOUNG PROFESSOR  249

practically useful discoveries would not be made if researches
obnoxious to the fatal question cut bono were to be uniformly
avoided. To take one example of a very great discovery ;
the foundation of a new branch of Natural Philosophy ;
which will form one of our subjects in the elementary course
of this session. Oersted would never have made his great
discovery of the action of galvanic currents on magnets

had he stopped in his researches to consider in what manner
they could possibly be turned to practical account ; and so
we should not now be able to boast of the wonders done by

the electric telegraphs. Indeed, no great law in Natural

Philosophy has ever been discovered for its practical

applications, but the instances are innumerable of investiga
tions apparently quite useless in this narrow sense of the
word which have led to the most valuable results. Besides,

we must never forget that the true end of philosophy is the
investigations of laws of nature, and towards this object
we must go on, turning neither to the right nor to the left,
working steadily and honestly, and at the same time
thoughtfully. The true spirit in which science ought to
be cultivated is well distinguished from the base motives
which sometimes actuate its votaries in the following

passage which I have great pleasure in quoting to you

from Bacon's Advancement of Learning : " This is that
which will indeed dignify and exalt knowledge if contem

plation and action be more nearly and straitly conjoined
and united together than they have been ; for men have
entered into a desire of learning and knowledge, some
times upon a natural curiosity and inquisitive appetite ;
sometimes to entertain their minds with variety and

delight ; sometimes for ornament and reputation ; and
sometimes to enable them to victory of wit and contradic
tion ; and most times for lucre and profession ; and seldom
sincerely to give a true account of their gift of reason to

the benefit of man ; as if there were sought in knowledge

a couch whereupon to repose a searching and restless
spirit ; or a tarasse for a wandering and variable mind
to walk up and down with a fair prospect ; or a tower of
state for a proud mind to raise itself upon ; or a fort or

250  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

commanding ground for strife and contention ; or a shop
for profit or sale ; and not a rich storehouse for the glory
of the Creator and the relief of man's estate."

    " A little learning " has been found fault with as " a

dangerous thing," but profound knowledge, or the earnest
attempt to attain profound knowledge, is liable to no

such objection. It has been well said by Sir John
Herschel, in his eloquent Discourse on the Study of Natural

Philosophy, that " the character of the true philosopher is
to hope all things not impossible, and to believe all things
not unreasonable. He who has seen obscurities which

appeared impenetrable in physical and mathematical

science suddenly dispelled, and the most barren and

unpromising fields of inquiry converted, as if by inspira

tion, into rich and inexhaustible springs of knowledge
and power, on a simple change of our point of view, or

by merely bringing to bear on them some principle which
it had never occurred before to try, will surely be the very
last to acquiesce in any dispiriting prospects of either the
present or future destinies of mankind ; while on the other

hand the boundless views of intellectual and moral as well

as material relations which open on him on all hands in
the course of these pursuits, the knowledge of the trivial

place he occupies in the scale of creation, and the sense
continually pressed upon him of his own weakness and

incapacity to suspend or modify the slightest movement
of the vast machinery he sees in action around him, must
effectually convince him that humility of pretension, no
less than confidence of hope, is what best becomes his

character."
     But while we exult in the progress we have made in

the cultivation of the natural sciences, we must not omit

to consider the impressions which the true study of nature

ought to make on every mind, and we must remember
that as the depth of our insight into the wonderful works
of God increases, the stronger are our feelings of awe and
veneration in contemplating them and in endeavouring to

approach their Author. At a time when astronomy could

hardly have been said to exist as a science, the Psalmist

v              THE YOUNG PROFESSOR                     251

exclaimed, " When I consider thy heavens, the work of

thy fingers, the moon and the stars which thou hast

ordained ; What is man that thou art mindful of him,
                                                    "
and  the  son  of man  that  thou  visitest  him
                                                  ?

     How much must this spirit of humble gratitude be

enhanced when we have been allowed to trace even

remotely the laws according to which the heavens have

been created.

     When we comprehend the vastness of the dimensions
of that part of creation of which we know a little, and yet
consider what an infinitesimal portion this is of the whole

universe, how insignificant a being we must feel that man
is, and how grateful ought we to be that God should still
be mindful of him and visit him, and for the gifts and

the constant care bestowed on him by the Creator of all.

By such feelings the earnest student of philosophy must
always be impressed ; so will he by his studies and
successive acquirements be led " through nature up to

nature's God."

     [Added, 1848.] In conclusion, gentlemen, let me express
the hope that you will do everything in your power to

second whatever exertions I may be able to make for

your improvement, devoting yourselves with energy and
cordiality to the business of the class ; and allow me to

anticipate for you as the result a pleasant and profitable

session.

CHAPTER VI

THERMODYNAMICS

Crescunt disciplinae lente tardeque ; per varies errores sero per-

venitur ad veritatem. Omnia praeparata esse debent, diuturno et

assiduo labore, ad introitum veritatis.  lam ilia certo temporis

momento, divina quadam necessitate coacta, emerget.

                                         C. G. J. JACOBI.

IT has been told how Thomson, when studying in
Paris in 1845, sought for the treatise of Carnot on
the motive power of heat, of which he had learned
through the memoir of Clapeyron. In the labora
tory of Regnault he had taken part in experimental
researches involving severely accurate measurements
of temperatures, of coefficients of expansion, and of
the specific and latent heats of materials.

    In the year that he had spent as mathematical

lecturer at Peterhouse, and in the next twelve

months, crowded with new duties and preoccupa
tions of his Glasgow chair, he had found scant
time to put into shape the mathematical and
physical conceptions which formed themselves with
embarrassing rapidity of succession in his fertile
brain. Magnetism, hydrodynamics, and electricity
were all furnishing him with problems for solution.
Amid such pressing demands upon his activities

                                                                  352

CHAP. vi       THERMODYNAMICS  253

the study of the problems of the motive power of

heat might well have been left aside. And yet,

owing to circumstances presently to be narrated,

his thoughts were destined to be directed to this

subject with an absorbing interest that dominated

his work for at least a decade, and in which some of

his highest achievements were reached. If his

work in Thermodynamics stood alone it would suffice

to place his name as a natural philosopher beside
that of Newton in its grasp of principles and

generality of outlook ; yet in this subject, in which

his peculiar genius found scope in the knitting

together and unification of the fundamental laws,

there will ever be associated with his name that

of another worker, James Prescott Joule. It would
be difficult to conceive of a man better fitted than

Thomson was by training and habit of mind to

grasp the ultimate importance of Joule's patient and
individual investigations, and to guide, counsel, and

co-operate with him, as well as to expound, develop,

formulate, and systematize the new philosophy for

which they afforded a basis.

Here again it will be necessary to make some

digression in order to elucidate the part which

Thomson took in this great forward step in physical

science.

Down to the middle of the eighteenth century

the term heat was used indiscriminately for the

invisible agent which when communicated to a body

warms     it,  and for the degree of sensible warmth

attained, which we now call temperature. Toward

254  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

the end of the eighteenth century the chemists
Black and Irvine, in Scotland, and Lavoisier, in

France, by their investigations into latent and

specific heat, compelled a clear distinction between
the cause and the effect. When heat is given to

a body the usual effect is that its temperature is

raised. This is not always so ; for in the cases

where a body is changing its state, as when a solid

is melting, or when a liquid is evaporating, the
communication of heat may not produce a rise of
temperature. Thus when heat is given to a melting

lump of ice, the resulting liquid is not hotter than
the ice was. The heat has disappeared as heat,

and in the language of Black, it has become latent

in the liquid. So also when boiling water is con

verted into steam, the steam is no hotter than the

liquid was, a very large quantity of heat having
been rendered latent in the process. In fact, during
change of state the heat has been employed, not

in warming the substance, but in changing its state
of molecular aggregation. Lavoisier gave the name

caloric to that which we should now call the heat

per se. Though he did not bind himself1 to the

   "1 Cettc substance, quelle qu'elle soit, etant la cause de la chaleur . . .

on ne peut pas, dans un langage rigoureux la designer par le nom de
 ' chaleur ' ; parce que la meme denomination ne peut pas exprimer la cause
et 1'effet. . . . Nous avons en consequence designe la cause de la chaleur, le
fluide eminemment elastique qui la produit, par le nom de calorique. Inde-
pendamment de ce que cette expression remplit notre objet dans le systeme
que nous avons adopte, elle a encore un autre avantage ; c'est de pouvoir
s'adapter a toutes sortes d'opinions, puisque, rigoureusement parlant, nous ne
sommes pas meme obliges de supposer que le calorique soit une matiere
reelle ; il suffit, comme on le sentira mieux par la lecture de ce qui va suivre,
que ce soit une cause repulsive quelconque qui &arte les molecules de la
 matiere et on peut ainsi en envisager les effets d'une maniere abstraite et
mathematique."-- LAVOISIER, Traiti ilimentaire de chimie, 1789, p. 4.

vi  THERMODYNAMICS  255

notion that " caloric " was a kind of imponderable
matter, which could pass from one substance to
another, or become latent amongst molecules of a
liquid or of a vapour, that notion was generally
received and came to be associated with the use of

the term. To this doctrine of the material nature
of heat was superadded the further notion that

caloric itself was indestructible, and could neither

be created nor destroyed, --the evolution of heat in

combustion being regarded as merely the liberation
of caloric previously latent, and the cooling of a
hot body by conduction or radiation being considered
merely as a dilution or dissipation of the caloric
through a larger quantity of matter.

    On the other hand Bacon, and after him Boyle,
Hooke, and apparently Newton, had held that heat,
in a body, consisted in a species of motion of the

minute particles, --a view which was revived with

experimental demonstrations just at the beginning
of the nineteenth century by Davy, and by Count
Rumford, who produced heat by friction, and con
cluded that the quantity was limited only by the
amount of labour expended mechanically in main
taining the motion against the resistance of friction.
Though British philosophers generally held this
view, the continental doctrine of caloric was usually
taught, or at least its language was adopted, with

the implication that caloric was a subtle and impon
derable fluid that could neither be created nor

destroyed, but which could pass readily from a hot
body to a cold one ; could be conducted from the

256  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                          CHAP.

hot parts of an unequally heated body to a cold one ;
could be absorbed or rendered latent in changes of

state, as from solid to liquid, or liquid to vapour ;

and could even be radiated across space, as from the

sun to the earth.

    Carnot's wonderful little treatise of 1824 -- "an
epoch-making gift to science," as Lord Kelvin styled
it--had discussed the question how it was that work
could be done in an engine by the motive power of
heat He had grasped the fundamental point that

the steam that drives the engine always comes out
of the cylinder colder than it was when it entered ;

that heat tends to pass from a hotter to a colder

body. Assuming the view of the indestructibility
of heat, he was led to explain the action of the steam-

engine (and indeed of all heat-engines) by the
analogy of water-engines. In these none of the

water disappears or is destroyed ; the work is done

by the water descending from a higher level to a
lower level. The amount of work that a water-

wheel can do, by the passage of any given quantity
of water, depends upon the " head," that upon the
difference of level from the supply-flume above to

the tail-race below. So, according to Carnot, the

work done by a heat-engine, by the passage through
    of given quantity of heat, depends upon the

difference of temperature between the source (boiler)
and the refrigerator (condenser or exhaust). He
supposed that exactly as much heat left the engine
and entered the refrigerator as the engine itself
received from the source. As final result, he says,
it

          a
                                                         a

                                                                             is,

vi           THERMODYNAMICS     257

the cold water of the condenser takes possession of

the caloric developed by combustion in the boiler.

It is heated by the intervention of the steam as if it
-- the water of the condenser -- had been placed
directly over the furnace. The steam is here only a
means of transporting the caloric. The production

of motive power in steam-engines is due, not to any
actual consumption of caloric, but to its transporta

tion from a warm body to a cold body.

    It is true that Carnot before he died had out

grown these notions, though his maturer reflections

were not published till long after his death. But

there can be no doubt of the assumption from which

he started.

    He had, however, meditated upon the puzzling

circumstance, that whereas in the engine the trans

mission of heat from a hot body to a cold one

effects motive power, the communication of heat

from a hot body to a cold one by mere conduction

or radiation produces no work. He saw that in

the cases where motion is produced the heat operated

only by virtue of the changes of volume or of form

which it causes.  He saw that alternations of

heating and cooling are requisite, and that corre

sponding alternations of change of volume are

equally necessary. So he conceived -- and the

conception remains as a permanent contribution of

the utmost value to science --the notion of a cycle

of operations. In this cycle heat should be given

to a prescribed quantity of air or steam (or other

working fluid) ; then the hot fluid should expand,
    VOL. i
                             s

258 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

doing work, but becoming cooler as it expanded,
and giving out its heat to the refrigerator ; then it
should be compressed back to its original volume,
pressure, and temperature to recommence the
cycle. The cycle consists of four operations, which,

as originally described, are these :-- Heat having

been previously imported from the source at high
temperature, and the piston having risen to a certain
point, and the source of heat having been cut off,
the first operation (1) consists in permitting the
fluid still further to expand while, as no heat can

enter or leave, the temperature falls, the expansion
being continued till the lower temperature of the
refrigerator is reached ; (2) the piston is pushed
back while the fluid is compressed isothermally,
giving up heat to the refrigerator ; (3) the piston
is pushed farther back under adiabatic conditions,
the temperature rising till it reaches that of the
source ; when (4) heat is allowed to enter from the
source, the fluid expanding isothermally until it
reaches the original volume and pressure ; and then

the cycle recurs. In this round of operations --famous
as Carnofs cycle -- heat is transferred from the

source to the refrigerator, and a certain nett amount
of work is performed. Carnot, with the clearest
reasoning, saw that cycle to be reversible ; that
that the operations were all reversed and performed
in reverse order by the application of external work,

the heat would be pumped back from the refrigerator

to the source. He also perceived clearly that the
"motive power" in the cycle was independent of
if

                                                                                                is,

vi  THERMODYNAMICS                                                 259

the particular kind of fluid employed ; and that for

a given quantity of the fluid the quantity of motive

power was determined solely by the difference

between the two temperatures between which the

transfer of caloric (as he expressed                               was effected.
it

                  aa

                                                              it)
He also observed that the fall of caloric through

a given difference of temperatures produces more

motive power at a lower average temperature than

    does at higher. He also acutely concluded that

the superiority of high-pressure engines over low-

pressure engines lay essentially in their power of
utilizing greater " fall " of caloric.

    This most remarkable conception was further

developed by Clapeyron, who gave precision to its

views by constructing an indicator diagram of the

four operations of the cycle, and emphasising the

point as to the efficiency of the heat concerned in

the cycle being dependent solely on the tempera

tures. Taking Carnot at his word he, however,

insisted, in his description of the cycle, that in the

second operation the same quantity of heat was

given up to the refrigerator as was received from

the source in the fourth operation. He thus made

the indestructibility of heat an essential part of the

cycle theory, which Carnot had not explicitly done.

Clapeyron's methodical exposition, published in

1834, was translated into English, and appeared in
the third series of Taylor's Scientific Memoirs in

1839. /»M

    Quite independently of Carnot or Clapeyron,
                                      a
                                                                  a
still more potent investigator arose few years later

260  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

in the person of James P. Joule, the young Man
chester brewer, whose work was destined profoundly
to influence physical science. In 1838, at the age of

nineteen, Joule began his scientific labours with the
simple aim of improving the electro-magnetic motor
of Sturgeon. He built for himself such an engine,
of which he recorded : " It weighs 7^ Ibs., and the
greatest power I have been able to develop with a
battery of forty-eight Wollaston four-inch plates
was to raise 15 Ibs. a foot high in a minute." He
was thinking as an engineer, and measuring the
power in true engineering fashion. After a year or
more spent on investigating the production of heat

by electric currents, he turned to the magneto-

electric machine, which, he observed, enabled him
" to convert mechanical power into heat by means
of the currents which are induced in it." But being
at first uncertain whether the heat was generated or
merely transferred by this apparatus, he set himself
to clear up the difficulty. After a close investiga
tion of singular experimental difficulty, the result

was, in his own words -- " We have, therefore, in

 magneto-electricity an agent capable, by simple
 mechanical means, of destroying or generating heat."

 And he proceeded with astonishing insight to deduce

 the numerical equivalence, which he found (at first)
 to be 838 foot-pounds of work as the mechanical
 equivalent of the quantity of heat capable of increas
 ing by one Fahrenheit degree the temperature of one

 pound of water. [The correct result of after-years
 is 778 foot-pounds.] This research, communicated

vi  THERMODYNAMICS                     261

by Joule to the British Association meeting at Cork,
in 1843, was received with general silence. His

conclusion, all too sweeping in its generality, of "the

convertibility of heat and mechanical power into one

another, according to the above numerical relations,"

was received with entire incredulity.  He had

proved that work can be converted into heat. He

had not yet proved that heat can be converted into

an equivalent quantity of work. He had indeed

raised the question how much of the heat produced

by the combustion of coal is converted into mechani

cal work by the steam-engine ; and on his assumed

equivalence had shown that the steam-engine utilizes

less than 10 per cent of the assumed equivalent.
Yet in the question " how much" he had touched the

vital point. Before the paper was published he had

already taken another step. Forcing water to flow

with friction through minute nozzles in a perforated

piston, he had found the mechanical work expended

to be converted into heat, with a numerical equiva
lent of 770 as against his previous 838. In 1844

Joule, unaware of a similar suggestion by Mayer --

a suggestion, however, unsupported by any fresh

experimental evidence -- made an inquiry into the

changes of temperature due to the rarefaction and
condensation of air, and from these deduced a

fresh determination of the mechanical equivalence of

heat. In this paper, which was rejected by the

Royal Society, he combated the views of Carnot

and Clapeyron, and reiterated his own conclusion

that the steam in the cylinder of an engine loses

262  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

heat while it is expanding and doing work, and that
on condensation of the steam the heat thus converted

into power is not given back. Joule, then, had read
Carnot and had rejected his theorem ; but he had
read Carnot without realizing that Carnot's cycle,
apart from the erroneous notion that the heat given

out to the condenser was equal to the heat received

from the source, was essentially true. Nor did he
perceive that if the word " caloric " had been used in
the extended sense laid down by Lavoisier --in

whose mind it clearly connoted " energy " rather

than " heat " -- then Carnot's theorem became

a mere truism, that the work done in the cycle

was equivalent to the difference between the heat
received from the boiler and the heat passed on to

the condenser. He failed, as Osborne Reynolds

points out, to observe that his own discoveries
cleared up the only thing that was obscure in Car
not's. But, like many others, Joule lived too near to
his own work to be able even to do justice to the
significance of his own achievements.

    At the British Association Meeting at Cambridge

in June 1845, Joule, undaunted by the chilling re

ception accorded to his earlier papers, read a
communication l before the section of Chemistry

"On the Mechanical Equivalent of Heat." In

this he described an early form of his apparatus
with paddles for measuring the heat disengaged by

    1 Brit. Assoc, Report, 1845, p. 31 ; reprinted in Joule's Scientific Papers,
p. 202. This is an abstract only ; the full paper seems to have been re
written for the Philosophical Magatine, ser. 3, vol. xxvii. p. 205 ; or Scientific

Papers, pp. 202-205.

vi  THERMODYNAMICS                        263

friction of water. This gave 819 foot-pounds as
the equivalent, or, averaging with previous experi
ments, 817. He went on to suggest that the
water of waterfalls should be found correspondingly

warmer at the bottom than at the top of the cascade.

Niagara, for example, 160 feet high, should show

about one-fifth of a Fahrenheit degree of difference.
The paper ended with a deduction from the ex
pansion of gases that there should be a "zero of
temperature " at 480° F. below the freezing-point
of water, the first suggestion of an absolute zero.

Whether Thomson was present at the reading of

this paper is unknown ; but there arose no discussion

upon it.

    Two years passed, and yet once more Joule, in
1847, brought his work before the British Associa
tion1 meeting in Oxford in more perfected form.
In the new apparatus brass paddles revolving in
a fluid were propelled by the descent of weights.

And now for the first time he succeeded in attract

ing notice to his discoveries.            written * in
    Joule's account of the circumstance,

1885, is worth recording :--

    It was in the year 1843 that I read a paper "On the
Calorific Effects of Magneto-Electricity and the Mechanical
Value of Heat " to the chemical section of the British
Association assembled at Cork. With the exception of
some eminent men, among whom I recollect with pride

    1 Brit. Assoc. Report, 1847, p. 55 (abstract); printed in fall Philes.
Magazine, ser. 3, vol. xxxi. p. 173 ; reprinted in Scientific Papers, vol. i.
pp. 276-81. See also Comptes rendus, August 23, 1847, in an article
reprinted in Scientific Papers, vol. i. pp. 283-86.

    1 Scientific Papers, vol. ii. p. 215.

264         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                       CHAP.

Dr. Apjohn, the president of the section, the Earl of Rosse,
Mr. Eaton Hodgkinson, and others, the subject did not
excite much general attention ; so that when I brought it

forward again at the [Oxford] meeting in 1847 the chair
man suggested that, as the business of the section pressed,
I should not read my paper, but confine myself to a
short verbal description of my experiments. This I

endeavoured to do, and discussion not being invited, the

communication would have passed without comment if a

young man had not risen in the section, and by his

intelligent observations created a lively interest in the
new theory. The young man was William Thomson,
who had two years previously passed the University of

Cambridge with the highest honour, and is now probably
the foremost scientific authority of the age.

    Thomson, in 1882, gave his version1 of this

notable episode :--

    I made Joule's acquaintance at the Oxford meeting,
and it quickly ripened into a life-long friendship. I heard

his paper read at the section, and felt strongly impelled

to rise and say that it must be wrong, because the true

mechanical value of heat given, suppose to warm water,

must for small differences of temperature be proportional

to the square of its quantity. I knew from Carnot's law

that this   must be true    (and it is true  ; only   now I call it
" motivity  " in order not   to clash with   Joule's
                                                      " mechanical

value "). But as I listened on and on I saw that (though

Carnot had vitally important truth not to be abandoned)
Joule had certainly a great truth and a great discovery,

and a most important measurement to bring forward.

So instead of rising with my objection to the meeting, I

waited till it was over, and said my say to Joule himself
at the end of the meeting. This made my first intro
duction to him. After that I had a long talk over the

whole matter at one of the conversaziones of the Associa

tion, and we became friends from thenceforward. However,

            1 Nature, vol. xxvi. p. 6 18.

vi                    THERMODYNAMICS                                              265

he did not tell me that he was to be married in a

week or so ; but about a fortnight later I was walking

down from Chamounix to commence the tour of Mont

Blanc, and whom should I meet walking up but Joule,

with a long thermometer in his hand, and a carriage with

a lady in it not far off. He told me that he had been

married since we parted at Oxford ! and he was going to

try for elevation of temperature in waterfalls. We trysted

to meet a few days later at Martigny, and look at the

Cascade de Sallenches to see if it might answer. We

found it too much broken into spray. . . .

     Joule's paper at the Oxford meeting made a great
sensation. Faraday was there and was much struck with

   but did not enter fully into the new views. It was
it,
                                a
                              I
                                            a it

                                          I It

                                                                                                        is
many years after that before any of the scientific chiefs

began to give their adhesion.                 was not long after when

Stokes told me that he was inclined to be a Joulite.
     Miller and Graham, or both, were for many years quite

incredulous as to Joule's results, because they all depended
on fractions of degree of temperature, sometimes very

small fractions. His boldness in making such large

conclusions from such very small observational effects

almost as noteworthy and admirable as his skill in

extorting accuracy from them.                 remember distinctly at

the Royal Society, think was either Graham or Miller

saying simply he did not believe in Joule because he had
nothing but hundredths of degree to prove his case by.

     In another account of the same incident givenis                a
by Lord Kelvin in 1893, at the unveiling of theis
                                                                        p.
Joule statue in Manchester,1 he declared that he
was " tremendously struck with the paper," and
added, " This one of the most valuable recollections

of my life, and indeed as valuable recollection
as can conceive in the possession of any man

interested in science."
    I
                      Nature, vol. xlix.  p.  164; and Pop. Led. ii.        558.
                   1

266  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                         CHAP.

    The meeting of Thomson and Joule proved to
be a notable event for both. Thomson was ob

viously impressed by the sincerity and scientific
merit of Joule's investigations. Yet he found him
self at first, and for many months to come, unable

to accept the views of Joule as to the mutual equiva

lence of heat and work. To his brother James he
wrote after the meeting :--

    I enclose Joule's papers, which will astonish you.  I

have only had time to glance through them as yet.       I

think at present that some great flaws must be found.

Look especially to the rarefaction and condensation of

air, where something is decidedly neglected in estimating

the total change effected in some of the cases.

    Assuredly Joule had shown that in the circum
stances of his varied experiments work could be
turned into heat. But the converse proposition

that heat could be turned into its equivalent of
work, Thomson could by no means accept as
proven. He still clung to the reasoning of Carnot
that heat could furnish motive power when being
let down from a higher to a lower temperature, or
when passing from a hotter to a colder body. And

as he had not yet perceived that this would still be

true even if during the transference some portion of

the heat disappeared, as heat, to be converted into

its equivalent in work, he held back from assenting

to Joule's generalization. He had indeed on April
21, 1847 --that is two months prior to his meeting
with Joule --given to the Glasgow Philosophical
Society an account of Stirling's Hot-Air Engine,

vi  THERMODYNAMICS  267

 with the theory of it deduced on Carnot's principles ;

and at the end of this paper he had propounded the
conclusion that water at 32° F. may be converted
to ice at 32° F. without the expenditure of any
work. Carnot's theory clearly held his mind. Con

fronted now on the one hand by the apparently

irrefragable arguments of Carnot, on the other by
the indisputable experiments of Joule, Thomson

refused to accept the new doctrine until he could

see how it could be reconciled with the old. The

apparent conflict took strong possession of Thomson's
mind and dominated his thoughts.

     Eleven months later Thomson read to the
Cambridge Philosophical Society a paper " On an
Absolute Thermometric Scale Founded on Carnot's

Theory of the Motive Power of Heat, and Calcu

lated from Regnault's Observations." If he had

been considering Joule's suggestion that an absolute
zero of temperature might be deduced from the
expansion of gases, he put it from him on the
ground that any scale based on the expansion of

any gas, even under standard conditions, though it

might be a definite, would not be an absolute scale.
But perceiving that in the Carnot cycle the work
performed by a unit of heat in being let down
(to retain Carnot's phrase) through a degree of
temperature is independent not only of the working
substance, but also of the particular part of the

scale at which the operation occurs, he suggested
this as basis of an absolute scale of temperature,

and calculated a set of tables from Regnault's

268 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

experimental data of latent heats and pressures of

saturated vapour. This paper1 is interesting for the
view it incidentally affords of Thomson's ideas at that
date. Throughout it he uses the term " mechanical
effect " for work done. And he declares that " the

conversion of heat (or caloric) into mechanical
effect is probably impossible, certainly undiscovered.
In actual engines for obtaining mechanical effect
through the agency of heat, we must consequently
look for the source of power, not in any absorp

tion and conversion, but merely in a transmission
of heat." But he at once qualified this sweeping

statement by appending at the word "impossible"

in the sentence above quoted a footnote, which must

be repeated in full :--

     This opinion seems to be nearly universally held by

those who have written on the subject. A contrary

opinion, however, has been advocated by Mr. Joule of Man
chester ; some very remarkable discoveries which he has
made with reference to the generation of heat by the friction
of fluids in motion, and some known experiments with
 magneto-electric machines, seeming to indicate an actual
conversion of mechanical effect into caloric. No experi
 ment, however, is adduced in which the converse operation
is exhibited ; but it must be confessed that, as yet, much
is involved in mystery with reference to these fundamental
 questions of Natural Philosophy.

     The fact is that Thomson was still living in the
pre- Joule order of ideas, and had been prompted to

 write this paper by the publication earlier in the
 year of the first volume of Regnault's memoirs,
 giving the data of latent heats and pressure

                     1 Mathematical and Physical Papers, vol. i. p. 102.

vi  THERMODYNAMICS  269

of vapour on which Thomson's calculations were

founded.

    The footnote wherein Thomson had noted Joule's
heterodox views on the nature of heat -- views

which, in the text of his paper, he dismissed as

"probably impossible, certainly undiscovered" --is

the first trace of an impending admission. But
incidentally it proves that Thomson had either
not read the evidence afforded by Joule's earlier
researches on magneto-electric machines, or else
that he doubted their relevancy. Thomson was

unconvinced.

    At the Swansea meeting of the British Associa

tion in August 1848, Joule recapitulated his former
experiments, described improvements which cor

rected the value of the mechanical equivalent to

771 foot-pounds (per degree Fahrenheit), and
claimed to have established: (1) proof of the
mechanical nature of heat, (2) proof from work
done by condensing and rarefying air that the heat
of gases consists simply in the vis viva of their
particles, (3) that the zero of temperature, deter
mined by the expansion of gases, is at 491° F.

 below the freezing-point.
     Seven months passed, and Thomson communi

 cated to the Royal Society of Edinburgh l a second

paper, "An Account of Carnot's Theory of the

 Motive Power of Heat, with Numerical Results

 deduced from Regnault's Experiments on Steam."

     1 Trans. R. Soc. Edinb. xvi. p. 541 ; read Jan. 2, 1849; reprinted in
 Mathematical and Physical Papers, vol. i. p. 113 ; see also Ann. de chimie,
 xxxv. p. 248, 1852.

270  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

In this paper, which is valuable as being an ex
position in detail of the Carnot cycle, drawn up
after he had succeeded in getting hold of an actual
copy of Carnot's treatise, he recalculated the tables
of his former paper. But he had clearly been

studying Joule's writings, and the references to
them are weighty and numerous. He still uses
the term " mechanical effect " for work performed,
and still accepts as axiomatic "the ordinarily
received and almost universally acknowledged "
principle that in the cycle of operations as much
heat must leave the body as entered it. After

quoting Carnot, and admitting that a most careful

re-examination of the entire experimental basis of
the theory of heat has become urgent, he turns to

Joule and to the evidence which previously he had
ignored.

     The extremely important discoveries recently made by
Mr. Joule of Manchester, that heat is evolved in every part
of a closed electric conductor, moving in the neighbourhood
of a magnet, and that heat is generated by the friction of
fluids in motion, seem to overturn the opinion commonly
held that heat cannot be generated, but only produced from

a source where it has previously existed either in a sensible

or in a latent condition.

   All this is favourable, but he immediately followed
it by a denial :--

    In the present state of science, however, no operation

is known by which heat can be absorbed into a body
without either elevating its temperature, or becoming latent,
and producing some alteration in its physical condition ;
and the fundamental axiom adopted by Carnot may be

vi               THERMODYNAMICS                                271

considered as still the most probable basis for an investiga
tion of the motive power of heat.

     So, still unconvinced, he denied any conversion

of heat or caloric into mechanical effects, declaring
that the quantity of heat " discharged during a com
plete revolution (or double stroke) of the engine
must be precisely equal to that which enters the
water of the boiler." He even added in a note

that this application of Carnot's principle, tacitly
admitted as an axiom, had " never been questioned
by practical engineers." He therefore enunciated
the following principle :--

     The thermal agency by which mechanical effects may
be obtained is the transference of heat from one body to
another at a lower temperature.

    Then he is struck, as Carnot was, by the difficulty,

that in the ordinary conduction of heat from a hot

body to a cold one there is no mechanical effect ;

and he gives expression to his perplexity in a foot

note :--

    When " thermal agency " is thus spent in conducting

heat through a solid, what becomes of the mechanical

effect which it  moifghntatuprreod--ucneo ?     Nothing  can   be lost in
the operations                               energy can    be  destroyed.

What effect then is produced in place of the mechanical

effect which is lost ?

    No "energy"! The very word, then unknown

in its modern signification, here bursts forth in the

intuitive utterance. The note continues :--

    A perfect theory of heat imperatively demands an

answer to this question, yet no answer can be given in

272            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN              CHAP.

the present state of science. A few years ago a similar

confession must have been made with reference to the

mechanical effect lost in a fluid set in motion in the

interior of a rigid closed vessel, and allowed to come to

rest by its own internal friction ; but in this case the
foundation of a solution of the difficulty has been actually

found, in Mr. Joule's discovery of the generation of heat
by the internal friction of a fluid in motion. Encouraged

by this example, we may hope that the very perplexing

question in the theory of heat by which we are at present
arrested, will, before long, be cleared up. It might appear

...that the difficulty would be entirely avoided by abandon
ing Carnot's fundamental axiom.   If we         ddifoficsuolt,iehso--w
ever, we meet with innumerable
                                 other

insuperable without farther experimental investigation,

and an entire reconstruction of the theory of heat from its
               It is                            l that we must
foundation.           in reality to experiment  axiom, and an
               for a  verification of Carnot's
look --either

explanation of the difficulty we have been considering ;
or for an entirely new basis of the theory of heat.

    Having thus shown how his mind was working,
he proceeds on the basis of the Carnot axiom to
expand the theory of the Cycle of operations, de
monstrating anew the reversibility of the Cycle, the

independence of any particular fluid-- air or steam --

as the working substance, and the dependence solely
on the two temperatures, high and low, between
which the cyclic operation is conducted. So far, this
is merely Carnot restated with precision. Then he
notes that the amount of mechanical effects produced
in the Cycle by letting down one unit of heat between

     1 Here Thomson overlooked the existence of several of Joule's series of
experiments which in reality went far to supply the need. It is, however,
curious that no one before Hirn in 1863 seems to have thought it worth while
to measure the actual amount of heat received by the condenser from the
engine, or to compare it with the amount given to the engine by the boiler. --
S.P.T.

vi          THERMODYNAMICS     273

two given temperatures depends upon a certain
coefficient or function, which he calls " Carnot's Co

efficient," which (as Carnot himself observed) has
high values for low temperatures, and low values for

high temperatures ; and he grasps the facts that the

complete investigation of the motive power of heat

turns on the experimental determination of the

numerical values of this coefficient at different tem

peratures. Resorting, then, again to Regnault's

experimental data for air, he calculates these values

and tabulates them for use in the Carnot cycle.
    In an Appendix, read April 3Oth, 1849, he con

tinues this line of thought. He is still worshipping
Carnot. " Nothing," he says, " in the whole range
of Natural Philosophy is more remarkable than the

establishment of general laws by such a process of

reasoning." But, with the doubt as to the funda

mental axiom always haunting him, he tries to

deduce further inferences that can be put to the test

of experiment. He compares the values of the

Carnot's Coefficient as deduced from Clapeyron's

experiments. He discusses the quantities of heat

disengaged by compressing air in Joule's research.
He compares the relative advantages of air-engine

and steam-engine, and the economy of actual steam-

engines. And here, face to face with the engineer's

problem, he is compelled to think about the number

of foot-pounds of work, and to compare the actual

output of a good Cornish engine with the theoretical

output calculated on the basis of Carnot's Coefficient

from the temperatures of boiler and condenser, and

    VOL. I                  T

274  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                              CHAP.

from the data already tabulated by himself. He is

already approximating to Joule's point of view, but
is still not convinced.

    Joule did not publish anything further for a time,
but his mind was busy with the same problem, how

to reconcile Carnot's principle with his own dis

coveries. Indeed he held the key in his own hands.
He had discovered the law of equivalence in those

operations where transformation takes place. Carnot

had found that the amount of work done was de

termined by the temperatures, and depended in

particular upon an unknown function or coefficient

("Carnot's Coefficient," see above), the values of
which were smaller with higher temperatures.

Writing to Thomson on December 9, 1848, Joule
suggested l that the value of this Carnot's Coefficient

varied inversely as the temperature at which the

heat was received, if that temperature were measured

from the absolute zero calculated by himself from the

expansion of gases. Thomson's reply is unknown.
    In June 1849 Faraday communicated to the

Royal Society for Joule, the memoir " On the

Mechanical Equivalent of Heat," which, having

been printed in the Philosophical Transactions, is

most often referred to. It summarised experiments

on the friction of water, mercury, and cast-iron, and

gave the final numerical value of 772 foot-pounds as
the equivalent of the heat required to warm 1 Ib. of

water 1 degree of the Fahrenheit scale.

1 Osborne Reynolds. Memoir of James Prescott Joule, Manchester
Literary and Philosophical Society, series 4, vol. vi. p. 128, Manchester,
1892. See also Thomson's Math, and Phys. Papers, vol.
                                                       ii.      199.
                                                            p.

vi  THERMODYNAMICS                                                                                            275

     Meantime Thomson had been talking to his

brother James 1 upon a curious paradox that arose
from the application of Carnot's reasoning to the
case of ice, leading him to the conclusion that water

at its freezing point may be converted into ice by a

process wholly mechanical, and yet without the final

expenditure of any mechanical work. Professor
James Thomson, on consideration, acutely reasoned
that, unless the absurdity of a perpetual motion is

to be admitted, it is necessary to conclude that the

freezing point becomes lower as the pressure to which
the water is subjected is increased. He supported

this view by imagining a corresponding cycle of
operations in compressing ice. This paper was

read2 on January 2, 1849. A few months later

William Thomson submitted the question to experi

ment in which a pressure of 16.8 atmospheres was
applied. The temperature of the freezing point was
found to have fallen to about 0.232 of one Fahren
heit degree ; the theoretical value, calculated from
the known coefficient of expansion of water in freez
ing being, for this pressure, 0.227. This verifica
tion was published3 in January 1850.

     Success in the prediction of a new and unknown

    1 A letter written by James to his brother on August 4th, 1844, containing

a curious piece of primitive thermodynamics, shows that his mind had long

prevJiouTsrlaynsb. eeRnoyd.irecStoecd.  to such problems.    Jan.  2, 1849;  "Theoretical
                                        Edinb. xvi. p. 541,

Considerations on the Effect of Pressure in Lowering the Freezing Point of

Water," by James Thomson ; reprinted in Cambridge and Dublin Mathe
matical Journal, vol. v. p. 248, Nov. 1850; also reprinted in Lord Kelvin's

Mathematical and Physical Papers, vol. i. p. 1 56.
    3 Proc. Roy. Soc. Edinb.            p. 372, Jan. 1850; reprinted in Philos.
                                        ii.
                                                                     i.

                                                                                                          p.
Mag. xxxvii. p. 123, 1850; and in Pogg. Annalen, Ixxxi.                                                       163, 1850;

also in Mathematical and Physical Papers, vol. p. 165.

276  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

fact that is afterwards experimentally verified hasit,
                                      a
ever been held to be a test of the truth of any
                                                             It
theoretical principle. Again and again in later
years Thomson would revert to his brother's
brilliant prediction as an illustration of the power
of a sound theory to anticipate undiscovered truth.

Coming as it did at a moment when Joule's dis
coveries seemed to throw doubt on the validity of
Carnot's theory, it confirmed him in holding fast to

    even though there seemed no way out of the

existing perplexity save by new experiments.

confirmed Carnot, but did not establish the thermo-

dynamic basis for an absolute zero, nor reveal the
law of transformation.

    Thomson was strong man, and, like many
other strong men, found himself incapable of accept
ing from others views which, though he could not
refute them, he had found himself unable to justify.
For more than two years he had had Joule's de
monstrations before him, and had enjoyed the
personal friendship of their author. He, alone, had
insisted publicly on the importance of these dis

coveries, even though they seemed to overturn the

views he held. He resisted the temptation to throw
over Carnot's theory when he could not reconcile
with the new views, clinging even more tenaciously
to while he recognized that could not express
the whole truth. And the very strength of his

suspended judgment, discouraging as must have

been to Joule, wrought its own reward as the solu
tion dawned upon him. He began to perceive, as
it
                                                it
                                                             it

                                                                                         it

vi  THERMODYNAMICS  277

his Appendix of April 1849 shows, that Carnot's
principle in itself did not deny the possibility of the
transformation of heat into work ; it dealt only with
the proportion which the amount of work accom
plished by the engine bore to the amount of heat
that had entered from the boiler. As stated by
Carnot, it proved nothing as to the amount of heat
that passed into the condenser, and which Carnot

has assumed to be the same. If transformation took

place, then Carnot's principle still governs the trans
formation by determining what amount of the heat

that entered should be transformed into work. It

showed that the efficiency of such transformation
depended solely on the temperatures. It provided

a basis for calculating the answer to the question
how much of the heat that entered was available for

conversion into work. Even when he doubted
most, Thomson had affirmed that " nothing can be

lost in the operations of nature --no energy is lost."
He now saw that, though not lost, it might not be

available for transformation.

    In the middle of this time of suspense two new
thinkers, Rankine and Clausius, stepped into the
arena. Rankine, a rising engineer, only three years
senior to Thomson (and later his colleague at Glas
gow), in December 1849 sent to the Edinburgh Royal
Society a remarkable paper l " On the Mechanical
Action of Heat," in which he deliberately developed
a theory of heat from the basal hypothesis that in
an elastic fluid the quantity of heat is the vis viva

                             1 Trans. K. S. Edint. xx. p. 147.

278        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN              CHAP.

of the molecular movements of the molecules. He

imagined a special hypothesis of molecular vortices

with rotational or oscillatory movements. On this

basis he developed with great mathematical skill

the equations for the relations between pressure,

volume, temperature, and heat, for air and for steam.

He accepted, with certain reserve, Joule's experi

mental results ; and in this and another paper two

months later he deduced general laws which in

effect included Carnot's principle, and defined a
certain " thermodynamic function " of great im

portance.

     Incidentally Rankine discussed the phenomenon

well known to engineers, that steam issuing through

an orifice from a high-pressure boiler does not scald,

as low-pressure steam does. Now any saturated
steam, if slightly cooled so as to permit of the con

densation of minute liquid spherules, does scald ;

hence the inference that the friction through the

orifice actually superheated the steam and prevented

saturation, even though the steam in expanding

must absorb the heat necessary for its expansion.
This circumstance seems to have arrested Thom

son's attention, for on October 15th of the same
                                  following terms :--
year he wrote to   Joule in the
                   can, I think,  be reconciled with
" This conclusion

known facts only by means of your discovery, that

heat is evolved by the friction of fluids in motion."

Joule, overjoyed, at once sent Thomson's letter for

publication in the Philosophical Magazine.

     Clausius, of Zurich, communicated to the Berlin

vi  THERMODYNAMICS  279

Academy of Sciences, in February 1850, a paper1 in

which he had followed out almost the same line of

thought. Starting with Joule's principle of equiva
lence, and from a general proposition, somewhat like

Rankine's but less restricted, as to the dynamical
properties of gases, he deduced, as Joule had done,
an absolute zero of temperatures ; and, as Joule had
already suggested in his (unpublished) letter to

Thomson fourteen months earlier, he adopted the

reciprocal of the absolute temperature (assumed
from the properties of supposed perfect gases) as

the Carnot Coefficient, so enabling him to state the
Carnot theory in terms consistent with Joule's dis
coveries. He thus arrived at a vague statement of
the law of transformation as embodying the principle

that heat tends to pass from hot bodies to colder

ones. The best thing in Clausius's paper is the
following remark :--

     It is not even necessary to cast the theory of Carnot
overboard. . . . On a nearer view of the case we find that

the new theory is opposed, not to the real fundamental
principle of Carnot, but to his addition " no heat is lost " ;

for it is quite possible that in the production of work both
may take place at the same time, a certain portion of

heat may be consumed, and a further portion transmitted
from a warm body to a cold ; and both portions may
stand in a certain definite relation to the quantity of work
produced.

   This, so far as it goes, is admirably clear. If it

still needed to be formulated in terms that would

enable the proportions of heat utilized and wasted

              Ann. It should be remembered that Clausius restated his theory

much more clearly in 1854, and again in 1864, on its republication.

28o  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

to be calculated, and to be freed from undemon-

strated assumptions, this conclusion was yet im
portant enough to secure for Clausius a place
amongst the founders of thermodynamics.

    Thomson was therefore forestalled in two direc

tions in his quest for a consistent basis for the
theory of heat : by Rankine, in the application of
the principle of equivalence to explain some diffi
culties in the known behaviour of steam and other

vapours under change of pressure ; by Clausius, in
the adoption of a hypothesis which would enable
him to reconcile the theories of Carnot and Joule.

    Thomson's mind was never satisfied by reasoning

that started from insecure hypotheses or unwarranted

assumptions. He could be satisfied neither with

Clausius's doctrine that heat always tends to pass

from the hotter body to the colder (an assumption
incompatible with Prevost's law of exchanges), nor
with Rankine's hypothesis of molecular vortices.

He must have some more valid grounds for general
ization. Nor was he long in finding such. He

drew Joule's attention to Clausius's work, and then
continued to think the thing out in his own way.
In March 1851 he read to the Royal Society of
Edinburgh a memoir " On the Dynamical Theory
of Heat," which at once put matters in a new light.
This memoir was an example of exquisite codifica
tion of isolated points, and a masterly exposition,
freed from unnecessary hypotheses, of the new de
velopments of the theory. Beginning with Davy,
proceeding then to the experiments of Mayer and

vi  THERMODYNAMICS  281

Joule, whose work he now takes as fundamental,

and glancing at the mathematical arguments of
Rankine and Clausius, he states that the objects of

the present paper are: (1) To show how Carnot's

theory must be modified ; (2) to point out the
significance of his own former deductions from Car

not's theory and Regnault's observations (viz. the

calculation of an absolute scale of temperatures),

and to show that when taken in connection with

Joule's mechanical equivalent of heat a complete
theory of the motive power of heat is obtained ; (3)
to deduce some remarkable relations connecting the
physical properties of all substances. In the first
part he considers the " work done," or " mechanical
effect " of an engine in a cycle of operations. Then
he asserts that "the whole theory of the motive

power of heat is founded on the two following

propositions " :--

    PROP. I. (Joule). --When equal quantities of mechanical

effects are produced by any means whatever from purely
thermal sources, or lost in purely thermal effects, equal
quantities of heat are put out of existence or are generated.

    PROP. II. (Carnot and Clausius). -- If an engine be such

that when it is worked backwards, the physical and
mechanical agencies in every part of its motions are all
reversed, it produces as much mechanical effect as can be
produced by any thermodynamic engine, with the same
temperatures of source and refrigerator, from a given
quantity of heat.

   The first of these propositions is the law of

equivalence, merely needing the numerical value of

Joule's equivalent to be stated.

282  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                         CHAP.

    The second proposition, though not expressed in

a form that would serve as a basis for calculations,

is  the great law of transformation.
    Thomson generously assigns it--or
                                       so  much  of  it

as is not Carnot's --to Clausius, who had given a
demonstration based upon the axiom : It is impos

sible for a self-acting machine, unaided by external

agency, to convey heat from one hot body to anotfier at

a higher temperature. But Thomson himself gave

a different demonstration derived from the much

Itmore fundamental axiom :-- is impossible, by means

of inanimate material agency, to derive mechanical
effect from any portion of matter by cooling it below
the temperature of the coldest of the surrounding
objects. The limitation to inanimate agency is char
acteristic of Thomson, and significant. He then

went on to apply these laws in a rigorous way to
the discussion of the known methods of producing

mechanical effect from thermal agency : first, con

sidering Joule's investigation of the heat-values of
the mechanical and chemical effects produced by

electric currents ; secondly, dealing with the work
done by the expansion of air when heated. In this

latter investigation, which is in strict mathematical

form, he assigned the symbol J, in honour of Joule,

to the number expressing the mechanical equivalent

of heat. He retained the old form of " Carnot's

function," making no assumptions. And he pointed
out that if the temperature-range in a Carnot's cycle

be small, the amount of the realizable effect will be

only a small fraction of the equivalent of the heat

v.              THERMODYNAMICS                                                                                                       283

supplied ; " the remainder being irrevocably lost to

man, and therefore ' wasted,' although not annihi

lated." The bearings of this pregnant sentence1

demand consideration later. He then proceeded to

reconstruct his thermodynamic scale of absolute

temperatures, and to deduce afresh the formulae for
the efficiency of the perfect engine working between,

two given temperatures, and to recalculate the tables

for efficiencies at various temperatures of boiler and

condenser. In a third part of the memoir he ex

tended the application of the theory to other

relations between the physical properties of all

substances, particularly changes of state, such as

freezing and evaporation. In a fourth part, dated

April 1 7th, 1851, he is testing the laws which govern

the expansion and pressure of gases, the work spent

in compressing  and the heat            produces by
                it,

                                                                     ;

                                               it

                                                          a
                                                         is
                                                                              a
friction when forced through an orifice. Still work

ing at the subject, he published, in December 1851,

fifth part of this Dynamical theory and now he had

definitely adopted the term energy, and discussing

the mechanical energy of a body in given state,

and its investigation by experiment. With these

extensions the Memoir of 1851, as reprinted in

Thomson's Mathematical and Physical Papers,

occupies fifty-eight pages. A sixth part, which,

with notes, occupies one hundred pages more, and

which deals chiefly with thermo-electric currents, was

not added till May 1854.

    In 1875 Sir W. Thomson wrote to the Duke of Argyll "The wear
    1
           is

                     it

                                 I
                                                                                                                                  :
and tear, as  were, which have shown to accompany every dynamical

action not an annihilation of energy."

284               LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                CHAP.

Before considering further developments, we may

pause on the significance of the law of transforma

tion -- or second law of thermodynamics -- now

established. Thomson had derived while faithful
                            :

                                       it
                                              is

                                                it,
to the Carnot conceptions of a cycle of operations

and an ideal engine of perfect reversibility, by postu

lating a certain negation that                     impossible by

means of inanimate material agency to derive

mechanical effect from any portion of matter by
cooling below the temperature of the coldest of
it
     is

              it
the surrounding objects. Though called an axiom

     by no means self-evident the utmost that we
                                         it :
can say about     that while                 is  true (for cyclical
                  it
                       is
                             is
                                     is
processes), its truth not rigorously demonstrable

from first principles, but               consonant with the facts

of experience, no contradiction of having ever   it
been observed. It in one sense, a mere pragma
tism. To the end of his life Lord Kelvin wouldis,

admit that the second law of thermodynamics was      a
law of " natural history," rather than of natural

philosophy. Further, the formulation of the lawin

Thomson held back from accepting the suggestion
of substituting for the " Carnot's function " the

reciprocal of the absolute temperature, in terms of

the gas scale, as proposed independently by Joule and
Clausius. Having thought out the correct principles

of an absolute thermodynamic scale, he was not pre

pared to accept in lieu of a scale derived from theit
expansion of any known " permanent " gas, whether

air, hydrogen, or other, until he should have satis

fied himself that the physical properties of the gas

vi                                      THERMODYNAMICS                            285

in question justified such acceptance. The test of

perfection of such a gas was to be found by trying
whether, if driven under high pressure through a
fine nozzle or porous plug, its temperature was

either raised or lowered. If it showed no change of

temperature it might for this purpose be regarded
as perfect, and its scale of expansion might be taken
as accordant with the absolute scale. Already
Thomson had arranged with Joule to conduct a

conjoint research on this very point. As a matter
of fact a slight cooling effect -- called the Joule-
Thomson effect --is observed with most gases, and
is nowadays utilized in the commercial processes for

the liquefaction of air and hydrogen.
    The law of transformation governs the answer to

the question : what fraction of the heat that enters
is utilized by being transformed into work ? And,

when numerically stated, the answer which it givesis is,                          aa
    the same fraction1 as the fall of temperature bears1
              is
to the absolute temperature of supply, as measureda
from the true zero of temperatures. Thomson saw,
however, much deeper than the formulation of

numerical value. If heat, in a gas, consists in

        As well known, the              fraction   which states how much of  the  hfoeramt usluap--plied
    transformed by perfect              engine     into work expressed by    the
                                                             is
                                                        T-T          ?

where T' and T are the respective temperatures, on the thermodynamic or
absolute scale, of the boiler and condenser. It was immortalized by James
                                        one verse  of       poem read at the Glasgow Philosophical
Napier,   in 1877,   by                 Thomson     --:
Society,  addressed    to                                a

                                        itWhen you yourself once taught me
                                            Heat's greatest work to know,

                                        Wasn't T dash minus T,
                                          With a T dash down below

286  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

diffused motion of the particles, jostling and collidingis,
with one another as they fly about, then it will be
intelligible that to obtain work from them by causing
the expansion to produce a mechanical movement in
some definite direction, there must be some direct

ing or guiding of the movements of the particles.
Man's power to recover thus from the miscellaneous
molecular movements their inherent energy clearly
depends upon his being able to take advantage of
the tendency to equilibrium between different parts
of the system that are in different states. When any
portion of hot gas has cooled down to the tempera
ture of its surroundings, it is no longer available as a
source of power, whatever the degree of temperature
of itself and its surroundings may then be. But as
the movements of the particles in a gas at a given
temperature are not all equal amongst themselves,
some moving quicker and some slower than the

average, the temperature is after all only an average

statistically. And if we could sort out the quick-

moving ones from the slow-moving ones, we could
avail ourselves of the greater pressure of the quick-
moving crowd to produce further energy from the
gas. But our means are too clumsy to deal with such
minute things as individual molecules ; and the very
magnitude of the scale on which we have to work

renders such further energy unavailable to man ; un

available, that by any inanimate or unintelligent
material agency. Maxwell, indeed, indulged in the
imagination that there might be conceived little

intelligent beings -- "demons" -- who by opening

vi  THERMODYNAMICS  287

frictionless sliding doors might let through any

quick-flying molecules, and close them against slow-
moving ones. It is even conceivable that there
might be bacteria or other organisms of minute
enough scale to conduct similar operations. From
the law of transformation as formulated by Thomson

all such supposititious cases are excluded.
    Now it happened that in the very year when

Joule and Thomson first met, Helmholtz, then a
young army surgeon at Potsdam, published his
celebrated paper On the Conservation of Force,
which though rejected by the leading physicists of

Germany, won its way to permanent recognition.
Helmholtz, starting like Carnot from the denial of
the possibility of perpetual motion, conceived the
great generalization that the sum of the energies in
the universe (supposed to be itself finite) is constant,
and that whenever force (meaning thereby vis-viva,
or energy of motion) disappears it is not lost, but is
converted into an equivalent of some other kind of

energy. Helmholtz had already for several years
abandoned the idea of the material nature of heat,

and had accepted Joule's earliest determinations of
the equivalent. His physiological studies under
Miiller had led him to consider the origin of the
heat of animals. In this new work, which proved

his powers as a mathematical physicist, he went the

round of the branches of physics, showing instance
after instance of the conservation of energy during
its transformation from one species to another, in

mechanics, heat, electrostatics, and magnetism.

288 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

    For some reason Thomson never saw Helm-
holtz's memoir until January aOth, 1852, when he
found that Helmholtz had already touched some of
the matters with which he had been occupied. But
Helmholtz, in accepting Joule's position as to the
conversion of heat into work, had thrown over

Carnot's principle, and had not attempted to formu
late any law as to the proportion of heat available

for transformation.

   If the doctrine of the Conservation of Energy

thus enunciated by Helmholtz won its way to
acceptance by all physicists, for whom indeed the
earlier work of Faraday and of Grove had made its

comprehension easy, there yet remained another
general principle, of equal importance, to be dis
covered. By the very suspense of judgment which
Thomson had exercised in the middle of his per
plexity as to the Carnot principle, he had in reality

won a new insight. If only a fraction of the heat

that entered the engine was available to be trans
formed into mechanical work, what became of the

remainder ? He had already (p. 283) found the
answer. It was "irrevocably lost to man, and
therefore ' wasted,' though not annihilated." Having
been " let down " (in Carnot's phrase) to the cool
temperature of the surrounding objects, it had lost
its availability to be transformed into useful work.
And, clearly, as heat tended always to equilibrium
--the hot body to cool down to its surroundings--
the diffusion of heat by conduction (which had
puzzled both Carnot and himself at an earlier stage),

vi          THERMODYNAMICS        289

where none of the heat is utilized, could only end in a
loss of available energy. What was lost in trans

formation processes was not energy, but availability
of energy. And this loss was always going on in
Nature wherever hot bodies were cooling down ;
and there was no compensating regeneration, for
that would have required a fresh expenditure of

mechanical energy.

   All this dawned on Thomson early in 1852.
First he sent to the Royal Society of Edinburgh a
discussion l of the source of animal power, and of

the sources available to man for the production of
mechanical effect. He sees clearly that animals can

do work at the expense of their food, through the

chemical oxidation going on in digestion and
respiration. He denies that the animal's body acts

as a thermodynamic engine, converting heat into
work between definite temperatures, and regards it
as more probable that the chemical forces produce

the external mechanical effects through electrical

means. Of the sources available to man the chief
one was the heat radiated from the sun -- the source

(if we include luminous radiations) of our coal-fields
and our timber as well as of our water-power ; the

second source being the motions and attractions
of the earth, sun, and moon, to which the tides

are due.

    In April 1852 he followed this up by a short

   1 free. Roy. Soc. Edin. iii. p. 108, Feb. 1852 : " On the Mechanical

Action of Radiant Heat or Light ; On the Power of Animated Creatures over

Matter ; On the Sources available to Man for the production of Mechanical
Effect"; also Philos. Mag. iv. p. 256, Oct. 1852; reprinted Math, and

Phys. Papers, vol. i. p. 505.
    VOL. I
                               U

290  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                           CHAP.

paper1 bearing the pregnant title, "On a Universal

Tendency in Nature to the Dissipation of Mechani
cal Energy." This paper begins by classifying stores
of energy into two categories, statical and dynami
cal, or, as we should now say (using the adjectives
introduced by Rankine and Thomson respectively),
potential and kinetic. Then recurring to his own
axiom as to the impossibility of deriving mechanical
effect by cooling below the temperature of the
coldest surroundings, he points out that in the case
only of a reversible process can the heat energy be

restored to its primitive high-temperature condition ;
that in any irreversible process, such as friction,
there is a dissipation of mechanical energy, and

perfect restoration is impossible ; and that there is

also dissipation when light or radiant heat are
absorbed otherwise than in vegetation or chemical
action. Then in the steam-engine, the remainder of
the heat that is not converted into work is "absolutely
and irrevocably wasted," unless some use is made of
the heat discharged from the condenser. The paper

concludes with the following three propositions :--

      1. There is at present in the material world a universal
tendency to the dissipation of mechanical energy.

    2. Any restoration of mechanical energy, without
more than an equivalent of dissipation, is impossible in

inanimate material processes, and is probably never
effected by means of organised matter, either endowed
with vegetable life or subjected to the will of an animated

creature.

    1 Proc. Roy. Soc. Edin. iii. p. 139,  April 19,  1852 ; also   Philos. Mag.
iv. p. 304, Oct. 1852 ; reprinted Math,   and Phys.  Papers, vol.  i. p. 511.

vi             THERMODYNAMICS                                                           291

     3. Within a finite period of time past the earth must
have been, and within a finite period of time to come
the earth must again be, unfit for the habitation of man

as at present constituted, unless operations have been or

are to be performed which are impossible under the laws

to which the known operations going on at present in the

material world are subject.

    With this momentous pronouncement, the truth
of which has never been seriously challenged, one
might well conclude a chapter on Thomson's work
in thermodynamics, were it not that his contribu

tions to that science did not end there.

    We have seen how Clausius and Rankine were

on his heels, and during subsequent years there
arose much needless controversy as to individual

claims to particular points. Tyndall, on the one

hand, recklessly advocated a priority for Mayer
over Joule, while Tait with unsparing vigour de
nounced the claims of Mayer and of Clausius.
Thomson stood as far as possible aloof from all
this. In matters of priority in scientific discovery

he was always generous ; and he had shown re
markable generosity l toward Clausius in coupling

his name with that of Carnot as to the law of
transformation, since Clausius had then done little

more than restate in mathematical language the
equation of the Carnot cycle, improved by the arbi
trary substitution of the reciprocal of the absolute

    1 In the Revue des Sciences Scientifiques for Feb. 8, 1868, there appeared

an article, on the second law of thermodynamics, by Clausius, from which all

mention of     the name of     Carnot was     absent.       Thomson,  :--on  receiving  this
article, sent  it on to Tait,  after writing  on it this    comment
to p"ra1y!fWorithClanuosiums.en"tion of the name of Carnot
                                                            O T' return --But don't forget

292  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                     CHAP.

temperature reckoned on a gas-scale not yet proven
to be thermodynamically valid. But Thomson
never was grudging of the fame of independent
discoverers. " Questions of personal priority," he
wrote, " however interesting they may be to the
persons concerned, sink into insignificance in the
prospect of any gain of deeper insight into the

secrets of nature." In March 1855 Clausius wrote1
to the Philosophical Magazine grumbling that
Thomson, by speaking of " Mr. Joule's conjecture"
that Carnot's function might prove to be reciprocal
of the absolute temperature, had ascribed the dis
covery of this proposition to Joule instead of to him
self. To this claim for priority Thomson replied2
by quoting exactly what he had said in his paper of
1851, where, discussing Joule's suggestion of 1848

he had referred not only to Clausius's deduction, but

to Mayer's still earlier assumption which Clausius
had adopted without adducing any reason from

experiment. To Thomson's quiet and unassertive

reply no rejoinder was made. Thomson's dignified
refusal, in May 1862, to bandy recriminations with
Tyndall over Mayer's claims is another instance of

his attitude.

    To perfect the available data for further develop
ments, Thomson embarked upon a large number of

experimental investigations which occupied much of
his time for some years. Conjointly with Joule he
published several important papers on the thermal
effects experienced by air in rushing through small

     1 Published in the May number, p. 388.  s Ibid. p. 447.

vi  THERMODYNAMICS  293

apertures, and on the thermal effects of fluids in
motion. They also investigated the density of
saturated steam, and compared the scale of the
air- thermometer with the thermodynamic scale
deduced from Carnot's principle. They measured
the heating effect experienced by a body whirled
rapidly through the air. These researches were

conducted at Joule's house near Manchester.
     Other researches, principally on thermo-electric

phenomena and on the thermal relations of elas

ticity, and on thermometry, were carried out in the
laboratory of Glasgow University by Thomson and
his enthusiastic handful of volunteer students.

     Both Thomson and Clausius continued to work

at the theoretical aspects of the subject.
     Clausius confined himself rather to the purely

thermal questions, handling them with great mathe

matical skill. Coming in 1855 upon the physical
conception previously considered by Rankine under
the name of "thermodynamic function," which is
the quotient of any quantity of heat by the absolute

temperature at which the quantity enters (or leaves)
the cycle of operations, he gave to it the name of

entropy, and proceeded to lay down the doctrine
that the entropy of the universe tends to a maxi

mum. This is indeed only another way of viewing
the doctrine of the dissipation of energy, and is
much less easy to grasp, because of the inherent
difficulty of framing a conception as to what entropy
itself is. Even so acute a mind as that of Maxwell
failed to comprehend it ; and the conception of

294  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

entropy does not seem to have appealed to Thom
son. He makes no use of it in any of his later
writings. For, indeed, he had his own way of

thinking of the matter, and that way was of much
wider generality than that of Clausius. His con
ception of the availability, or non- availability, of
energy is of much greater sweep, not being confined

to thermodynamics, but running through the whole
of energetics. The later developments of gas
theory due to Maxwell, Boltzmann, and others

came mostly after 1871 ; and such part as Thomson
took in them belongs chiefly to a later period of his

life. But in 1855 he had already travelled far

ahead. In a paper1 which appeared in April 1855

in the first number  of   thtietle,Qu"arOtenrlytheJouTrhnearml oo-f
Mathematics, under   the

elastic and Thermomagnetic Properties of Matter,
Part I.," occurs a very important departure. In an

exquisite bit of argument after the manner of

Carnot, based on the consideration of the work

done on a system in a cycle of operations, in

changing its physical state at a constant tempera
ture, Thomson deduced the conclusion that the heat

taken in is equal to the difference between the

increment of the total intrinsic energy and the
potential energy acquired by the system. Or, con

versely, the available energy that the system can

utilise in any such operation is the difference be

tween the decrement of its total intrinsic energy

     1 Reprinted with certain additions in Philos. Mag. v. p. 4, Jan. 1878 ;
also Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. i. p. 291.

vi  THERMODYNAMICS  295

and the heat given up by the system. This is in
effect the starting-point for the later extensions of
thermodynamics, which in the hands of Helmholtz,
Gibbs, Van't Hoff, and Planck have carried energy-

principles into every corner of physics.

     Helmholtz cherished an unconcealed admiration
for Thomson's deductions. In his last Konigsberg
report, on matters bearing on the Theory of Heat,
in the year 1852, he referred to them 1 in the follow

ing terms :-- " These consequences of the Law of
Carnot are, of course, only valid provided that

the law, when sufficiently tested, proves to be

universally correct. In the meantime there is little
prospect of the law being proved incorrect. At
all events, we must admire the sagacity of Thomson,
who, in the letters of a long-known little mathe
matical formula, which only speaks of the heat,

volume, and pressure of bodies, was able to dis
cern consequences which threatened the universe,
though certainly after an infinite period of time, with

eternal death."

    1 Helmholtz, Popular Lectures, translated by E. Atkinson, 1873, vol. i.

p. 172.

CHAPTER VII

THE LABORATORY

Nata est ars ab experimento. -- QUiNTlLIAN.

IN the first years of Thomson's professorship at

Glasgow he had reorganized the teaching of

Natural Philosophy, and, as we have seen, had

secured many improvements in the material equip

ment for the illustration of the lectures by experi

ments. But as his investigations of physics pro

ceeded, he found himself hampered by the lack of

accurate data upon which to base his theoretical

investigations. From Regnault in Paris he had

learned the importance of minute and accurate

measurement of physical quantities, and he had seen

how, in the patient and skilful hands of Joule, a

magical accuracy of measurement could be attained
                             If data were not
in quantitative experiment.

forthcoming he must ascertain them for himself.

There was no laboratory attached to the depart

ment of Natural Philosophy, still less was there

any idea of instructing students in laboratory exer

cises. The altogether inadequate state of the

apparatus at the disposal of the Professor has been

detailed on p. 193, above. Up to the year 1847

296

CHAP, vii  THE LABORATORY            297

the University class had met at 9 A.M. for Natural

Philosophy lectures, and at 8 P.M. for lectures in

Experimental Physics.                In 1847 the latter course

was altered to n A.M.                By 1863 the work of the

second hour had been changed to the more mathe

matical part of the work and to exercises, the 9 o'clock

lecture being more experimental.
    Driven, then, by force of circumstances Thomson

sought for the opportunity to follow out experi

mental research. About the year 1850 an old
disused wine-cellar l in the College basement, adjoin

ing the natural philosophy class-room, was taken

possession of. To this was joined, eighteen

years later, the abandoned Blackstone examination

room ; an unauthorised annexation.   In these in

convenient surroundings Thomson set to work, with

such appliances as he could lay hands upon, to

supply the data of which he stood in need. Some

of his earliest determinations were concerned with

1 " In my time," said the late Professor Ayrton, who was a student in the

'sixties, "Thomson's laboratory consisted of one room and the adjoining coal-
cellar, the latter being the birth-place of the siphon recorder. . . . There

was no special apparatus for students' use in the laboratory, no contrivances

such as would to-day be found in any polytechnic, no laboratory course, no

special hours for students to attend, no assistants to advise or explain, no

marks given for laboratory work, no workshop, and even no fee to be paid.
But the six or eight students who worked in that laboratory felt that the
entrie was a great privilege. . . . Thomson's students experimented in his
one room and the adjoining coal-cellar, in spite of the atmosphere of coal
Ifdust, which settled on everything, produced by a boy coming periodically to
shovel up coal for the fires.  for some test a student wanted a resistance

coil, or a Wheatstone's bridge, he had to find some wire, wind the coil, and
adjust it for himself. It is difficult to make the electrical student of to-day

realise what were the difficulties, but what were also the splendid compensat

ing advantages of the electrical students under Thomson in the 'sixties. . . .

But oh ! the delight of those days '. Would we have exchanged them, had

the choice been given us, for days passed in the most perfectly designed

laboratory of the twentieth century without him ? No ! for the inspiration of

our lives would have been wanting."

298       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                             CHAP.

the thermo-electric properties of the metals. Others

related to elasticity and other properties of matter

under stress. To assist him, he organized a body

of voluntary helpers from amongst his students,

who, excited by his infectious enthusiasm, worked

with him and for him.
    The Bangor address (p. 845) tells of their work: --

I found as many as three-quarters of the students were

destined for service in the religious denominations in after

life. I have frequently met some of those old students

who had entered upon their profession as ministers, and

have found that they always recollected with interest

their experimental work at the University. They felt

that the time they had spent in making definite and

accurate measurements had not been thrown away,

because it educated them in accuracy --it educated them

in perseverance if they acquired such education. . . .

There is  one thing I  fecehlemstircoanl glylabionrarteosrpieesc--t tiot  investiga
tion in                                                                   leaves no
          physical or

room for shady, doubtful distinctions between truth, half-

truth, whole falsehood. In the laboratory everything

tested or tried is found either true or not true. Every

result is true. Nothing not proved true is a result ; there

is no such thing as doubtfulness.

    Fitful as the work was at first, and erratic as were

the varying requirements of the time, the results

which followed from this primitive laboratory were of

enduring worth. It was the first physical laboratory
to be put at the disposal of students in any of the
universities. Years afterwards, at the jubilee of Sir
George Stokes, in June 1899, Lord Kelvin declared

that Stokes's room at Cambridge was the first physical
laboratory to be formed in any university in Great
Britain. But Stokes was essentially an individual

vii  THE LABORATORY  299

worker, making his own experiments, unaided by
assistants or students, so that the Glasgow labora
tory must really be accounted the first working
laboratory for physical science. Thomson does not
seem to have made the acquaintance of Stokes till
after his return from Paris in May 1845; at least
Stokes's name never occurs in Thomson's earlier
letters or in his diary. Yet he was settled in Pem
broke as a junior fellow, having been Senior
Wrangler in 1841. It seems that it was the task

of editing the Mathematical Journal which brought

them together ; and Stokes's penchant for experi
menting led Thomson often to seek his advice.
Stokes was indeed guide, philosopher, and friend

to his eager and enthusiastic disciple. While
Thomson was daring in speculation, moving swiftly,
almost erratically, to some intuitive result, Stokes
was methodical, conservative, cautious. When as

young men they paced the quadrangles of the

ancient colleges, discussing keenly the deep prob
lems of mathematical physics, each supplied some

thing to the other's mental equipment, and each in
his own mode was unrivalled in attacking the un
solved problems of physics. Whenever the letters
between Stokes and Thomson come to be published,
it will be seen how invaluable to both was the

friendship so formed. Stimulus on the one hand,
measured judgment on the other, went ever with

the deepest and most scrupulous regard for scientific

truth. "Consult Stokes" was Thomson's continual
word-- and action --when any doubtful proposition

300  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

presented itself for decision. "What would Thom
son think ? " was equally the mental attitude of
Stokes. For more than fifty years each was in the
habit of communicating to the other the progress of
his ideas --so much so that often they could not be
certain with which of them the original suggestion

arose. A notable example occurs in relation to the

subject of Spectrum Analysis. Thomson had, in
1850, witnessed the brilliant experiments of Fou-
cault on the spectra given by the use of the electric

arc lamp (see p. 224), the bright lines in the spectra
of the metals sodium, copper, silver, etc., and
of the reversal of the sodium line, giving a
black line of absorption in place of the character
istic yellow. Talking these things over with
Stokes, the suggestion of a physical explanation
was perceived by them. In the hot vapours each
metallic particle is free to vibrate with its own
natural mode or modes of vibration, and emits its

own characteristic kind of light as a bright line or
lines ; and the absorption indicated by the dark

lines in the spectrum can be accounted for by

admitting that the vibrating particles can take up,
in their own natural modes of vibration, all (or
most) of the energy of those constituents of mixed
light trying to pass through the vapour, which have
the same periods as those modes. Thomson often

said that this, the elementary theory of spectrum
analysis, he learned from Stokes. " He taught it
to me at a time that I can fix in one way indisput
ably. I never was at Cambridge once from about

vii  THE LABORATORY  301

June 1852 to May 1865 ; and it was at Cambridge,
walking about in the grounds of the colleges, that
I learned it from Stokes " (Baltimore Lectures,
p. 101). The same inquiry formed the subject of
correspondence between the friends in 1854 (Col
lected Papers of Sir G. G. Stokes, vol. iv. p. 367).
But Stokes was always loth to accept the credit of

this discovery. At the Stokes Memorial meeting
at Westminster Abbey in July 1904, Lord Rayleigh

commented thus : " Stokes was always very modest

upon this subject, and almost repudiated the credit

which Lord Kelvin wished to give him. All one
could say was that the thing lay between Lord
Kelvin and Stokes. The letters which passed

between them in 1854 showed plainly enough that
the idea was there. Lord Kelvin told them he got
his inspirations from Stokes. It might be, and was

likely enough, that he developed them ; but, at any

rate, between the two correspondents they had the

whole theory." But by the wholesome rule accepted

by men of science, no private communications, oral

or written, can establish priority to any scientific

discovery ; hence it is important to note that, for

many years prior to 1860, Thomson was in the

regular practice of stating in his public lectures at

Glasgow this theory, pointing out that solar and

stellar chemistry were to be studied by comparing

the dark lines of solar and stellar spectra with the

corresponding bright lines in the spectra of artificial

flames. A letter of his in 1860 to Helmholtz

states this. Thomson's fullest account of his part

302  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                          CHAP.

was given in his Presidential Address (1871) to the
British Association, reprinted in Popular Lectures,

vol. 169. In 1902 Lord Kelvin wrote to
     ii.
           : p.

                             '
Professor Konigsberger the following additional
"Istatement
                                well remember that at that time
                                          it, '
was making Properties of Matter the subject of            is
my Friday morning lectures. One Friday morning
                                                                I
  had been telling my students that we must expectI
the definite discovery of other metals in the sun

besides sodium, by the comparison of Fraunhofer's
solar dark lines with artificial bright lines. The

next Friday morning brought Helmholtz's letterI
with me into my lecture and read by which they

were told that the thing had actually been done

with splendid success by Kirchhoff."              In an

appreciation by Professor John Ferguson in the

Glasgow University Magazine of 1908,              the

following passage on the subject of Stokes's ex
planation of the cause of the dark line D in the

solar spectrum, namely, absorption by sodium
vapour in the sun's atmosphere, and Thomson's

lecture on in 1859 --
     it

                               ;
                                    :
   This was explained to us in illustration of picture
                                          ;

                                                    a
                                                          a

                                                                a

                                                                   I
of Fraunhofer's lines and either then or a little later

remember Thomson trying to demonstrate to a few of us

the phenomenon by observing the flame of spirit-lamp

made yellow with little common salt through sodium
                                a

vapour got by heating the metal in a platinum capsule.

Ten days after this lecture he read to the class  letter

he had received the same morning from Helmholtz at
                                    was narrated how " Kirchhoff had
Heidelberg. In                  it

ascertained that the flame of sodium supplied the line

D in the spectrum, of potassium Aa and    B  in the red,

vii  THE LABORATORY                          303

iron Eb in the blue, und so weiter" and Thomson was

not slow to add that there must be an immense amount
of iron in the sun's atmosphere, and throughout space.

     At an even earlier period of Thomson's acquaint

ance with Stokes they had planned together the

writing of a series of Notes on Hydrodynamics for

the Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal,

several of which notes duly appeared. In present

ing the Copley medal in 1903    to Stokes,   Lord
Kelvin recalled Stokes's work.
                                " Fifty-two  years

ago he took up the subject of fluid motion, with

mathematical power amply capable to advance on

the lines of Lagrange, Fourier, Cauchy, Poisson, in

the splendid nineteenth -century 'physical mathe

matics,' invented and founded by those great men ;

and with a wholly original genius for discovery

in properties of real matter, which enhanced the

superlative beauty of the mathematical problems

by fresh views deep into the constitution of matter."

Thomson could be enthusiastic indeed over the
qualities of his friend. " I always consult my great
authority Stokes whenever I get a chance " was an

aside in the Baltimore Lectures. At the Stokes
Jubilee of 1899 Lord Kelvin said :--

    When I reflect on my own early progress, I am led to

recall the great kindness shown to myself, and the great
value which my intercourse with Sir George Stokes has

been to me through life. Whenever a mathematical diffi
culty occurred I used to say to myself, " Ask Stokes what

he thinks of it." I got an answer, if an answer was pos
sible ; I was told, at all events, whether it was unanswerable.
I felt that in my undergraduate days, and I feel it more now.

304  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

     When Thomson first organized a physical labora

tory it was because he found great need for physical

data as to the properties of matter. He began
with a subject to which his thermodynamic studies
had led him --the electric convection of heat, but

soon branched off into other work, the determination

of Moduluses of Elasticity and the Electrodynamic
Properties of Metals.

    Early in 1854 he sent to the Royal Society
of Edinburgh some account of his experiments
on thermo-electric currents, and another on the
mechanical theory of thermo-electric currents in
crystalline solids. To the French Academy he
sent two papers : one on the oscillations of dia-

magnetic and magnetic needles ; the other on the
effects of electric currents on unequally heated

conductors, producing in them, as he discovered
by theory, an actual conveyance of heat by the
current from one part of the conductor to the other.

A letter of his to M. Elie de Beaumont on the

effects of pressures and tensions on the thermo

electric properties of metals was also printed in
the Comptes rendus of 1854.

    Thomson's advice was sought by Clerk Maxwell,

who had just taken his degree as Second Wrangler.

                                                    TRIN. COLL., Feb. 20, 1854.

    DEAR THOMSON -- Now that I have entered the un
holy estate of bachelorhood I have begun to think of read

ing. This is very pleasant for some time among books
of acknowledged merit wh. one has not read but ought to.
But we have a strong tendency to return to physical sub
jects, and several of us here wish to attack Electricity.

vii                           THE LABORATORY                         305

     Suppose a man to have a popular knowledge of

electrical show experiments and a little antipathy to

Murphy's Electricity, how ought he to proceed in reading

and working so as to get a little insight into the subject
wh. may be of use in further reading ?

   If he wished to read Ampere, Faraday, etc., how

should they be arranged, and at what stage and in what

order might he read your articles in the Cambridge

JourInfayl o?u have in your mind any answer to the above

questions, three of us here would be content to look

upon an embodiment of it in writing as advice. . . .

     In conclusion, commend me to the Blackburns and
Mrs. Thomson. -- Yours truly,
                                                         J. C. MAXWELL.

    Mrs. Thomson's health did not improve, and so

in August Thomson wrote to Mrs. King :--

     Margaret has not advanced as I had hoped and expected

she wd. have done by this time, and it has been very dis

appointing to feel so little improvement with so much of

           I
                        I

                                                 is is,
the summer passed. She                                   however, doing somewhat

better now, and think has really advanced during the

last three weeks, certainly has suffered less. She looks much

better and in some respects much better than when you

saw her last, but she has not at all advanced in walking

power. always carry her up and down stairs, and often

from one room to another. A walk half round Miss

Graham's garden lately knocked her up for several days.

But by avoiding all such exertion she keeps tolerably

free from pain, and has much the appearance of good

health.       take her a drive nearly every day and some
     I
             I

                           a
times twice in little pony carriage.

     have had hard work on papers for the London and

Edinburgh Royal Societies lately, and now feel much
                                                         I
                                                               I
relieved.  .      . One of my papers think will interest
               .

David [Dr. King]. It to prove that the sun's heatis                      is

produced by the friction in his atmosphere occasioned

by meteoric matter whirling round him (seen, as perhaps

     VOL.  I                                                      X

306         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                CHAP.

                    as the zodiacal light), and continually
you have seen       it,
                                            a
being drawn in by his gravitation and incorporated in

his mass.

To the British Association at Liverpool he gave

also some account of these researches, and a second
paper " On the Mechanical Antecedents of Motion,

Heat, and Light," being                        contribution to the

energy-view of the universe. In this he speaks

of Joule's discovery of the mechanical equivalence
as " the greatest reform that physical science has

experienced since the days of Newton," and in

cidentally denies the nebular hypothesis of Laplace.

But he was far from the end of his labours on

the properties of matter. The following letter to

his brother deals with matters after the fifth or

sixth session of work in the laboratory --
                         2
                                                      :
                              COLLEGE, GLASGOW,
MY DEAR JAMES --       Saturday, Jany. 12, 1855.                     in

                    have been very dilatory
                    I
                        I

                                    I
                                        I

                                                            I
writing to you since heard from you last.                      would

have written from Largs, where spent the holidays,

to wish you good New Year, but was occupied all
     II

                 a
the time could get for writing with an urgent paper on

elasticity. People often ask me about you here, and
                    I

                                 a

                                                     I
                                                                 I
say that believe you are getting good deal of business,

which also seemed to be the impression of those who

heard of you otherwise. The water-wheels, too, hear

sometimes spoken of, and hope they are going to get

a name yet of practical value. Have they begun to be

profitable          hope they will sooner or later.            have
     I                                                   I
             ?
             I
been keeping experimental work going on with all the

hands can get applied, and have made out one or two

new results since the beginning of the session.                find
                                                         I
                                                                     it

very difficult, however, to make rapid progress.

vii                 THE LABORATORY                                    307

     A curious thing which has just been coming out

yesterday and to-day   is,   that the whole effect of even
                           is
a slight tension quite within elastic limits every time

     applied or removed only gradual in altering the
it

     is
                 a
electric conductivity of iron or copper wires. That                   to
                                            I

                                                              is
say, for considerable time the effect of either taking off

or putting on weights gradually increases.                            am strongly

inclined to think that there                corresponding slowness in
                       is
                                     is
                                         a
the final settlement of the elastic forces in many cases, and

possibly that there    not so near an approach to perfect

elasticity within even very narrow limits as we have been

supposing.

     Margaret joins me in best wishes for happy New
                                            I
Year to yourself and your wife, and               remain, your
                                                 a

affectionate brother,                       WILLIAM THOMSON.

    The years 1855 and 1856 were extraordinarily
fruitful. To the Philosophical Magazine he sent

some demonstrations of propositions in the theory of
magnetic force, and communication on the " Mag
netic Medium," and on the effects of compression.
The former paper was justification of Faraday's
     a
                                         a

                                             a
                                                                  is
law, that for diamagnetic bodies there a tendency
to move from places of stronger towards places of
weaker magnetic force. The later was in the form

of letter to Tyndall, whose views on diamagnetic

polarity seemed to Thomson to require correction.

Tyndall replied, contesting the necessity of Thom

son's inferences, to which Thomson rejoined re

asserting his position, but modifying the phraseology.

Thomson was also beginning his work on the theory

of the telegraph, which        is           narrated in the next

chapter.

    In April 1855 Thomson communicated to the

308        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Quarterly Journal of Mathematics an article " On

the Thermo-elastic Properties of Matter."

The state of Mrs. Thomson's health, however,

interrupted the laboratory work. She was advised

to try the curative effect of treatment at a German

spa, and accordingly a portion of the summer was

spent at Creuznach.   Thence he wrote on July 23

to Mrs. King :--

The doctor here, who I think appears to be a sensible

man, is very confident that Margaret will be well, and

...that the waters here will be most useful in promoting her
recovery.         As she is not allowed to ride, or to walk

more than a few minutes every day, I take her out in a

Bath-chair, between which, and a balcony on which she

sits a great deal reading or working, she gets a good deal

of the open air.

    This is a very dull place, and the scenery gives us
very poor compensation for our favourite Arran, which

we are losing. . . .

    Two entries in the mathematical note-book at

this time show that he was busying himself with
the problem of the origin of solar heat, and the

retardations in telegraph cables.

    This sojourn at Creuznach brought Thomson
within range of Helmholtz, then about to quit
Konigsberg for the chair of Anatomy and Physi
ology at Bonn. Thomson had in 1852 read Helm-
holtz's now famous memoir on the Conservation of
Force ; and Helmholtz, in a Konigsberg memoir,
had discussed Thomson's thermodynamic papers
of 1852. The two pioneers of physics were now

to meet face to face.

            *A*U

fi- nJwtmirtifili, -made. iVi alrmiJ:- Uie y^vir 18 5 8


vii  THE LABORATORY                       309

     [W. THOMSON to H. L. F. HELMHOLTZ.]

     SlR-- I believe you  have  CREUZNACH, BEI BINGEN,

                                      July itfh, 1855.
                                sometime since received

an official invitation to attend the meeting of the British
Association to be held at Glasgow in September. I write

now to express personally my anxious wish that you may

accept that invitation. I should consider your presence

as one of the most distinguished acquisitions the meeting
could have, and for this reason, if for no other, it would

be satisfactory to me to hear that you would attend, but

I would look forward on my own account with the greatest

pleasure to such an opportunity of making your acquaint

ance, which I have been anxious to do ever since I first
had the " Erhaltung der Kraft " in my hands. I regretted

extremely not having been at the Hull meeting, when I
heard you had been there, and I was much disappointed,

too, to lose the opportunity of seeing you when you were

so good as to call on me afterwards in Glasgow ; but I

hope that this summer I may be more fortunate. May I

ask the favour that you will let me know if you determine

to come, and allow me to arrange to have accommodation

provided for you during your stay in Glasgow ? Will you
also let me know if there is any prospect of your being in
this part of Germany before September, as I should like,

if possible, to make some plan to meet you ? I shall re

main at Creuznach for three weeks longer, after which my

plans are as yet necessarily uncertain.

     Allow me to take this opportunity of thanking you for

the papers you have been so good as to send me, each of

which I need not tell you I value very highly. -- I remain,

with much esteem, very truly yours,
                                               WILLIAM THOMSON.

     Prof. Helmholtz.

     P.S. -- If you write to me I shall be glad that you do

so in your own language, which I shall feel no difficulty

in reading, although I do not know it well enough to be

able to write it myself.

310  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

     About a week later Helmholtz journeyed to Bonn,

and thence to Creuznach. On August 6th he wrote

to Frau Helmholtz that Thomson had made a deep

impression on him.

     I expected to find the man, who is one of the first
mathematical physicists of Europe, somewhat older than

myself, and was not a little astonished when a -very
juvenile and exceedingly fair youth, who looked quite
girlish, came forward. He had taken a room for me close
by, and made me fetch my things from the hotel and put
up there. He is at Creuznach for his wife's health.
She appeared for a short time in the evening, and is a
charming and intellectual lady, but is in very bad health.

He far exceeds all the great men of science with whom I

have made personal acquaintance, in intelligence, and

lucidity, and mobility of thought, so that I felt quite

wooden beside him sometimes.

     Returning to Glasgow for the British Association
meeting on September 12th, 1855, Thomson there
communicated no fewer than six papers. These
were : On the Effects of Mechanical Strain on the
Thermo-electric Qualities of Metals ; On the Use of
Observations of Terrestrial Temperature for the
Investigation of Absolute Data in Geology ; On
new Instruments for measuring Electrical Potentials
and Capacities ; On the Electric Qualities of Mag
netized Iron ; On the Thermo-electric Position of

Aluminium ; and On Peristaltic Induction of Electric
Currents in Submarine Telegraph Wires. The ad
jective " peristaltic " he applied in a picturesque way

to denote the action in a submarine cable, whereby

any short, sharp electric impulse given to one end of

the cable in being conveyed to the other is gradually

vii                  THE LABORATORY                    311

changed in transitu into a less distinct impulse of

longer duration, a question to be discussed in the

next chapter.

     In September 1855, during the B.A. meeting at

Glasgow, Maxwell wrote Thomson a long letter

concerning the theory of electricity, which Maxwell,

judging from the fragments published, conjectured

to be lying unpublished in Thomson's desk.             It

concluded :--

     I do not know the Game laws and Patent laws of
science. Perhaps the Association may do something to

fix them, but I certainly intend to poach among your

electrical images ; and as for the hints you have dropped

about the " higher electricity," I intend to take them.

    Thomson's reply cannot be found, but Maxwell

wrote to his father that he got a long letter from
Thomson, "and he is very glad that I should poach

on his electrical preserves."

    All through the autumn of 1855 the laboratory
researches were keenly pressed on. We get a

notice of them in another letter to James Thomson.

                                  2 COLLEGE, GLASGOW,

                                                                             December 7 th, 1855.

    MY DEAR JAMES -- I have a good deal going on in

the way of experimenting by students under my direction,

and some good results obtained already this session ; one

that iron wire has its conducting power for electricity

diminished by tension. Copper wire shows the same

property, but perhaps with a difference. . . .

     I am to give the Bakerian Lecture this year in London
(R.S.) " On the Electrodynamic Properties of Metals," and
                     (the end of
at the  same time     (Faraday's  Febr17)  "  to give  a lecture at
the R.  Institution               place)      On the    Origin and

312              LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                            CHAP.

Transformation of Motive Power." If you see Dr.
                            him if he could
Andrews,   will  you ask    combustion of     give me   a?n--y   data
regarding  the   heat of                     gunpowder
                                                                Your

affectionate brother,           WILLIAM THOMSON.

   In the preceding November the Rev. J. Barlow,

Hon. Secretary of the Royal Institution, had sent

Thomson an earnest request to give one of the

Friday evening discourses which have made the

Royal Institution famous. Already Lyell, Grove,

Owen, and Hofmann had promised, besides

Faraday and Tyndall. Thomson accepted the

invitation, selecting February 29th as date. " A

thousand thanks," wrote Barlow ; " it will make

Faraday jump for joy."

                                          ROYAL INSTITUTION,
                                            January i&fA, 1856.
MY   DEAR        SIR -- It  so  rejoices  me to see your name

upon our list of Friday evenings that I cannot help but

write to congratulate, not you, but myself on the delight I

shall have. My head gets weary and dull or else I should

often trouble you with a letter, for it seems to me I could

often ask and as yet you have always answered. I do

not mean in mere form, but to my judgment and under

standing I wish I could continually sit under your wing.

I understand Tyndall has undertaken to get all pre

pared for you that we can do here, or else you know how

glad I should be to be useful. -- Ever truly yours,

                                             M. FARADAY.

Prof. W. Thomson, etc.

    To this Thomson replied :--

                                                                  2 COLLEGE, GLASGOW,
                                                              January 29, 1856.

    MY DEAR SIR -- Although I hope soon to see you in
London, I cannot delay till then thanking you for your

vii                  THE LABORATORY                   313

letter of the 18th, and for the very kind expressions it

contains. Such expressions, from you, would be more than

a sufficient reward for anything I could ever contemplate
doing in science. I feel strongly how little I have done to

deserve them, but they will encourage me with a stronger
motive than I have ever had before, to go on endeavour

ing to see in the direction you have pointed, which I long

ago learned to believe is the direction in which we must

look for a deeper insight into nature.

    I cannot express to you how much I fall short of de

serving what you     say, but  must simply    ytohuanhkavyeoduonem. o--st
sincerely for your   kindness  in writing as

Believe me, ever yours truly,  WILLIAM THOMSON.

     Prof. Faraday.

    As the day drew near Thomson sent to Tyndall
a list of fifteen experiments he proposed to show,
and was answered by Tyndall as follows :--

                               lydROYAL INSTITUTION,
                               Saturday,      February 1856.
     MY DEAR SIR -- Up to the present moment I have

been unable to write a word in reply to your last note.

On Thursday I have a lecture and shall be very busy ;

but on Friday I am quite at your service. We shall have

a long day to prepare, and from the nature of the experi

ments I infer we shall be able to make all arrangements

comfortably and efficiently. We have a very beautiful

means of showing the heat of congelation, which I will

have prepared on Thursday so that it shall be cool on

Friday. The subject, so far as I can see, is an extremely

promising one ; but remember you have only an hour at

your disposal, and if you made all the experiments on your

list it would be at the rate of an experiment every four

minutes. Would this afford you sufficient time for ex
Ifplanation ?
               out of the fifteen you were to choose ten,

these ten would afford so many resting-places to the

general mass of the audience, and would at the same

time allow you a tolerable freedom of explanation. With

314          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                 CHAP.

regard to the experiment on the effect of induced currents,

I devised the following means of estimating the compara

tive conductivities of bismuth and copper some time ago.

A cube of each metal was taken and suspended from a

twisted string, above the cube and attached to it by a

copper wire was a small pyramid, with the base horizontal

and its four sides formed by four little triangular pieces of

looking-glass. The mirrors rotated with the cube, and

the latter was, of course, placed between the poles of an

electro-magnet. A beam of light was thrown upon the
mirror, and as it went round -- slowly at first -- the images

reflected from its sides followed each other in a circle of

about 30 feet in diameter. As the motion quickened the
patches of light blended themselves into a continuous line

On closing   --thyeoucrircouwitn  with the copper the                                    effect   was
astonishing                       term best describes                                      the   cube
     if

                                   it

                                   if

                                                                                is
                                                                                    a it,
was " struck dead." The idea                     of the top                                beautiful
      inyotuhecaanborveaelisfeorm.---- Venroyt,
one                                              we can have the experi
ment
                                                 sincerely yours,

                                                 JOHN TYNDALL.

The discourse was duly pronounced. The notes

prepared for contain various matters not found
                 it it
in the report published in vol.                  : ii.  of the Royal
                        is
Institution Proceedings, or in the reprint. The
                            I
prologue, in the drafting of which Mrs. Thomson

helped her husband, was as follows --

An audience assembled in this place has such frequent oppor

tunities of profiting by the rare faculty of conveying the profoundest

views in the clearest manner, that any one who does not possess

that faculty must feel that in the position now occupy he has
                                                 I

no easy task before him.          must simply beg for your patience

and indulgence, trusting that although accustomed to have the

most abstract points of philosophy brought before you, so

illuminated that no darkness can be felt, you will nevertheless

remember that scientific explanations may be characterized by

dulness, and that  not unusual for lecturer to fail in that
                                                 Ia

                                                         I
clearness which might consist with the most profound and

philosophical treatment of the subject.          fear must commence

vii  THE LABORATORY                   315

by committing the first fault I have mentioned, while I explain

some terms and general principles    which perhaps require no

explanation. If I avoid the second,  I shall succeed better than
I venture to anticipate.

     Joule's researches, with experiments and numeri

cal demonstrations, occupied the chief place in the

discourse ; and then followed some considerations

as to the economy of transformation.  In the

galvanic engine, where the transformation of energy

was not thermal, the equivalent of work done might

be 75 per cent or higher. Intensification of heat

was impossible, but a portion of the heat might be

intensified if the remainder were reduced to a lower

intensity by a wider diffusion. What was the

mechanical value of cold -- for example of ice ?

Nothing, in winter ; but in summer, with thermo

meter at 92°, the mechanical value of 1 Ib. of ice is

15800 foot-pounds, equal to 1 horse-power for half
a minute. An engine burning say 4 Ibs. coal per

horse-power per hour might make 60 Ibs. of ice ; or

1 ton ice for 60 Ibs. coal. Ice might be taken at

1d. per Ib., or say ^5 a ton. Either ice is too dear,
and ought to be made by steam-power ; or so cheap

that it may be used instead of coals for steam-

engines and general heating purposes ; or the

present system is the best, and ice is cheaper

gathered and kept, than made, but not yet so cheaply

as to supersede coals. But the time might come

when the only way of heating that will be available

will be founded on some such process of intensifica

tion. The electrical transformation of energy claimed

attention, with the query whether all light, and all

316  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

heat was not electric in its nature. Animal power

--the energy of organic life --was probably electric,
not thermodynamic. The sources available to man

for the production of mechanical effect were examined
and traced to the sun's heat and the rotation of the

earth round its axis. Published speculations were
then referred to, by which it is shown that the
motions of the earth and of the heavenly bodies,
and the heat of the sun, may all be due to gravita
tion ; or, that the potential energy of gravitation
may be in reality the ultimate created antecedent of
all motion, heat, and light at present existing in the
universe. The peroration was brief.

    The opening of a bud, the growth of a leaf, the astonishing
development of beauty in a flower, involve physical operations
which completed chemical science would leave as far beyond our
comprehension as now the differences between lead and iron,
between water and carbonic acid, between gravitation and
magnetism, are at present A tree contains more mystery of
creative power than the sun, from which all its mechanical
energy is borrowed. An earth without life, a sun, and countless
stars, contain less wonder than that grain of mignonette.

    No record has been found as to the success of

the lecture ; of its great originality there can be no
question. He had previously published before the
Edinburgh Royal Society in April 1854, and the

British Association in September 1854, speculations

that occupied the conclusion of the lecture, to the

effect that the potential energy of gravitation may
be the ultimate antecedent of the motions of the
earth and of the heavenly bodies, and of the heat of

the sun, and therefore of all heat and light and other

sources of power available to man.

vii  THE LABORATORY  317

    The Bakerian Lecture is the distinctive title

awarded by the Royal Society each year to some
original paper of particular merit in the group of
physical sciences. Thomson's Bakerian Lecture of
February 28, 1856, printed in the Philosophical Trans

actions, vol. cxlvi., is a remarkable memoir extend
ing over 1 02 pages. By the title " Electrodynamic
Qualities of Metals," he wished to connote all pro
perties, such as electric and thermal conductivity,

magnetic permeability, retentivity, and thermo
electric rank, together with their variations with
temperature change or stress. Starting from the
dynamical theory of heat, and applying Carnot's prin
ciple to the phenomena of thermo-electricity, he had

discovered the unequal thermal effects produced in

unequally heated metals by currents passing through

them from hot to cold, and from cold to hot. He thus

announced the reversible thermal effect of electric

currents in which there is a convection of heat, which

in the case of the metal iron he found by experiment

 to be in a direction opposite to that conventionally
assigned to the positive flow of current, whereas
in copper the convection is in the same sense

 as the positive flow.1 This investigation had
 lasted from 1851 to the end of 1855, and the

 experimental appliances and operations were de

scribed in great detail. The second part of the
 memoir related to Thermo-electric Inversion, and

 was directed to elucidate a phenomenon discovered
     1 Another statement of the " Thomson effect " is : An electric current

 passing in an iron bar or wire from a hot to a cold part produces a cooling,
 but in copper a heating, effect.

318  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

by Gumming that the current generated by heating
the junction of certain thermo-electric pairs, such as
iron and zinc, the current at first goes from zinc to

iron, and, as the temperature is raised, ceases and

then passes in the inverse direction from iron to
zinc. The neutral temperatures for various pairs of
metals were determined, and a diagram of thermo
electric powers plotted. The third part was on the
Effects of Mechanical Strain and of Magnetization
on the Thermo-electric Qualities. Metal wires sub
jected to tension showed a change of properties,

stretched copper acting as thermo-electrically positive

towards unstretched copper ; but in iron the reverse

was the case. But iron that has been hardened by
stretching and then left to itself is thermo-electrically

positive with respect to soft iron ; also, unmagnetized

iron is positive towards magnetized iron if the

magnetization is longitudinal, but transversely mag
netized iron is positive towards longitudinally

magnetized iron. All these effects were investi

gated and proved with a wealth of patience and
ingenuity that are notable. The fourth part on
Methods for Comparing and Determining Galvanic
Resistances is remarkable, in that, in the attempt to

investigate the relative conductivities in a magnetized
sheet of iron, Thomson was led to an independent
rediscovery of the principle of the device familiar as
" Wheatstone's bridge " (discovered by Christie, see
Bakerian Lecture for 1843), in which the proportional

resistance between the branches of a divided circuit
is utilised. The arrangement now known as the

vii  THE LABORATORY  319

Thomson double-bridge, for testing small resist

ances, appears to have its origin here. Part five
dealt with the Effect of Magnetization on Electric
Conductivity, and again a host of ingenious labora-
tary devices are described. The result deduced

was that the conductivity of iron is increased by
magnetic force acting across the lines of current.
Thus ended for the time this great research.
But an addition was made in 1857, extending the
results to nickel. And again in 1875, when the

resources of a new physical laboratory were avail
able, parts six and seven were added, ending with
an account in 1878 of the effects of stress on the
magnetization of iron, nickel, and cobalt. In Thom
son's reprint (1884) of his Mathematical and Physical
Papers this classical research occupied more than
half of the second volume.

    As if this were not enough, Thomson gave that

spring to the Royal Society two more papers. One
of these was his scarcely less notable " Elements of
a Mathematical Theory of Elasticity," which was

awarded a place in the Philosophical Transactions,

vol. cxlvi., and has become the foundation for all that

has since been written on the subject. It lays the

theory upon the basis of the proposition, that when any
portion of elastic matter is subjected to a stress, there
results a strain ; the energy expended in the opera
tion being the product of the stress into the strain.

    The other paper proposed a dynamic explanation
of Faraday's discovery of the rotation of the plane
of polarization of light by the magnet.

320  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

    When May brought an end to the session of

1855-6, the state of Mrs. Thomson's health prompted

·····a return to the baths of Germany. A letter to his

brother contains several points of interest.

                                             CREUZNACH, July 2, 1856.

                      ·

    MY DEAR JAMES -- Before we set out for Germany I

spent ten days with Joule, and got through some very
interesting experiments along with him. Among other
things (illustrating the fact, which we had long suspected
from other experiments, that a solid against which air is
very rapidly flowing always takes a higher temperature than
the air), we found that thermometers and thermo-electric
junctions, when whirled through the air at from 80-120
feet per second, showed very sensibly higher tempera
ture than when whirled slowly, so as to show simply the
temperature of the air. We have found that air forced
through small circular apertures follows a very curious
law of discharge, according to which the velocity in the
aperture, calculated as if the air there were at the same
density as on the high-pressure side, has a maximum
value of about 550 feet per second, when the high
pressure is about 50 inches of mercury above the atmo
spheric pressures. Either less or greater pressures give
less rapid discharge, estimated in bulk on the high

pressure side.

    I have become acquainted with a Mr. Dellmann here

who is " Oberlehrer " in the gymnasium, and has besides
charge of meteorological, but especially electrical observa
tions for the Prussian Government. I have seen his
mode of observation of atmospheric electricity, which is
very simple. . . . There is almost always an effect of one
kind (indicating a negative electrification of the earth's
surface), but when the sky is much overcast, little or none.
Detached clouds often alter the quality of effect quickly,

and give a great amount of reverse effect, and the first
drops of a shower generally do so. When I was with

vii                        THE LABORATORY                  321

Joule we sent up a kite nearly £ of a mile with a thin
iron wire instead of cord from the roof of the house. In

an overcast day we got no effect sensible to the knuckles,

but on another day with blue sky slightly clouded, we got

sparks from ^ to ^         inch long which gave         me a shock
sensible down to the                                    electrometer
                           ankles. I am having an

of Mr. Dellmann's construction, which, I think, is the best

yet brought into use, made here to take with me.

    It is likely we shall only be a week more here, and

then go on to Schwalbach for chalybeate waters, from

which a strengthening effect is expected. Margaret is

feeling somewhat better and is thought to have made

very decided improvement, or else she would not be

allowed to try iron waters. . . .
                                               WILLIAM THOMSON.

     From Schwalbach Thomson wrote to Helm-
holtz :--
                SIR -- I   have   SCHWALBACH, July 30, 1856.
    MY DEAR
                                 delayed so long to write in

reply to your kind letter of the 18th of last month,1

because I have been hitherto in much uncertainty as to

our plans even now. After we are come to this place,

it is still uncertain how long we shall have to stay, but

I see that our homeward journey must be so late that we

shall be anxious to make it in the shortest possible time,

even what would perhaps be hoping too much from
II

            a if,
                       it
chalybeate waters to expect, my wife would be feeling

well enough to undertake any digressions from the way.

    should be very sorry, however, to leave Germany
without having had any opportunity of seeing you, and

     therefore intend to take run down to Bonn and
                                 a

spend day there some time either next week or the week

after.

    My wife did not make any decided improvement

during our stay at Creuznach, but in the first few days

        This letter announced to Thomson the research1  on combination-tones,
and the discovery of the possibility of the production  of objective difference-
tones.       I
                                                        Y
    VOL.

322       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                       CHAP.

after coming to this place she seemed to gain consider
ably. We have had only a week's experience of the

Schwalbach waters, and we can only judge that they are
not going to disagree with her. The doctors say that if

they do not disagree they are sure to do good, but we
have learned to be very sceptical of all " Kurs," and to
have very moderate expectations from a few days of

improvement. I have only confidence in time.

     I shall have many questions to ask you regarding the
agency of iron in conveying oxygen to the fire in the
animal system, and the quantity and circulation of blood

in the human body.

    I ought to have thanked you sooner for all the trouble

you have taken to procure a wire of measured galvanic

resistance for me. Last spring I received a conductor
which about four years before I had sent to Germany by

a friend, and which was returned with a memorandum of

its resistance as determined by Weber, if I remember

right, one day of last August The despatch of that wire

for me may have been considered as an answer to your
letters, and I should certainly have written to you when I
received it if I had guessed that it had any relation to
the application you kindly made on my behalf. I have
already made use of it to investigate the electromotive
force of a cell of Daniell's, with a view to various electro-

dynamic applications.    her regards, and I remain, yours
     Mrs. Thomson sends             WILLIAM THOMSON.

very truly,

                                      SCHWALBACH, A ugust 6, 1856.

MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I intend to set out to-morrow

morning, and go down the Rhine by a steamer leaving

Eltville about 10 o'clock, and arriving at Bonn at 4^ P.M.
Do not think on giving up any plan you may have made

for an excursion on my account, because I should certainly

find you on Friday morning when you will have your

lecture.   I shall remain at Bonn over Friday, and  return
here on
          Saturday. --(In haste) yours very truly,
                         WILLIAM THOMSON.

VII            THE LABORATORY                                                               323

    Thomson went to Bonn as planned ; and a fort
night later Helmholtz returned the visit.

                                                         ElNHORN,      SCIIH,WA18LB56A.CH,
                                                               August
     MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I find there is no post
carriage between this and St Goarshausen, but only a

communication by an omnibus and a post carriage on a

cross road which would probably not be convenient.

     The omnibus leaves Eltville at 6, or somewhat later,

\professedly on the arrival of the steamer from Cologne,
but when I arrived there about                           of an hour late I

found it had just left, having waited for the Cologne and

Dusseldorf steamer, but not for the Niederlander which

ought to have arrived at the same time.                                I set out

immediately and walked to Schwalbach, taking about

three hours to do it You would probably prefer coming

by Bieberich,  which is   "abfoaurtthe^r  h. higher up the Rhine,
and about a     " Stunde                   from Schwalbach than

Eltville. The omnibus leaves Bieberich at 10 o'cl. in the

mornings and arrives here about 1 P.M.

    If I do not hear otherwise from you I shall expect

you by it on Thursday or Friday, and you will come with

me and dine at the table d'hote, for which you will arrive

just in time.

the Boetghgeringladtioesb.--e rIemreemmabine,reydourtos  Mrs.  Helmholtz  and               to
                                                         very  truly,

                                                         WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Helmholtz left for Schwalbach on September 15.
He wrote to his father that he was going there " in
order to meet Professor Thomson from Glasgow,
whom I visited last year in Creuznach, and who

has principally concerned himself with the Theory
of the Conservation of Energy in England. He is
certainly one of the first mathematical physicists of
the day, with powers of rapid invention such as I

324          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN       CHAP. v»

have seen in no other man." He spent with

Thomson one day making experiments with the
siren, and the next morning renewed the work, with

fresh experiments, on combination-tones, that had

occurred to Thomson during the night.

Thomson did not return to England in time for

the British Association meeting at Cheltenham, but

sent a paper on Dellmann's method of observing

atmospheric electricity.

    His attention now began to be absorbed in the

problems of submarine telegraphy, as narrated in

the next chapter, and towards the end of the year

he sent two papers to the Royal Society on rapid

signalling.  He spent the new year of 1857 at

Belfast, then returned to the laboratory to his in

vestigation of the electric conductivity of copper.

   A pleasing touch is to be found in the Letters of

Dr. John Brown (author of Rab and his Friends),

Thackeray in November 1856 was making his
second lecturing tour, discoursing on the Four

Georges. When in Edinburgh he made his home
with Dr. Brown. In Glasgow he met Thomson,
whom he visited at his house, No. 2 The College,
dining twice with him. After the third lecture

Dr. Brown wrote to Miss Jessie Crum (youngest
sister of Mrs. Thomson) : " I knew Thackeray
would go to your heart. . . . He was delighted

with your William Thomson ; he said he was an

angel and better,   and must have wings under his
flannel waistcoat.   I said he had, for I had seen
them ! "

                CHAPTER VIII

             THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH : FAILURE

HITHERTO Thomson's work had been mainly in
pure science, mathematics, the flow and transforma
tions of heat, the mathematical theory of electric
equilibrium, the mathematical theory of magnetism,
hydrodynamics, and the dynamical problems of
bodies in revolution. But in the middle of the
'fifties, while he was still immersed in thermodynamic
studies and wrestling in his laboratory with the pro
perties of matter, events were progressing which
drew him with irresistible force towards the practical
applications of science which made him famous.

    Half a century earlier Volta had startled the
world with his discovery of the " pile," the primitive
battery capable of producing a steady and continu
ous silent flow of electricity through the conducting
wire which constituted a circuit. Oersted had dis
covered the power of the current to deflect a
compass-needle. Ampere and Arago had investi

gated further the magnetic relations thus revealed.
Sturgeon had invented the soft-iron electromagnet

-- the magnet which is controlled from a distance

through the electric wire that conveys the current to

                                                                             325

326  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

it-- the magnet which attracts only when the circuit
is completed, and, obedient to the hand of the dis

tant operator, ceases to attract from the moment
when the circuit is broken. Faraday had laid the
foundations for the future development of electrical
engineering by his discoveries of the electro

magnetic rotations --in the first primitive revolving

motors of his design, and of the induction of cur

rents from the motion of magnets --the principle by

which the dynamo generates currents mechanically.

The first-fruits of all this scientific activity for the
purposes of human industry had been the electric
telegraph. Men had long thought and speculated
on the possibility of transmitting intelligence by
signals through an electric wire. The flood of dis

covery showed how such possibilities might become

realities. Electric telegraphy was in the air. The
year 1837 saw the telegraph of Cooke and Wheat-
stone in commercial operation in England, while in
America the telegraph of Morse was at work by
1840. The former depended upon the deflexion of
a magnetized needle by the influence of the current
circulating in a small surrounding coil of wire ; the
latter was based upon the attraction of an iron

keeper by an electromagnet, thereby moving a lever
which printed dots and dashes, or gave audible
sounds in its movement. Land lines, for the trans

mission of signals thus spelled out, were soon
erected in both continents ; and, as experience led

to practical improvements, the distances to which

telegraphic messages could be sent were extended

viu THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 327

over hundreds of miles. By the year 1850 overland
telegraphy had become a prosperous business, and

was rapidly extending. Just at the appropriate
moment, too, the discovery of gutta-percha put into
the hands of the engineers a material far more fit
than any previously known --indiarubber, bitumen,
or tarred hemp --to serve as the insulating coating

to prevent the electric current from leaking away
from the copper wire conductor. Already, in 1849,
short lengths of submarine cables had been laid ;
and in 1851 the successful Dover-Calais line was
laid by Crampton, followed by others, connecting
England with Ireland, Scotland, Holland, and other
countries. In 1856 Newfoundland was joined to
Cape Breton, and thence overland to New York.
But all these were short lengths compared with
the two thousand miles which separated Great
Britain from the American Continent, the spanning
of which stirred the hopes and ambitions of tele
graph engineers, and stimulated the project of an
Atlantic cable.

    Confronting such a project were great difficulties.
The weight and cost of such a cable were enormous.
There was much dispute as to whether the cable
should be protected by an external armouring of
iron wires or not. The manufacture required new
machinery and the creation of a new class of oper
atives. The laying of such a cable across an ocean
known to be three miles deep presented an engineer
ing problem of the first magnitude. No single ship
existed of sufficient size to hold the cable if it were

328 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

constructed. But above all these difficulties there
supervened an electrical objection of a very dis
couraging kind. The working speed of signalling
through cables of such a length was believed to be
very slow. Faraday had predicted the existence of
a retardation of the signals in long cables, a retarda
tion arising from the charging of the surface of the
gutta-percha coating by the current on its way to the
distant end. The Anglo- Dutch cable of 1 10 miles,
the longest then laid, showed this defect slightly.
Even the subterranean telegraph wires from London
to Manchester were embarrassed by it. What

retardation might be expected from a cable 2000
miles long ? Would it not so greatly reduce the
speed of signalling as to make the undertaking
unremunerative ? Several electricians had made
experiments on lengths of underground cable to
investigate the matter, but the results were not

decisive.

    Thomson's handling of Fourier's mathematics in
the problems of the flow of heat through solids had
led him from the first to perceive that the diffusion
of an electric current through a conducting wire,
though immensely quicker, obeyed the same laws
and was amenable to similar calculations. In 1854,
when his attention had been directed to the problems
of submarine telegraphy by the experiments of Mr.
Latimer Clark on retardation in the Anglo-Dutch
cables, and by Faraday's investigation of the
same, he began new calculations. These he com
municated to Stokes in two letters, the substance

VIM THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 329

of which was subsequently given l to the Royal
Society in a paper " On the Theory of the Electric

Telegraph."
    In this very important paper he showed that in

cable signalling there is no regular or definite
velocity of transmission, but that a signal which is
sent off as a short, sharp, sudden impulse, in being

transmitted to greater and greater distances is

changed in character, smoothed out into a longer-

lasting impulse, which rises gradually to a maximum
and then gradually dies away. Even though at the

distant station the commencement of the signal may

be practically instantaneous, an appreciable time

may elapse for the retarded impulse to reach its

maximum ; and so the signal is for effective pur

poses retarded. Thomson showed now for the first

time the law governing such retardation : that it
varied in direct proportion with the " capacity " and
with the " resistance " of the cable. As each of

these quantities            is,                         in a cable of given type of con
                                a
struction, proportional to its length, followed that
                                                        It
the retardation would be proportional to the square
Ifof the distance.                                           a
                                                        cable 200 miles long showed  if a
                                                               it
retardation of -j^th second, one 2000 miles long,

of similar thickness, would have retardation 100

times as great, or 10 seconds.                          became immensely

important, therefore,2 to know how to combat this

      Proc. Soy. Soc. vii.                              382, May 1855, and Math, and Phys. Papers,
    21
vol.    ii.
                 6
                                                    p.
      p. 1.
      Thomson emphasized this in his B.A. Paper of 1855 (see p. 310) on
peristaltic induction, by reference to the shorter cable between Varna and

"Balaclava, urging experiments to be used hereafter for estimating the proper
dimensions for future long cables.                      Immense economy," he concluded,

330         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                      CHAP.

effect. By increasing the thickness of the copper the
" resistance " could be reduced. By increasing the
thickness of the gutta-percha coating the " capacity"
could be reduced. Or, by increasing the diameter
of the wire and of the gutta-percha coating in pro
portion to the length of the cable, the retardation of
the long cable could be kept the same as that of the
short one. This "law of squares" discovered by

Thomson did not pass unchallenged ; neither were
his practical deductions accepted at once. Mr. O.
 E. Wildman Whitehouse, a retired medical man,

who had taken up electrical studies, and was inter
esting himself in cable projects, read to the British
Association meetings in 1855 at Glasgow, and in
 1856 at Cheltenham, papers in which he professed
to disprove by experiments 1 the doctrine of squares,
declaring that, if it was true, signalling through long
cables would be quite impracticable. Thomson was

not present, being in Germany with his wife ; but
the matter being reported in The Athenceum of

August 3Oth, 1856, he addressed to that journal,
on September 24th, from the Isle of Arran, a letter
which appeared on October 4th. Whitehouse had
objected to Thomson's warning, based on the theory
which he had worked out, that in a cable of this

"may be practised in attending to these indications of theory in all sub
marine cables constructed in future for short distances ; and the non-failure

of great undertakings can alone be ensured by using them in a preliminary

estimate."

1 Whitehouse's paper was issued as a pamphlet in 1855. Articles by
Whitehouse on his experiments and instruments were also published in the
                                                    1857. In Lord                   of
Engineer     of Sept. 26, 1856, and  --Jan".Th2e3,  best account of  Kelvin's copy  in
the last    named he has written:                                    what is good

Whitehouse's experiments and instruments. The conclusions, however, are

fallacious in almost every point."

vin THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 331

length it might be necessary to provide more than
ordinary lateral dimensions of copper wire or of
insulating coating, if sufficient rapidity of signalling
were to be attained. Thomson now wrote to say

that Whitehouse's experimental results, if rightly
interpreted, were consistent with the true theory --

adding that he came to this conclusion from "a know
ledge of the theory itself, which, like every Theory,
is merely a combination of established truths." He
pointed out that Whitehouse's observations, as re

ported, did not show at what speed such a succes
sion of signals as is required for the letters of a

word can be sent through the greatest length of
wire which he used ; and that experiments of a more
practical kind were required to show at what rate
the irregular non-periodic alternations of currents

required to spell out words may be reproduced at the
distant end of a long cable. Whitehouse replied

somewhat testily, reasserting his statements as to
the retardations he had observed, though these were
in reality due in part to his particular mode of using
the current, and in part to the sluggishness of his
own heavy instruments. Thomson returned to the
matter in a second letter in The Athenaum of

November 1st. Courteously admitting the accuracy
of the observations of Whitehouse, he pointed out
that if instead of the operations therein used, certain

definitely specified electrical operations in signalling
(such as the application of the electromotive force
of a powerful battery for one-twentieth of a second)
had been employed, and the retardations observed in

332  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

cables of various lengths from 1 50 to 2400 miles, the
law of squares would have been almost exactly ful
filled. He therefore concluded that the receiving in
struments used by Mr. Whitehouse had, by reason of
the sluggishness of their own electromagnetic action
and inertia, masked the result He also noted that

since in some of Whitehouse's tests the battery

current was applied for a whole second at a time, the
inconstancy of the battery itself would influence the

phenomena. He insisted on the need, in a strict
test, of a constant battery (such as Daniell's), and of
short sharp sending at the battery end of the cable.
Then turning to the question of the dimensions of

conductor and insulation, he reiterated his prefer
ence for a thick copper wire, or one made thick by
stranding together a number of small wires; pointing
out that Whitehouse's test, in which three thin

separately insulated wires were used, furnished no
disproof of his calculations.

     In November 1856 Thomson communicated to
the Royal Society a paper " On Practical Methods
for Rapid Signalling by the Electric Telegraph,"

followed by another on December nth. Here he

explained a proposed system likely to give nearly
the same rapidity of utterance by a submarine one-
wire cable of ordinary lateral dimensions, between
 Ireland and Newfoundland, as is attained on short
submarine or land lines. The plan of signalling was

 to employ a regulated galvanic battery to impart
during a limited time a definite transient rise of
potential ; the end of the cable being immediately put

vm THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 333

to "earth." Guided by Fourier's theorems of the
conduction of heat, he proposed to regulate the time
of contact with the battery so that the coefficient of
the simple -harmonic term, in the Fourier -series
which expresses the distribution of electric potential,

shall vanish --resulting in the retarding electrifica

tion of the coating of the cable being discharged
four times as fast as would be the case for an
ordinary electrification. For receiving the message
he proposed a form of Helmholtz's galvanometer, in
which the suspended magnet is provided with a

copper damper, adjusted so that during the recep
tion of an electric pulse the magnet would turn to
its position of maximum deflexion, and fall back to
rest. Adopting the " subjective " method of obser
vation, the observer will watch through a telescope
the image of a scale reflected from the polished side
of the magnet, or from a small mirror carried by
" and will note the letter or number which each

maximum deflexion brings into the middle of his
field of view." This method was soon abandoned.

    The plan of letter signals first suggested was to
inscribe on the scale of the instrument the 26 letters
of the alphabet, and to arrange 13 positive and 13
negative strengths of current, such as to give de
flexions that would bring one or other of the letters
into the observer's field of view. But he foresaw

that this might be impracticable, and assuming that
only or different strengths of current might be
available in practice, he suggested combinations of
two or three signals for each letter, assigning the
3

          4
                                                                                    it,

334  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

simplest combinations to the most frequently used

letters.

    He also suggested the possibility of a plan for
rapid self- recording of signals by an apparatus,
the description of which he reserved for a future

time.

    In the second communication he suggested a

modification of the plan of sending, attaining greater
rapidity by use of the third harmonic term ; being a
foreshadowing of the plan of curb-signalling by
which, after the application of the battery, the cable

is momentarily connected to a reversed electro

motive force before being put to earth. He added

an ingenious device suitable for rapid signalling
on short lines, by introduction of electro-chemical

relays.

    The galvanometer was strongly on his mind, for

he saw that the heavy electromagnetic relays pro

posed by Whitehouse introduced retardations of
their own. In an enterprise involving so great a
capital expenditure as an Atlantic cable, the earning
power depended mainly on the attainable rapidity of

signalling. A light, quick-moving instrument that

would give instantaneous response at the distant

end was a prime desideratum ; and, if it would

work with minute currents, the delays in the cable

itself (due to the accumulating electric charges in
transit) would be reduced, thus further augmenting
the speed. Accordingly he looked around for suit

able instrumental aids, as the following letter to

Helmholtz shows :--

vin THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 335

                                 FORTBREDA, BELFAST, Dec. 3OtA, 1856.

MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I have been long wishing

to write to you regarding your galvanometer, but have

been prevented by pressure of business that would not

bear delay.

Could you give me any idea of the dimensions of the

two sizes of wire referred to in the enclosed letter from

Siemens and Halske, and of the sensibility of the galvano

meter with one or the other ? For instance, what are the

lengths of wire in the coils of the galvanometer in the two

cases ? What is the diameter of each copper wire, or the

weight of copper per metre of length ? How many turns
of wire are there on each coil of the galvanometer with

one wire and with the other ? What are the dimensions

of the coils themselves, and what their distances from the

centre of the suspended magnet ? Do you know the

amount  foofrcede--fletchtiaotn   produced by any  particular electro
motive                           of a single cell  of Daniell's, for

instance, or any submultiple of that of a single cell of

Daniell's, or a copper and bismuth thermo-electric element

with stated temperatures, or two plates of copper, one
dipped in a solution of sulphate of copper and the other

in a porous cell immersed in the same, and containing

sulphuric acid ? . . .

     Can the instrument be made so that different coils can

be substituted for one another upon it? If making the

coils removable would introduce any inconvenience or

defect I would rather have them fixed, as I believe they

are in your instrument. But in this case I should

probably want two instruments, as I shall certainly wish

to have coils of small resistance for thermo-electric mea

surements, and I shall probably wish to have an instru

ment giving indications with very small absolute strengths

of current to test a plan for telegraphing through great
lengths of submarine wire which I have proposed.

The Atlantic Telegraph is now in the process of

manufacture, 2500 miles of cable are to be finished and
ready to go to sea by the end of May (the distance

336  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                 CHAP.

between Valencia in Ireland and Trinity Bay near St.
John's being only 1900 miles), and if no accident
happens electric messages will be passing between Ireland

and Newfoundland before July. I have been appointed

one of the directors, and what I feel most anxious about

now is the laying of the cable. The plans must be better

arranged than they have been in all such operations

hitherto, in which there have been almost as many failures

as successes. However, the circumstances are in some

respects more favourable than they have been in former
cases. We have a soft level bottom (consisting of fine

sand and microscopic shells) the whole way across,
nowhere more than 3^ miles deep, which will be much
better than the Alpine precipices and valleys below the
waters of the Mediterranean. The cable is much lighter

than any hitherto laid, weighing only 1 8 X 112 Ibs. per
mile, or in water only 1 o X 1 1 2. The practical men

engaged have all the experience of previous failures, and
it is to be hoped have learned some of the causes and
will know to avoid them. Altogether, I think there is a
good chance of success.

    I have been very much occupied since our return from

Germany, chiefly bringing out a paper a on " Mathematical

Theory of Elasticity," and a long paper describing those
electrical experiments I have spoken to you about, through

the press.

     I have worked a good deal, too, at the solution of
problems (exactly like those of Fourier) regarding the
propagation of electricity through submarine wires. It

is the most beautiful subject possible for mathematical
analysis. No unsatisfactory approximations are required;

and every practical detail, such as imperfect insulation,

resistance in the exciting and receiving instruments, differ
ences between the insulating power of gutta-percha and
the coating of tow and pitch round mutual influence of
     1

                            is
                                  it,

                                                     is
the different conductors (when, as  not the case of the

Atlantic cable, more than one distinct conductor         used),

     See p. 319, above.

vin        THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH                                                 337

attempts to send messages in both directions at the same

time, gives a new problem with some interesting mathe

matical peculiarity.
     I am here for a few days of " Christmas holidays," and

I return to Largs (in Scotland) to-morrow, where I left
my wife. She is, on the whole, much better than last

winter, but is still much of an invalid. I hope, however,

that she is really advancing to a complete recovery of health.

     I must be at my post in Glasgow on Monday next, so
if you write address me No. 2, College, Glasgow. Will

you at the same time enclose Siemens and Halske's letter ?

The price they mention is much more, I think, than you

told me (45 Th., I believe) they had charged for the
instrument. I think they ought not to charge more, or

not so much more, as they have drawings and other

facilities in making a fourth and fifth specimen of the

instrument, which should make it less expensive to them

than the first.

     Give  my respects  to Mrs. Helmholtz, and believe me,
           very truly,
--Yours                                  WILLIAM THOMSON.

     P.S. -- When will your book on the eye be completed,

or is it so already ? I find people greatly interested in
                                       a
especially regarding the adjustments.
                                                                    it,
       was out with shooting party few days ago at
I
     Ia

                      a

                         Ia
Largs, and looked into the eyes of various birds imme

diately after death.           saw the three images of the sun

well in woodcock's eye, but was puzzled by the position

of the image by reflection at the posterior surface of the

lens.      had very curious view of the interior by simply

pressing my eyeglass on the front of the cornea so as to
                                               It
nearly flatten it. Have you seen an owl's eye  ?

                                                           is
                                                                  a

splendid thing.  cut one open, but learned nothing more
                 I

                           is
than that the cornea very tough.

    This letter shows that events had been moving
rapidly towards the great enterprise of the Atlantic
Cable. Before the end of the year the project took

definite shape.
    VOL.
       1

                                                                               z

338  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

    Certain concessions having been obtained in
Newfoundland, and arrangements having been made
with the British and United States Governments for

aid, in the form of ships, to assist in the laying, and
of guarantees of subsidies for the working of the
proposed cable, an association was formed on
October 20, 1856, called The Atlantic Telegraph
Company. The active promoters of the enterprise
were Mr. Jacob Brett, Mr. (afterwards Sir) Charles
Bright, Mr. Cyrus Field of New York, and with
them Mr. O. E. W. Whitehouse. The flotation
of this company was remarkable. No prospectus

was issued, no promotion money paid ; there was no

advertising, nor any commissions to brokers ; the

directors were elected by the shareholders after

allotment ; and the promoters were to receive no
remuneration until the shareholders' profits should

reach 10 per cent per annum. The capital was
^350,000, in shares of ^1000 each, of which less
than one-twelfth was subscribed in America. Many
of the subscribers were shareholders in the earlier

telegraph companies ; but many outsiders, parlia
mentarians, lawyers, and literary men, including

Thackeray, subscribed for shares. Of the 18

directors elected in December 1856, 7 were from
London, 6 from Liverpool, 2 from Manchester,

and 2 from Glasgow, including Professor William
Thomson.

     Often as the story of the Atlantic Cable has
been told, the precise part which Thomson played
in the enterprise has never been fully stated. The

vin  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  339

work which he undertook for it was enormous ; the
sacrifices he made for it were great. The pecuniary
reward was ridiculously small. The actual position
which he held was relatively subordinate, and must
have been at times galling. Yet he bore himself

throughout with the most unswerving courtesy and
delicacy of feeling. Never was more conspicuous

that "laborious humility" which fifty years after
wards was noted by Lord Rosebery as the keynote
of his career. Thomson joined the enterprise
simply as a director, selected by the suffrages of
the Scottish shareholders. He held no technical

position.

    The board appointed Bright as engineer-in-chief,
Whitehouse as electrician, and Cyrus Field general
manager. This staff had no sooner entered on its
work than it discovered that the provisional com

mittee which registered the company had, in its

anxiety to save time, already entered into contracts
for the manufacture of the cable. They had had be

fore them some sixty-two samples of proposed types
of construction, and had adopted a very light core
with only 107 Ibs. of copper per nautical mile for
the conductor, and only 261 Ibs. of gutta-percha

per nautical mile as insulation. Bright advocated
a copper conductor of 392 pounds, and an equal
weight of gutta-percha. Whitehouse supported the

adoption of a small core ; while Varley and Thomson

urged a larger one. It was, however, too late to
change the contracts. With its sheathing of

stranded iron wires the weight was about one ton

340  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

per nautical mile. The contract for the core (the

copper conductor and its coating) was assigned to
the Gutta-Percha Company, while that for the iron

sheathing was divided between two firms, Messrs.
Glass, Elliot, and Co., of Greenwich, and Messrs.

Newall and Co., of Birkenhead. So loosely was the
specification drawn up, that not until the manufac

ture was completed was it discovered that the two
halves had been made with opposite directions of

twist in the armouring ! The cable was manufac
tured in 1 200 pieces of two miles length each. It

was then joined into eight pieces each 300 miles
long. Although various deep-sea cables had already
been made, the processes of manufacture were still
very crude. There was no regular test for the con
ductivity of the copper ; the gutta-percha was laid

on in a manner that would not be tolerated to-day,

and which did not ensure that the copper conductor

should remain central within its coating.1 The
manufacturers were bound to complete their work
within six months, and, in fact, the delivery was
completed by July 6, 1857.

    All through the preceding months Thomson,

with his laboratory corps, had been engaged upon a

research on the conductivity of copper. He had
realized the prime importance, in speed of signal
ling, of reducing the resistance that is offered by the

   1 A curious commentary on the state of knowledge is afforded by the
fact that the Prince Consort urged on one of the directors of the Atlantic

Telegraph Company that the proper plan would be to enclose the copper
wire in a flexible tube of glass throughout its entire length. On being told
that this was impracticable, he took down a volume of the writings of
Petronius Arbiter to prove that flexible glass was a known substance !

TIII THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 341

conducting wire. To raise the speed you must

have a better conductor ; and the conductor could

be bettered either by increasing its cross-section

(and weight per mile) or by improving the con
ductivity of the metal itself. On procuring samples
from various manufacturers of copper, and mea
suring the wires, he " was surprised " to find great
differences in their conductive quality. Even a
small percentage of impurity might reduce the con
ductivity by as much as 30 or 40 per cent. In a
paper " On the Electric Conductivity of Commercial
Copper," read to the Royal Society in June 1857,
he detailed his investigations, giving, in terms of an
" absolute " system of measurement, a table of the
results of his own experiments, and comparisons with
the standard wires used by Weber, Kirchhoff, and

Jacobi.
    In July 1857 there was issued by order of the

Board a pamphlet of 70 pages, signed " R. J. M.,"

describing the project It eulogized Mr. White-
house's particular inventions. To test the current

he proposed to supersede the galvanometer with an
instrument named the " magneto-electrometer," a
sort of steelyard with sliding weights to counter
poise the pull on a suspended iron armature of a soft
iron electro-magnet, the coils of which were tra

versed by the current. It was this very instrument
which had in 1856 led him to dispute the law of
squares, which law was still bluntly dismissed with
the words : " Nature recognizes the existence of no
such law" ! He also designed some induction-coils

342  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

36 inches long, with fine-wire secondaries capable
of yielding discharges at a high electromotive
force, with which he purported to have proved that

magneto-electric currents travel more quickly than

voltaic currents along gutta-percha- covered con
ductors. For testing the insulation and continuity
of the cable he proposed a species of relay, working

an alarm bell. To operate his induction coils the

source of current was to be a voltaic battery of ten
giant cells, called the "Whitehouse laminated or
perpetual maintenance battery," the cells being
large Smee cells with multiple replaceable plates.
As receiving instrument he devised a relay having
a small permanent magnet of horse -shoe form sus
pended between the poles of a large soft - iron
electro -magnet, the coils of which were to be con
nected at the receiving end of the cable. This
relay was to work a Morse embossing recorder.

     By a sort of irony, the compiler of this pamphlet
inserted the statement that " the scientific world is
particularly indebted to Professor W. Thompson
(sic), of Glasgow, for the attention he has given to
the theoretical investigation of the conditions under

which electrical currents move in long insulated
wires, and Mr. Whitehouse has had the advantage
of this gentleman's presence at his experiments, and
counsel, upon several occasions, as well as the

gratification resulting from his countenance and co

operation as one of the Directors of the Company."
There was another side to that story.

     Meantime arrangements had been made for the

viii  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  343

laying of the cable. The British Government
furnished H.M.S. Agamemnon, a screw-propeller

battleship (which had been the admiral's flag-ship in
the Crimean war), and the United States Govern

ment lent the U.S. frigate Niagara, a screw-corvette
of 5200 tons. The paying- out gear had to be
rather hurriedly constructed. Its brake -wheel was

governed by a clutch controlled by hand ; and it
was so heavy, that its grip of the cable was difficult

to relax, nor could it accommodate itself readily to

sudden strains on the cable due to pitching of the
ship. No opportunity was afforded Thomson for

testing the cable before laying.

    The ships met at Queenstown on July 3Oth and

proceeded to Valencia Bay, where on August 5th
the shore-end was landed. The Niagara began to

pay out her part ; it having been arranged that,

when half-way over, the Agamemnon should splice

her half of the cable to that already laid, and com
plete the laying. The electrician of the company,
Mr. Whitehouse, did not accompany the expedition,
and excused himself at the last moment on the score

of ill-health, the chief of the electrical staff on board
being Mr. De Sauty. When it was found that Mr.
Whitehouse could not undertake the voyage, at the
request of the directors, and without any salary or
position other than his membership of the Board of
Directors, Thomson agreed to join the expedition,
and was quartered on the Agamemnon, On August
5th the shore-end was landed from the Niagara,
while great cheers went up from the other ships,

344  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

gaily dressed from stem to stern in bunting, andit,
from the party who, headed by the Lord- Lieutenant,
stood on the shore to watch the American sailors

haul up the end. After the Niagara had laid 330
nautical miles, owing to mismanagement on the part

of a mechanic attending the paying-out brake, the
cable parted in water of 2000 fathoms, and the
expedition returned to Plymouth. The cable was
unloaded at Keyham Harbour, and re-coiled in tanks
in a shed, to be stored for the winter. An additional

length of 700 miles was manufactured, and new
paying-out machinery was designed in readiness
for the renewal of the enterprise the next year.

    Thomson went to the British Association meet

ing at Dublin, and there on August 28, 1857, he
gave an evening lecture on the Atlantic Tele
graph. In the sectional meetings he read three
papers. One was " On the Effects of Induction

on Long Submarine Cables"; a second "On Mr.

Whitehouse's Relay and Induction Coils in action
on Short Circuit." That Thomson should sink his

amour-propre in the interests of the Atlantic

Telegraph Company by thus associating himself
with Whitehouse's apparatus, is a surprising but
characteristic action. The third, " On Machinery
for Laying Submarine Telegraph Cables," was

printed in the Engineer of September nth. In it

he discussed the curvature of the portion hanging
from the stern of the ship during laying, and the

forces acting upon and declared that one necessity
was a mechanism that would, like the action of the

via  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  345

fly-fisher in yielding to any sudden tug on the part

of the fish, afford play in the event of any sudden

strain that otherwise might snap the cable. After

leaving Dublin he wrote on the question to his

brother James, to whose experience as a practical

engineer he often resorted :--

                                              ELK STR. OFF CARRICKFERGUS,

                                                                          Sep. 3, 1857.

    MY DEAR JAMES -- I have been thinking of the cable

settling curve, and I find that after all it was right that
it will be really a curve even when the tension is equal to
the weight of a length going perpendicularly to the bottom
from any point. Mr. Hart was wrong in saying that the

motion is rigorously perpendicular to the length when the
paying out is uniform and there is no slack. Universally,

if the paying out is uniform with no slack, the direction
of the absolute motion of any part of the cable must

bisect the angle between the line running horizontally
forwards and the direction of the cable obliquely down
wards, as may be inferred from the consideration of the
preceding case, or as we see by considering that the
velocity of the cable relatively to the ship (that is, the
relative velocity with which it passes away from the stern
pulley), is equal to the velocity of the ship, and that the
absolute velocity of the cable is the resultant of these two.
Hence there is always in uniform paying out with no
slack a motion which will give rise to tangential com
ponent of resistance of the water helping to bear the
weight. This conclusion is very important, as it shows
that less resistance than the weight of a portion hanging
vertically to the bottom will always suffice to stretch the

cable firmly on the bottom. It is clear still that if the

resistance be such as to give, first, no tension at the
bottom, but no slack, the cable will go down in an inclined
straight line ; but if it be resisted in leaving the ship with
any greater resistance than that, it will go out in a curve
which is convex upwards in its upper part and concave

346  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

upwards in its lower part. The inclination of this curve
to the vertical at its point of inflection will be exactly the

same as that of the straight line in which the cable goes
down when the speed is the same, and the resistance only

just enough to prevent slack.

   If my paper is not gone to the Engineer, will you alter

the part in which I say that the motion is rigorously
perpendicular to the length ? If not, will you send an
extract of this after it as an antidote ? Of course in this

case you would cut out the sentence in which I speak of
Hart being wrong. I write this to give it to the post at

Greenock in the morning for you, so it may reach you on

Saturday. -- Your affectionate brother,
                                               WILLIAM THOMSON.

    The Engineer of October 16 contained the
amending addition. To his sister Mrs. King, then
in Vevey, he wrote :--

                                           INVERCLOY, ARRAN, BY ARDROSSAN,

                                                             Sef. 22, 1857.

    MY DEAR ELIZABETH -- I am afraid I have done little

to improve my character as a correspondent since you left

England, but my old excuse has been more valid than
ever this summer. Ever since I last saw you in London
I have had a very disturbed time with a few short intervals.
Latterly the Atlantic Telegraph business has been very
urgent, and I have been repeatedly called by it to London.
I had only returned here three days from the meeting of
the British Association, which kept me a week at Dublin,

and was just beginning to feel settled with the prospect
of an unbroken time of quiet till the beginning of the

session, when I was called away to London to attend a
meeting of the Board of Directors, and I had to make a

journey to Devonport to look after the cable on board

the ships there, and arrangements for the electrical depart

ment before I got home again. I trust I shall now have

no more such disturbances, and get a little rest before the
beginning of my winter's work. I quite feel the necessity

vm THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 347

of getting myself freed from the various engrossing occu

pations which have for a long time prevented me from

ever having my mind off work, and I intend for some

time to come to limit myself very strictly to the duties of

my professorship. It will be a novelty to me to have no

paper in progress and no proof sheets coming in at all

iutn. re. a.so.--nabYloeutrimaefsf,ecatinodnatIeqburitoetheern,joy  looking forward  to
                                                                     W. THOMSON.

     Whatever Thomson's expressed intention as to
devoting himself more exclusively to the duties of
his Chair, he could not keep his mind from the
cable problems. He had begun with a Helmholtz
galvanometer. Now he was to step forward with
his own. He had been impressed with the necessity,
if signalling was to be rapid, of working with the

smallest possible currents, so that time might not
be lost while the pulse received from the sending
end rose to its full value. He wanted an instru

ment that would work with a smaller fraction of

current. So he determined to lighten the moving

part -- the suspended magnet --substituting for the

heavy needle a minute bit of steel watch-spring (or
two or three such bits), which he cemented to the
back of a light silvered glass mirror suspended
within the wire coil by a single fibre of cocoon silk.
Then he got rid of the observing telescope used
with the German galvanometers, by the device of
directing upon the mirror a beam of light from a
lamp, which beam, reflected on the mirror, fell upon
a long white card, marked with the divisions of a
scale, which was shaded from daylight, or set up in
a dark corner. When on the arrival of an electric

348 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

current the suspended magnet turned to right or

left it deflected the spot of light to right or left

upon the scale, and so showed the signal ; the beam

of light serving as a weightless index of exquisite

sensitiveness, magnifying the most minute move

ments of the " needle." It is said --and the story
is believed to be true --that this happy idea of

using the mirror on the " objective " plan arose

from noticing casually the reflexion of light from

the monocle which, being short-sighted, he habitu

ally wore hung around his neck with a ribbon.
This mirror - galvanometer, which with sundry

modifications * was embodied in his patent taken

    1 The patent specification, No. 329 of 1858, describes two early forms of
electrometer for testing, and several varieties of the mirror galvanometer,
with single, bifilar, and anchored suspensions, and with arrangements of con
trolling magnets or controlling currents in auxiliary coils. It also contains
several suggestions for duplex working ; and describes an early plan of curbing
the signals by applying first a positive electromotive force for a short time,
then a slightly greater negative electromotive force for an equal duration,
followed by a much smaller positive one for a third equal period. It also
suggested a device for utilizing a cable that might be able to transmit messages
twice as fast as any one clerk could send by providing at each end synchronous
circuit charges, so that the letters of two messages should be alternated in
transmission, and gives the following example: -- "Suppose that at one
station there are two instruments and two clerks, and that at the other
station the following series of signals arrive, PFRROETKETCR TAIDOBN, a
clerk at -the second station taking these letters alternately, finds that the first
clerk transmitted the word PROTECTION, and the second the words FREE
TRADE."

    A surprising addendum to the specification is a telewriter for transmitting
lines, figures, letters, or symbols by means of two separate circuits, acting at
the distant end on a beam of light by the movement of two mirrors to combine
two component movements at right angles to one another, with a third wire
to cut off the beam when the sender lifts his tracing point from the writing

surface.

     In the Encyclopedia Britannica (8th edit., of 1860), Thomson says :--
1' The ' marine galvanometer ' constructed by the writer for use on board the
Agamemnon and Niagara, differs from the land mirror galvanometer only in
the use of still higher directive force on the needle, and in the mode of
suspension of the mirror and needle, which was by means of a fine platinum
wire, or, as has since been found better, a stout bundle of twenty or thirty silk
fibres, firmly stretched between two fixed points of support." The substitution
of a silvered bit of microscope glass for a metal mirror was suggested by James
White the optician. The mirror weighed but one-third grain, and the magnet

vm  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH                                              349

out February 20, 1858, proved to be of enormous

importance in the subsequent history and develop
ment of submarine telegraphy. It served not only
as a " speaking " instrument for receiving signals,
but as an absolutely invaluable appliance both at

sea and in the laboratory1 for the most delicate

operations of electric testing. He also patented an

improved brake for paying out cables from ships.

    To Glasgow he took with him some sample

pieces from the unlaid portion of the cable, and

from other cables, to investigate the conductivity
of the copper. Finding them to differ greatly
amongst themselves, he selected five specimens,

and counterpoise attached at the back about as much, the whole being less

than one grain.                                               He had in 1854,
    The above patent was not actually Thomson's lirsl.

along with Rankine, taken out a patent, No. 2547, for improvements in

electrical conductors for telegraphic communication, in which they proposed
a stranded multiple conductor. For some reason this patent was abandoned.

The 1858 patent was, in 1871, extended for another eight years by decision
of the Privy Council.
    1 Thomson's galvanometer stimulated
characteristic parody, which appeared in  Clerk Maxwell  to   pe1n87t2he:--following
                                          Nature of May  16,

            A LECTURE ON THOMSON'S GALVANOMETER.

    [Delivered to a Single Pupil in an Alcove with Drawn Curtains.]

               The lamp-light falls on blackened walls,         dying.
                   And streams through narrow perforations ;

               The long beam trails o'er pasteboard scales,
                   With slow decaying oscillations.

    Flow, current ! flow I set the quick light-spot flying !
    Flow, current ! answer, light spot I flashing, quivering,

    Swing,  O look I how queer ! how thin and clear,
    Swing,      And thinner, clearer, sharper growing.

            This gliding fire, with central wire
               The fine degrees distinctly showing.

            magnet ! swing I advancing and receding ;
            magnet ! answer, dearest, what's your final reading?

    Break,  O love ! you fail to read the scale                 dying.
    Break,      Correct to tenths of a division ;

            To mirror heaven those eyes were given,
                And not for methods of precision.

            contact ! break ! set the free light-spot flying I
            contact 1 rest thee, magnet ! swinging, creeping,

350  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                         CHAP.

the conductivities of which, in terms of a certain

standard, were respectively 42, 71-3, 84-7, 86-4, and
1 02 per cent ; he sent them for analysis to Hofmann,
who pronounced the percentages of copper in them

to be 98-76, 99-20, 99-53, 99-57. and 99-20 re
spectively. Observing that the conductivity was
in the order of the purity of the copper, he procured

over forty other specimens that had been specially
alloyed with various minute proportions of other
metals. These he later described to the Royal

Society (Feb. 1860). A sample of Rio Tinto

copper examined by Matthiessen had a conductivity
no better than that of iron ! Calling the attention
of the Directors of the Atlantic Cable Company to
these deficiencies of conductivity, he was vexed to
find them apathetic. They had been assured by
their official electrician that the speed of signalling
was not affected by the resistance of the conductor.
Not until he took up an obstructionist attitude, and

persevered at successive meetings in opposing all
other business, did they listen to his insistence on
proper testing of material ; and he ultimately secured
the insertion of a clause requiring "high conductivity"
in the contract for 700 miles of new cable ordered
in the late autumn of 1857 to supply the place of the
portion lost in the first expedition. When this

clause was first submitted to the contractors they
declared1 it impossible, but eventually consented

"  1 " I fear," wrote the secretary, Mr. Saward, to Thomson      on October 6,
                                                                  arise from the
   that difficulty in carrying out your views about copper will

Gutta-Percha Company, who state that they cannot contract to deliver within

a specified time if the close examination you contemplate is to be undergone."

viii THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 351

at an increased price. To ensure compliance with

this provision, Thomson set up at the factory a
set of testing appliances, thus establishing for the
first time a factory testing laboratory. After this

practical engineers came to believe in the reality

of the existence of these differences in quality.
" From that time to the present," wrote Thomson

in 1883, "there has never been a question, on the

part of either companies or contractor, as to the

necessity for the stipulation              of ' high           conductivity                '
                                                                                             ;

and a branch of copper manufacture has grown up

in the course of these twenty-six years for producing
what is called in the trade ' conductivity copper.1 "

Still occupied with the questions of cable-laying,

Thomson wrote, in March 1858, to his brother

James :--

                                                    BlRKENHEAD, March 19, 1858.

    MY DEAR JAMES -- I was so busy the whole week after

you left that I could not manage to write a line in reply.

I was incessantly occupied getting my model ready, and

I had  a   new         one made            writehalvitayr--iousshiaftpinpgliantchees  to illustrate
how I     would          work in                                                      chain when

worn, regulating the pressure, etc. The plan you propose

does not fulfil the condition which I think of greatest
importance in connection with my plan -- that
                                           is                                              having
                                                           is

                                                                                is,
the part of the chain which under small tension simply

fixed, while the regulation of stress                          to be effected at

the end under heavy tension. My reason for making

this of importance                   : is  that the whole resistance cannot

possibly exceed the tension at the heavily stretched part,

A fortnight     later    he    wrote       " The conductivity  question                    occupying the
                  of   all                                     is
best attention               of us --    every hank of wire                         is is
                                                               being carefully tested to a

given standard. The attention of the most eminent smelters being directed
to the matter, and they have been invited to the gutta-percha works to see for

themselves the variations in conducting power of the several parcels sent in."

352         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                   CHAP.

and will always fall short of it by an amount (the tension
at the slightly stretched part) which is necessarily only a

small fraction of the whole, and which may therefore be

safely left to vary with friction ; though it should double
itself the diminution of resistance on the whole need not

be more than 3 or 4 per cent.
     The plan of a self - acting regulator by a movable

pulley has been much considered, and may possibly be
used. I rather think it will be better, however, to be

content in reply with an indicator of that kind, to show

the tension of the cable leaving the machinery, and to

regulate when necessary by hand. With my brake

nothing will be required but to put on a safe load on the
heavily stretched end and leave it to itself. I propose,

however, to have a plan by a lever at the lightly stretched

end by which in an instant this weight may be let down

and the brake entirely released -- a plan, in fact, like yours,

but worked by the hand and (what is the essential feature

of my plan) incapable of doing more than allow the full
load at the other end to act. I have altered the arrange

ment of chain so as to give it only one straight lead from

drum to drum ; this makes the pressure on the bearings

as little as need be, or as can be, with any form of brake.

I put a guard and support to keep this horizontal part in

its place and prevent it from rocking when the tension is

slack, and  the effect  isrigehxcte. l--lentY. ourI   have not a doubt      of
the whole   plan being                               affectionate brother,

                                WILLIAM THOMSON.

MY DEAR JAMES --        ...2 COLLEGE, GLASGOW, April 19, 1858.
                                I am having instruments

made for both Valencia and Newfoundland to work the

telegraph, and must have them finished and tested before

the 1 4th of May. I only commenced last Wednesday,
having just returned from Devonport, where I verified the

mathematical theory (with marvellous closeness, partly

by chance), and got,    with    --caIrne,    a letter   every three
seconds through 2700    miles.             haste, your   affectionate

brother,                                             W. THOMSON.

vin     THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH      353

    The early summer of 1858 found the "wire
squadron " preparing for the second attempt to lay
the cable. The Agamemnon and the Niagara were

again commissioned ; but the plan of campaign was
altered. This time they were to proceed to mid-

Atlantic, there effect a splice, and begin to pay out
in both directions at once. Also it was determined

to have a preliminary trial trip to the Bay of Biscay

to gain experience. Immense activity was manifest.
The cables were once more being coiled in the

ships. The Directors throughout April and May

were meeting daily, as the minutes of the Board

show. On April 7 the Directors were asked to say
which of them would accompany the expedition.

Disquieting reports were received on April 10 and

1 2 as to defects found in the cable in the process

of coiling it in the tanks on board at Devonport.

Thomson, still at his duties at Glasgow until May 1,

was writing about improvement for quicker signal

ling, and about his improved paying-out brake. On

April 13 he asked the Directors to grant ^2000 to
cover the cost of constructing new signalling instru
ments. On April 21 he gets his reply: -- "The

Directors, having regard to the reports and observa

tions of Mr. Whitehouse, and particularly to the

financial state of the Co., are of opinion that it would

not be expedient to advance so large a sum under

present circumstances . . . and, therefore, desire to

postpone their decision upon the form of instrument

to be ultimately used for working through the

cable until the task of submerging it shall have

VOL. I                          2A

354  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

been successfully accomplished." On 23rd he re
plies, asking for ^500 for instruments. The Board

gives him --by a bare majority--authority to com

plete the instruments he has on hand, but entreating
him to keep down the cost. On 2/th the Board
receives from him an acknowledgment, when he
adds that he will not expect the Company to take
his instruments unless they realize a speed of three

words a minute after the cable is laid ; he also re

quests that he may be allowed the use of the cable
(as coiled on ship) for two or three hours on the
3rd or 4th of May to make some tests. The Board

foreseeing difficulties makes a formal minute :--

" Ordered that Mr. Whitehouse be requested to
desire his assistants at Devonport to render Pro
fessor Thomson all possible attention and facilities,

and to follow his directions with respect to the

experiments he desires to make on the cable."

The same day the secretary is directed to address
to Mr. Whitehouse a letter, requesting him to
inform the Board on which of the ships he intends
to embark. On May 14, a letter is read from Mr.
Whitehouse, advising the Board of his intention to

embark on the Agamemnon, but expressing doubts

as to his accompanying the experimental trip.
" Ordered that Mr. Whitehouse be informed that

the Board desires his presence on board H.M.S.

Agamemnon during the experimental trip, and

that he be requested to make his arrangements
accordingly." But on May 29, when the fleet set
out for the Bay of Biscay, Whitehouse excused him

VIII  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  355

self. Thomson, waiting anxiously for the arrival of
the latest instruments from Glasgow, was almost the
last man to go aboard, a precious package being
handed up to him at the last moment by his

                       THOMSON'S MARINE MIRROR GALVANOMETER.
                                  Used on board the Niagara, 1858.

assistant Donald MacFarlane, who had brought it by

express. It contained an object like a small brass
pot standing on four legs -- the "marine mirror

galvanometer," constructed during the preceding
fortnight. One of these instruments is preserved in

356  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN             CHAP.

the Natural Philosophy Laboratory of the University

of Glasgow. The cut is from a photograph of the

instrument by kind permission of Professor Andrew

Gray.                                In water nearly

   All went well on the trial trip.

three miles in depth they practised making splices

and lowering them, paying out and hauling in the

cable, changing from upper to lower hold, buoying

the cable and picking it up, and passing the cable from

stern to bow --operations which might be necessary
if anything should go wrong in the laying of the line
across the Atlantic. This trial trip being successfully

over, the ships returned to Plymouth on June 3.
    Saward, the Secretary of the Company, has put

on record the following comment :--

     On arriving at Plymouth the condition of the electrical
department was found to be such as to cause great anxiety
to the Directors. They had given instructions to the
electrician during the winter to employ the Company's
operators in constant practice upon the instruments which
were supposed to be in preparation for final use in working
through the cable ; and as the whole of the latter was
coiled in one building at Keyham, it was supposed that
they would have the opportunity of sending and receiving
messages through its whole length during several months,
and be thus prepared for all the peculiarities of a conductor
so long and special in its character. The Directors were,
therefore, greatly disappointed to find that not only had

this not been done, but they found on their assembling at
Plymouth that the instruments were not in a state, nor of

a nature calculated to work the cable to a commercial

profit.

    The expedition sailed westwards on June 10.
Charles Bright was again chief engineer, on board

VIII THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 357

the Agamemnon, with Canning and Clifford as
assistants ; and was represented on the Niagara
by Everett and Woodhouse. Cyrus Field was on.
board the Niagara ; De Sauty was electrician on
board the Agamemnon. Whitehouse, being again
unable to go to sea, repaired to Valencia to await

the arrival of the Irish end of the cable. At the

request of the Directors Thomson consented to
supervise the arrangements of the testing-room on

the Agamemnon in an honorary capacity. It was

a difficult position, for he had had little opportunity
of making any tests on the state of the cable since
it left the factory. His urgent representations as
to the necessity of providing proper resistance coils
and other testing apparatus on board had been
ignored. Even his instruments had only been allowed
on sufferance to be inserted in the circuit on his
arrival in Ireland. He was in no way responsible

for the instruments provided by the official electrician

for the tests on board, upon which reliance was
supposed to be placed. But before consenting to
go to sea he made it a condition that permission
should be given to have his marine galvanometer
in circuit, because by it he expected to have more
definite information than he could have by watching

the tests that were prepared.
     When less than two days out the Agamemnon

encountered an Atlantic storm l of most exceptional

1 A wonderfully graphic account of this really terrible storm was written

by Mr. Nicholas Woods,     n,the Times correspondent on board  the Agamemnon,
in the Times of August                                         Charles Bright's
                                1858. It is reprinted in Mr.
Life Story of Sir Charles  T. Bright.

358  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

violence, which lasted for eight days. Laden as the
ship was in her hold, and with a dead weight of some

250 tons coiled on her upper deck, the Agamemnon
was ill fitted to encounter such a trying occurrence.

Her deck planks already gaped an inch apart, and

when rolling in the heavy seas they opened wide
and closed again at every oscillation. The electrical

testing cabin was flooded. A portion of the coiled

cable was seriously displaced and damaged ; the
cargo of coal broke loose ; and ten of the crew were
injured. On the return of fine weather the squadron

met at their rendezvous in mid-ocean fifteen days

after leaving Plymouth. It took two days to un

coil and re-coil the tangled section, nearly 100 miles
long, of cable. On June 26 a splice was made and
paying-out began ; but the cable broke on board

the Niagara when about 6 miles had been paid

out. A second splice was made, but again the

cable failed when some 80 miles had been laid.

On the 28th a third splice was effected, but the

day after, when each ship had paid out over a

hundred miles, the cable parted at the stern of the

Agamemnon, giving way at a point where it had

been damaged by the disturbance of the flooring of
the tank during the storm. During foggy days
which succeeded, the Agamemnon failed to find her

sister ship at the rendezvous, and therefore returned

to Queenstown to meet her. Queenstown was

reached on July 12, after being thirty-three days
out of sight of land. No sooner did the ships meet
here than Thomson had the two halves of the cable

VIM  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  359

temporarily spliced, and transmitted signals through
the entire length, thus showing once more that the
difficulties were mechanical, not electrical.

     Faced with this failure the Directors were divided ;

some of those most concerned commercially, being
convinced that the project was impracticable, now
advocated a realization of assets and winding up of
the Company. Against these despairing counsels
the men of action stood for a final effort. Bright,
Brett, Field, Whitehouse, and Lampson were all
eager to go on. Thomson, who had never once
despaired of ultimate success, was emphatic for con
tinuing the attempt. After keen discussion, followed
by the resignation of the Vice-chairman, the Board
ordered the immediate sailing of the expedition on
jyhat to all but themselves seemed truly a forlorn

hope.

    After taking in coal the ships steamed away from
Queenstown, the Niagara and the two consorts, the
Gorgon and the Valorous, leaving on July 17, and the
Agamemnon, with Th'omson on board, on the day
following. They met at the rendezvous on July 29,

and the same day spliced ends and began paying out.

The weather was mostly bad, and there were

several temporary mishaps which only the vigilance
and energy of the staff prevented from becoming
disasters. Owing to the inertia of the paying-out
wheels and machinery, the stress on the cable
fluctuated with every rise and fall of the ship's
stern, so that to save the cable from snapping the
run of the wheels had to be regulated by the sailors'

360         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                      CHAP.

hands, under the immediate supervision of officers,
without intermission day and night. Both ships

reached land on the same day, August 5, and landed
their respective ends of the cable.

   Of the resourceful energy of the chief engineer,

and the devotion and ability of the captain, it would

be impossible to speak too highly, and they are

rightly praised in the contemporary narratives where
for the most part the unassuming services of
Thomson are but slightly recorded ; and little is
said of the personal part he took. Happily a con
temporary account in the Sydney Morning Herald,
in a letter written by a junior member of the
electrical staff, supplies a few notes that are of more

than personal interest :--

     The electrical room is on the starboard side of the

main deck forward. The arrangements have been altered

several times in order to avoid the water which showers

down from the upper deck. At one end of the little

place the batteries are ranged on shelves and railed in.

At the other stands a table with the various instruments
arranged in electric series. On one side stand the " de
tectors " of the old system, so called from being chiefly

used in testing for faults ; and Whitehouse's beautiful
" Magnetometer," called by some one his " pet child."

These are under the eye of one of the clerks on duty.

On the opposite side of the table is Thomson's marine

galvanometer, so called because it combines delicacy with

perfect stability at sea. It is closed up in a plain deal

box, which is placed on a frame, equally primitive, attached
to springs. Yet this little " Jack-in-the-box," as we often

call does the work of every instrument on the table in
     it,
               is
                                             a

                                                  a
its own peculiar way, and deal more accurately. The

indication  given by little mirror which reflects the

viii THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 361

light of a paraffin lamp, through a lens, on a scale. This

little mirror is fixed to a very small magnet, which, being

influenced by the current, movesis           and therefore the spot,
                                        it,
over so manydegrees. We send and receive during alternate

ten minutes. The current sent through Dr. Thomson's
galvanometer to the lower end of the " orlop " coil, which

will be brought to shore, through all the cable on board,

over the stern, under the sea, to the Niagara, where                                           it
                                                                                                   is it
traverses all her cable before reaching instruments exactly

similar. The most valuable observation taken in sending
                                             is

on the marine galvanometer. Three seconds before

taken, the clerk at the opposite side of the table who times

all the observations by a watch regulated by a chronometer
too valuable to bring into so wet a place, says " Look out."

The other clerk at once fixes his eye on the spot of light,
                                  given " Now," records the
and immediately the wordis
                            is
indication. This testing made from minute to minute,

so that a flow detected the moment occurs. Indeed,
        is                                   it
               a                                     it
on one occasion, break which happened between the

taffrail and the water was observed before               reached the

sea, which of course made  it  at once       evident enough.
                               exciting       occupation to watch
   July 29. -- It rather anis

the tell-tale signals as we pay out. Even the most indif
ferent " holds his breath for a time " when their story of
                                                                                               is

dubious or ominous import. We are regarded by the

engineers about the paying-out machinery as birds of evil

omen. If one of our number rushes upon deck or

approaches with hurried step, they look as Roman
        it
             is

                            a
                                                             a

                                                                                            a
husbandman might have done at crow on a blasted tree.

Indeed  almost impossible to realise the anxiety and

heart-interest everybody manifests in the undertaking. No

one seems to breathe freely. Few, but the men, even

sleep soundly. Professor Thomson frequently does not

put off his clothes at night.

     To-night, but a few hours after starting, we had an
alarming crisis. We had signalled to the Niagara, " Forty

miles submerged," and she was just beginning her acknow

ledgment, when suddenly, at 10 P.M., communication

ceased. According to orders those on duty sent at once

362  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

for Dr. Thomson. He came in a fearful state of excite
ment. The very thought of disaster seemed to overpower
him. His hand shook so much that he could scarcely ad
just his eyeglass. The veins on his forehead were swollen.
His face was deadly pale. After consulting his marine

galvanometer, he said the conducting wire was broken, but
still insulated from the water. Mr. Bright noticed the

Professor hurrying to the electrical room, and followed
close on his heels. He supposed the fault might lie in
a suspicious portion which had been observed in the main
coil. The cable was tested on both sides of this place,
but it was all right there. The fault was not on board,

but between the ships. There did not seem to be any
room to hope ; but still it was determined to keep the

cable slowly going out, that all opportunity might be
given for a resuscitation. The scene in and about the
electrical room was such as I shall never forget. The two

clerks on duty, watching, with the common anxiety depicted

on their faces, for a propitious signal ; Dr. Thomson, in a

perfect fever of nervous excitement, shaking like an aspen
leaf, yet in mind clear and collected, testing and waiting,
with half-despairing look for the result ; Mr. Bright, stand
ing like a boy caught in a fault, his lips and cheek smeared

with tar, biting his nails as if in a puzzle, and looking to
the Professor for advice ; Mr. Canning, grave, but cool and
self-possessed, like a man fully equal to such an emergency;

the captain, viewing with anxious look the bad symptoms
of the testing as indicated on the galvanometer and pointed
out by Dr. Thomson. Behind, in the darker part of the
room, stood various officers of the ship. Round the door
crowded the sailors of the watch, peeping over each

other's shoulders at the mysteries, and shouting "gangway!"
when any one of importance wished to enter. The eyes
of all were directed to the instruments, watching for the
slightest quiver indicative of life. Such a scene was never

witnessed save by the bedside of the dying. Things
continued thus. Dr. Thomson and the others left the

room, convinced they were once more doomed to dis
appointment. Still the cable went slowly out, while in

vm  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  363

the hold they were re-splicing the suspected portion. The

clerks continued sending regular currents. All at once

the galvanometer indicated a complete breaking in the
water. We all made the dread interpretation, and looked
at each other in silence. Suddenly one sang out, " Halloa !
the spot has gone up to 40 degrees." The clerk at the
ordinary instrument bolted right out of the room, scarcely

knowing where he went for joy ; ran to the poop, and
cried out, " Mr. Thomson ! the cable's all right ; we got
a signal from the Niagara" In less than no time he was
down, tested, found the old dismal result, and left immedi

ately. He had not disappeared in the crowd when a
signal came which undoubtedly originated in the Niagara.
Our joy was so deep and earnest that it did not suffer
us to speak for some seconds. But when the first stun
of surprise and pleasure passed, each one began trying to

express his feelings in some way more or less energetic.
Dr. Thomson laughed right loud and heartily. Never was

more anxiety compressed into such a space. It lasted

exactly one hour and a half, but it did not seem to us a
third of that time.

    As we drew nearer Ireland the storm began to abate,

and things became altogether so cheerful in aspect that
we dared to hope. Still, to the last, we never were
entirely free from anxiety from one cause or another.
The signals failed once altogether. The only instrument
which kept us from despair was Dr. Thomson's. I could
compare him, watching the slight quivering indication,
only to one holding a mirror to the lips of a dying
relative to see whether so much of breath remained as

would dim its surface. Twice, also, we narrowly missed

having a collision with vessels, in each case American.
On one occasion the unlucky craft was a small anomalous-
looking schooner. But the crew made all possible amends,
as soon as they saw the cable at our stern, dipping their

ensign some half-dozen times, and cheering lustily.
     On the night of the 3rd August we got into shallow

water. About ten Dr. Thomson came into the electrical

364     LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                 CHAP.

cabin, evidently in a state of enjoyment so intense as

almost to absorb the whole soul and create absence of

mind. His countenance beamed with placid satisfaction.

He did not speak for a little, but employed himself

stretching scraps of sheet gutta-percha over the hot globe

of our  lamp ; watching                 them with    an   absent eye as they
curled                                 last he said    "
        and shrank. At                                    At half-past eleven
                                                     :

you may send the 200 fathoms" soundings signal." He

then proceeded to congratulate those present on being

connected with such an expedition, regarding its object as

already un fait accompli.

When we got close inshore we threw off the cable-

boat. Before our prow grated on the strand her impetus

had taken her ashore. The Valorous, in the distance,

fired her guns. The end was seized by the jolly tars and

run off with ; a good-humoured scuffle ensued betwixt
them and the gentlemen of the island for the honour of

the pulling the cable up to the office. The Knight of
Kerry was upset in the water. As soon as it got fairly

honault'e--rrjausftirsmo amuachbeavsy   of ladies gave it   a make-believe
                                       to tar their gloves  or white hands,

and give occasion for a nice business-like little fuss in

getting butter or other oleaginous matter to remove the

stain ! Meanwhile we were thrown rather behind. Seeing

that those who most deserved the honour were likely to

lose Dr. Thomson, followed by Anderson clerk, and
     it,

                                          ;

                                                                                         a
myself, jumped out of the boat and waded ashore, but in

time only to tar our hands ineffectually, like the ladies.

The end was taken to the slate works, where the Company's

offices are temporarily fixed. About five minutes to four

Dr. Thomson sent the first current from shore to shore,

to test the state of the cable. All was right. At four

we received the first current.

Thus was the grandest undertaking of the century

terminated with success, and just a year after the com

mencement of last expedition. The ships started first

5th August 1857 we brought in the cable $th August

1858.

vni  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH                  365

     Unbounded were the rejoicings on both sides of

the Atlantic. In every American city there were

wild celebrations and gay displays and processions.

In New York the church bells were rung, and a
salute of a hundred guns fired. The success of the
cable became " the theme of innumerable sermons

and a prodigious quantity of doggerel." In England

the rejoicings were more restrained, but the Irish

cities were scenes of wild delight. Bright received

knighthood at the hands of the Lord-Lieutenant of
Ireland, and the Directors congratulated themselves

on the success which crowned their efforts.

    Thomson has recorded, in his Presidential Address

of 1889 to the Institution of Electrical Engineers,
the following generous note :--

     The first Atlantic cable gave me the happiness and
privilege of meeting and working with the late Sir Charles
Bright. He was the engineer of this great undertaking,
full of vigour, full of enthusiasm. We were shipmates on
the Agamemnon on the ever-memorable expedition of
1858, during which we were out of sight of land for
thirty-three days. To Sir C. Bright's vigour, earnestness,
and enthusiasm was due the laying of the cable.

     And Bright has given us the following little
silhouette of Thomson :--
     ...As for the Professor
                              he was a thorough good
comrade, good all round, and would have taken his " turn
at the wheel " of the paying-out brake if others had broken

down. He was also a good partner at whist when work

wasn't on ; though sometimes, when momentarily immersed

in cogibundity of cogitation, by scientific  abstraction, he
would look up from his cards and ask,        " Wha played
what ? "

366  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

     Throughout the voyage Thomson's mirror gal

vanometer had been used for the continuity tests
and for signalling to shore with a battery of seventy-
five Daniell's cells. The continuity was reported

perfect, and the insulation had improved on sub
mersion. On August 5 the cable was handed over
to Mr. Whitehouse and reported to be in perfect

condition.

    On August 6 the Secretary wrote to Thomson: --
    "The Directors desire very heartily to congratu
late you upon the successful accomplishment of the
great work in which we have been engaged, which
has created the greatest and most lively wonder and
satisfaction among all classes of society here." He

further enclosed an extract from the Board minutes,

giving strict orders that no person was to send
messages of any description except Professor Thom
son and Mr. Whitehouse in Ireland, and Mr. De
Sauty and Mr. Laws in Newfoundland, followed by
other regulations pending the opening of the regular
service. On the loth the Directors passed a formal
vote of thanks, which was later presented to Thom

son, framed in decorative form. It ran :--

     Resolved : That the sincere thanks of this Board be
given to their distinguished colleague Professor Thomson
of Glasgow for his exertions on behalf of the Company,
more especially for the great sacrifices he has made in
twice accompanying the Atlantic squadron during its
perilous course, and for the important aid he has rendered
towards bringing this great undertaking to a successful

issue.

    Whitehouse at once abandoned the Thomson

vin THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 367

mirror instruments, and began working with his own

patented apparatus, using heavy relays and his

special transmitter with induction coils. He sent in
no report to the Directors for a week, while he made
ineffectual attempts with bigger induction coils to
get his apparatus to work. To the Directors he
sent the excuse that he was still "adjusting" the
instruments. Days passed, and still no messages
were transmitted. The public began to murmur.
The Directors became uneasy. Thomson, who had
remained at Valencia to assist Whitehouse -- when
permitted --had left early on the loth August for
Glasgow -- from which he had been absent since
2nd May. Board-meetings held in London on the
9th, loth, and nth of August awaited impatiently
for reports from Whitehouse as to the state of
things. After more than a week the reflecting gal
vanometer and ordinary Daniell cells were resumed
at Valencia, and only on August 13 the first clear

 messages were interchanged and international con
gratulations passed. But at Newfoundland they
 were still using the older instruments, and the sig
 nalling was very slow, and was often interrupted.

A congratulatory message from the Queen to the

 President of the United States, containing but 99
 words, took 16i hours to transmit! Yet the same
 message was repeated back from Newfoundland
 without a mistake in 67 minutes. Clearly there
 was something seriously wrong. Whitehouse had
 told Thomson before he left that he suspected a

 fault about two miles away in the shallow water

368  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                 CHAP.

of Valencia harbour mouth. Thomson assured him

that there was no evidence in the tests for this,

but that probably the fault lay about 300 miles to
the west, where the ocean deepens. Whitehouse
proposed to raise the cable in the harbour to look

for the supposed fault. The Board issued strict
orders that he must not attempt this. They also
sent Mr. France, a skilled cable operator, to aid in
unravelling the difficulties ; but on reaching Valencia
he was refused admission by Whitehouse. Receiv

ing only evasive replies, and learning a few days
later that, in contravention of their orders, White-
house had underrun the cable to the harbour mouth,
and had cut and buoyed it at Doulas Head, the
Board on the 1 7th declared his appointment ter
minated, and summoned him to London.

    The Board then addressed to Thomson the
following authority to take sole charge :--

                                   ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH COMPANY,

                                   22 OLD BROAD STREET,

                                                               LONDON, August 18, 1858.

DEAR SIR --You are hereby authorised and empowered to

take charge and possession (until further arrangements can be
made) of this Company's office and Electrical apparatus at
Valencia, and to issue in respect to the adjustment and working

of the instruments such instructions as you may deem best. It

is also hereby ordered and authorised that no person whatever

is to be allowed on  any pretence  toordeenrtearntdhepeCrommispsainoyn'.s--eWleectraicrae,l
department without   your special

dear sir, yours truly,

                                   C. M. LAMPSON,

                                   Vice- Chairman.

                                   WILLIAM LOGIE,

Professor W. Thomson, LL.D.,       HENRY HARRISON,
                                   GEORGE SAWARD,

     etc. etc.                     Secretary.

vin     THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH      369

     Thomson, on arriving at Valencia on the 21st, was

at first disposed to defend Whitehouse, telegraphing

twice, and then dispatching a long report. To his

surprise he had found his own instrument installed

instead of Whitehouse's !
    In the subsequent enquiry it came out that from

the first Whitehouse had been unable to receive mes

sages satisfactorily with his instruments. Part of

his method of working was to relay the signals, as

received, upon an automatic Morse recorder, which

printed dots and dashes of the message upon a
tape. When his own relays proved too clumsy for

the delicate impulses that came from Newfoundland,

he had them read on Thomson's galvanometer by

a clerk who watched the movements of the spot
of light, and who, working by hand a signalling

key on the table before him, joined by wires to the
Morse recorder on the other side of the table,

printed the dots and dashes on tape as though they

had been received by relay. The receiving clerk,

in fact, acted the part of relay. These slips were
sent by Whitehouse to the Directors in London,

who were thus misled into supposing that the

messages had been received by means of his own

apparatus. But it was otherwise at Newfoundland ;
for there the operators, obedient to instructions, as

soon as the Thomson instrument at their end showed

that signals were being transmitted, at once threw

it out and substituted a common telegraph detector

and the Whitehouse relay; and finding the incoming

currents too weak to read, signalled back to Valencia

VOL. 1                          2B

370  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                      CHAP.

for slower currents to be sent. Whitehouse at

Valencia put on bigger induction-coils, emitting more

powerful discharges.

    Thomson now changed all this. After trying

fruitlessly for a whole day to get the Newfoundland

operators to understand, he succeeded in directing

them to substitute his galvanometer for reading the

signals, and at once communication was restored.

Thomson had previously been led to pronounce the

opinion that Whitehouse was to blame for the failure

of Newfoundland to receive signals. He now with

an excess of generosity asked the Board to condone

Whitehouse's errors of judgment, and to reconsider
the resolution of the 17th. The Directors, on the
25th, sent a reply to Thomson that his own benevo

lent and kindly feelings must have obscured his

more reflective judgment. Their criticism of White-

house was unsparing.     The following is taken from

the official letter :--

Mr. Whitehouse has been engaged some 18 months

in investigations, which have cost some £12,000 to this

Company, so that he has been in a position to avail him

self of every resource that would tend to accomplish the

objects on which he was at work, and now ! when we

have laid our cable, and the whole world is looking on

with impatience to realise some results from our success,

we are, after all, only saved from being a laughing stock

because the Directors are fortunate enough to have an

illustrious colleague who has devoted his mind to this

s--ubajetcstm, aanlldexwphenossee--invaenndtiofrnosm  produced in his own     study
                                                      his own resources, are  avail

able to supersede the useless portions of apparatus prepared

at great labour and enormous cost for this special occasion.

vm                  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH      371

    It cannot, therefore, on your own evidence, be admitted,

that Mr. Whitehouse " has been conducting his own proper

business in a thoroughly efficient and successful manner"
but on the contrary the evidence, as given by yourself,
demonstrates that there has been neither " efficiency "
nor " success," nor can the Directors agree with you in
believing him to be " one of their most devoted officers."

On   tphoestf--irstwistahioliuntg  of the Atlantic squadron he abandoned
his
                                   notice -- without any indication to any

one up to the last moment that he intended to do so.

On the last occasion he again refused to go out, and had

it not been for yourself, we should consequently have

been placed in serious difficulty.           He has run counter to
the wishes of the Directors on a
                                           great many occasions --

disobeyed time after time their positive instructions, in

--respthecrot wtno  incurring liabilities  on behalf of the Company
                     obstacles in the      way of every one, except

yourself, whom the Directors desired to consult, and acted

in every way as if his own fame and self-importance

were the only points of consequence to be considered in
dealing with his department. These matters, if you will

give them due reflection, will, it is trusted, show you that

the quality of devotion to this Company which you

claim for our late electrician does not exist.

     But your letter leaves undefended the chief and most

important point in Mr. Whitehouse's conduct, and which

rendered his dismissal inevitable and imperative, viz., his

recent acts in reference to the under-running of the cable

and his treatment of Mr. France. These acts are only

the climax of many previous and similar ones, and it has

now become a question whether Mr. Whitehouse or the

Directors are to govern this undertaking.

    What are the facts? From the 5th to the 13*
instant Mr. Whitehouse has undisturbed possession of

the cable, he finds difficulties and perplexities which he

cannot combat, and towards the solution of which he

calls in no extraneous aid. On the 1 3th he sends to the

Directors a message which conveys gratifying and satis

factory intelligence respecting the working of the cable.

372             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                             CHAP.

They publish           little thinking that at the moment this
                a it,

                               !
                                                               !
                                                                             ?
very message was on its way to them another and secret

message was being sent. To whom                                                 Not to the recog

nised engineer of the Company                                                 Not to the Directors  !

but to Mr. Canning ordering him to come to Valencia

to under-run     the cable, thus jumping at once to the
                which no subsequent circumstances have
conclusion --
proved -- that       fault existed in the work of another

department of the Company, but denying to the head

of that department the opportunity of showing that his

work was done properly, and taking upon himself the

ungenerous task of overhauling another's labours, without

seeking or obtaining the least approval or assent from the

Directors in doing so, an assent which he could have

obtained in couple of hours.
is
                        a

                                 a
On Mr. Whitehouse's arrival in town his demeanour

precisely on par with his previous behaviour. He

tells the Vice-chairman that the Directors have grossly

neglected their duties, that they have insulted him, and

that he would on similar occasions act exactly as on the
last. It
             plain either Mr. Whitehouse or the Directors
           is
must resign, and we do most respectfully beg of you toit
                   is
reconsider your whole judgment of this matter, and to

support, as            thought you are in justice bound to do,

the dignity and authority of your colleagues.

     anything could prove Thomson's entire dis
If

       it
            is
interestedness, -- for even this letter did not open his
eyes, --
                the circumstance that his reply pleaded

that Mr. Whitehouse's name should still remain

connected with the Company          !

Meantime became evident that the cable was
it
                        it

                               it
showing distinct enfeeblement under the treatment
   had received. The tests showed its insulation to

be far worse than was before submergence.

More feeble grew the signals. Official messages

viii THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 373

could be sent to Newfoundland only with the greatest
difficulty and many repetitions of words ; yet the

messages back were always clear and distinct, even

if weak. The President's reply to Queen Victoria's

message was read with comparative ease. News of
peace with China and of the end of the Indian Mutiny
was transmitted with difficulty. On August 31 a
Government message was sent to the Canadian
government countermanding the sailing of troops
from Canada ; and a second, of great importance,
on September 1st. Then a great change for the
worse came, and it was almost impossible to make
the signals understood at Newfoundland. On
September 3rd a dinner was given at Killarney to
the Chairman and Directors of the Company at
which Thomson spoke. He was as ever modest as
to his own part, optimistic, and generous. Deal
ing with the special difficulty that beset cable signal

ling--the retardation due to capacity --he said :--

The genius of Faraday anticipated the difficulty ;

mathematicians calculated it. They gave a necessary

warning, and, as events have proved, a perfectly correct

estimate of the amount of embarrassment to be overcome.

The elaborate and preliminary experiments of Mr. White-

house had a large influence in removing from the public

mind doubts felt as to the practicability of telegraphing

through 2000 miles of submarine cable at a sufficient

rate for practical purposes ; and to him in a great

...measure is due the present existence of the Atlantic
telegraph.  Sir Charles Bright was the man who had

undertaken and executed the impossible task. . . . The

possibility of sending currents through 2500 miles of

submarine cable was not reasonably doubted.

374  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAC.

    Slowly matters drifted from bad to worse. On

the twenty-third day from landing, the last con
sistent message was received at Valencia from New
foundland ending with : "Forty-eight words. Right.
Right." The last message received at Newfoundland
from Valencia ended with the words "now in position
to do best to forward." Altogether 732 messages
had been conveyed. After that the cable spoke no
more, though for several weeks Varley and other
electricians who were called in attempted with
partial success to restore operations. The very last
intelligible phrase came through on October 20 :
' ' Two hundred and forty tk . . . two Daniells now
in circuit." Almost as dramatic as its success was

its end.

    Unhappily there now broke out angry recrimina
tions between Whitehouse and the Directors. In

The Times of September 7, Whitehouse attacked the
Board in a number of wild statements. Thomson

telegraphed from Valencia to the Directors :--

    It is not correct, as stated in Whitehouse's letter to

Times, that the President's reply was received and recorded

here under Whitehouse's patent. It was received on my

land reflection galvanometer and recorded by hand.
Signal book contains full evidence. For instance, take

following extract. . . .

    I trust you will send an authorized correction on this
point to The Times if you have not already done so.

Please reply.

    The Directors did reply, and very emphatically,
in The Times and other journals, showing how their

late electrician had misled and disobeyed them ;

vin  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  375

and Whitehouse rejoined unsparingly with bitter

personalities.
    Thomson himself wrote a private letter to White-

house, of which the draft has been preserved :--

     Your letter to the Times has given me more pain
than any one of the many painful incidents of the last
three weeks. How could you possibly have allowed

yourself so far to forget the facts as to say that the

President's reply had been received and recorded here

under your patents ? Should the Directors not give a
decided reply on this point, it would become necessary

for me to reply in my own name. I regret extremely,

too, that you should have committed yourself so, as

regards a fault in the harbour, to an opinion which is

certainly mistaken, and which cannot but have a most
hurtful effect on the public as regards the value of the

Co.'s property. I was most anxious to pass over what
I knew to be a mistake all along, and to have as little

said about it as possible, but now it becomes quite neces
sary that the public should be told what the amount of

the fault in the cable really was, which was supposed to
have caused the break of signals complained of at the
other end. I wrote to you from London a warning, in

the anxious hope that you might not commit yourself

further, and felt greatly disappointed that you did not
meet me in the spirit of candid inquiry into the truth,

rather than go on defending a hasty step, for which the
extreme perplexity of the circumstances in which you

acted afforded the only justification. You will, I hope,
believe me, that I say all this in no unfriendly spirit, but
in self-justification. There would be a want of sincerity
now in concealing from you the views which I cannot
longer conceal from others without a violation of truth.
I cannot forget the regard and esteem I have felt for you,

nor the pleasure which intercourse with you has given
me ; and although I cannot understand the course you
are now taking, I hope that we shall meet again without

376 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

allowing anything that may come before the public to
alter the kindly relations between us.

    Whitehouse's reply to the foregoing is unknown,
but its contents and tone may be judged of by the
strong rejoinder it drew from Thomson, here given

from the carefully corrected draft in his own hand

writing. The passage here printed in brackets is
scored out in this draft :--

                                               VALENCIA, September 23, 1858.

MY DEAR WHITEHOUSE --Your reply to my last letter

has made me feel how widely we differ in much that is

essential for true friendship. You had surely learned
long before that " no difference of opinion need separate

friends," in the example of our own intercourse. It is

not now a question of difference of opinion, but of truth

and honour that has risen.

The impression conveyed by your second letter to

the Times is that your first statement regarding the

President's reply was a mere inadvertence, attributable to

your absence from Valencia, and that what you had said

of it was true of other messages. I can find no evidence,

after the most minute investigation, that it was true of

any one complete message, or that any other system than

that by which the President's reply was received, was ever

depended on for doing business at this station from the

time when I showed you the dots and dashes on my

galvanometer, on the night when telegraphic signals first

came from Newfoundland.

     I want no one to explain my galvanometer to the
world, or to boast of its capabilities. I look for no

acknowledgment in the newspapers of what I have done

I[efiththeirs  for you or for the Company] ;  but I want truth.
               had been maintained not only   with reference to

what more immediately concerns myself, but by the cor

rection of such falsehoods as appeared in a letter signed

T. S., in a Liverpool paper in which telegrams were dealt

vni THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 377

with, in a manner implying that the writer had had

access to them from you, I should gladly have left to

time the settlement of all questions between us, either as

to science or as to the art of telegraphing. Three weeks
ago I could not have believed it possible that under any

circumstances you could act as you have done, and a

most painful feeling of disappointment would     be removed,
if it could still be proved that I was not thus
                                                 mistaken. --

I remain, yours faithfully,                      W. T.

E. O. Wildman Whitehouse, Esq.,

         British Association, Leeds.

The next day Thomson wrote to the Secretary :--

                                                                                24/A Sept. 1858.

MY DEAR SIR --The results of experiments on the

cable, quoted by Mr. Varley as having been communi

cated to him here, were not, as he naturally conjectures,

made at Queenstown, but chiefly on board the Agamem

non during her last cruise. By a comparison which I

made of them after landing, with a few hasty memoranda

of observations I had made at Keyham (the last set
quoted by Mr. Varley), I was led to infer that the part of

the cable on board the Agamemnon had all along been in

a much worse state as to insulation than the average of

the whole cable. Even the observations at Keyham

alone showed that the A.'s portion had some much worse

insulation in some part of it than the Niagara's. I men

tioned this to Mr. Whitehouse, and he said he was aware

of and that was owing to the improved manufacture
it,

      if

                I
                    it

                        is
                                            it

                                                                       is
                                                                                        I
of the cable of this year, which was then being put on

board the Niagara, and chiefly influenced the tests

applied. A thorough system of testing applied to the

cable from the beginning, and regularly continued during

the various changes to which has been subjected, would

probably have obviated the disaster by which the whole

has been ruined. Even the doubt which now felt as to

whether the fault 240 or 300 miles off, could not have
              each part of the cable had been tested for
existed

inductivity.  mention this not to imply censure on the

378         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                       CHAP.

past management, but rather to call attention to what we

should aim at if we are to continue the great undertaking.

The thorough testing to which I refer has not yet been

fully carried out on any cable or other telegraphic con

ductor, but I believe that I shall be able to show that it

can be done with ease, and without any increased expense,

by a little arrangement beforehand.
     There is one part of Varley's opinion in which I

cannot quite agree with him -- that the resistance of the

fault is equal to at least 10 miles of the cable. From

observations I have made, both before and after his visit

to Valencia, I feel convinced that it must be much less

(or the effect of the fault much greater) than he supposes.
I do not think the resistance can possibly be greater than

from 2 to 5 miles, but I shall repeat my observations
with care, and let you know the result. It may be still

that there is ground for Varley's conclusion that another

fault is necessary to account for the extreme weakness of

the signals, but I believe the removal of the fault about
300 miles off, if successfully accomplished, will be suf
ficient to restore the cable to working order. It is chiefly

with reference to anticipations on this score that a more

accurate determination of the resistance of the known
fault is desirable.-- I remain, etc.,
                                                                   W. T.

P.S. --Varley's report   in my opinion, evidence of
                       I
high scientific and practical talent.
                               is,
     Thomson worked on at Valencia, still nursing
                                     I
the unconquerable hope.                      On September 25th he

wrote to Joule --:

     Instead of telegraphic work, which, when has to be
                                                     a
                                                               it
done through 2400 miles of submarine wire, and when
its effects are instantaneous exchange of ideas between

the old and new worlds, possesses                    combination of

physical and (in the original sense of the word) meta
            interest,  w--hiicnhsteadhavoef
physical      pursuit                        never   found in any other
scientific                                    this,
                                                     to which      I  looked

forward with so much pleasure, have had, almost ever

vin  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  379

since I accepted a temporary charge of this station, only
the dull and heartless business of investigating the patho

logy of faults in submerged conductors. A good deal
that I have learned in this time has, I believe, a close

analogy with some curious phenomena you have de
scribed, and which you partially showed me last winter,
regarding intermittent effects of resistance to the passage
of an electric current between two metal plates in a
liquid. . . . On the fourth day after the cable was landed

here, I found that a positive current entering from ten
cells of constant battery fell in the course of a few
minutes to half strength. When the battery was next

suddenly reversed the negative current rose, and remained
after that nearly constant, at about the same degree of
strength as that at which the positive current had com

menced.

     Incidentally, the phenomenon mentioned in the
closing sentences of this letter furnishes the first-
recorded instance of an electric valve which gives
more ready passage to an electric current flowing in
one direction than to a current flowing in the
reverse.

    Thomson also wrote to the Board respecting the
sum granted in May for constructing instruments,
telling that he had personally expended upwards of
^1ooo, and that his three months' absence from
England had entailed on him additional expenses
which he could ill afford.

    By thus remaining at Valencia he missed the
British Association meeting at Leeds, where the
Abbd Moigno addressed to him a letter asking for
the latest news. The reply gives additional facts

at first hand :--

380       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                               CHAP.

                                                      INVERCLOY, Oct. 23, 1858.

My DEAR SIR -- I have only this day received the

copy of Cosmos for the 1/th September, which you were
so good as to address to me. Your letter of the 1 8th

preceded it in reaching me, but both were much delayed,

being forwarded to Glasgow at the conclusion of the

Leeds meeting, thence to Valencia, and from Valencia by

very slow posts to this other island, where I try to escape
from " the cable," and get some rest before recommencing

my professional duties at Glasgow at the beginning of

November. I have endeavoured to lose no time on col

lecting facts to reply ; and I can now assure you that you

were perfectly correct in stating that the 99 words of
the Queen's message had come through the cable in
67 minutes. It is true that the transmission of her

Majesty's message from Valencia to Newfoundland was

very tedious. It occupied 16^ hours in consequence of

the great difficulties experienced at that time by New

foundland in reading. As soon as they had received it

complete, they repeated it back, every word spelled in

full, within a period of 68 minutes, including the initial
" attack " signal and the " finis " signal, without a single

mistake. A word and a half per minute was the common

rate at which messages came from Newfoundland to

Valencia, and it was sometimes considerably exceeded.

A message of as many as 76 words -- a message from

the Directors of the New York, Newfoundland, and

London    Telegraph  CCoommppaannyy--  to the    Directors   of the
Atlantic  Telegraph                    occupied   only 36   minutes

in its transmission from Newfoundland, and was received

correctly at Valencia. Again (August 20), I find a short

message of 1 3 words, containing 60 letters, completed

and read with perfect ease at Valencia within 7 minutes.
While messages were received at so good a speed, and

read so perfectly at Valencia, the greatest difficulty was

experienced in conveying any intelligence whatever to

Newfoundland through the cable, and after the 2Oth

August the rate of half a word a minute had been rarely,

viii THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 381

if ever, attained. On the night preceding that day they

replied in the affirmative to a message from Valencia
directing them to read on " Thomson's galvanometer."

On Saturday the 21stwe learned from them that they

had introduced my instrument. Their message to us
was, " Land galvanometer in circuit. Signals beautiful."

Immediately afterwards we sent them a message of 35
words in 34 minutes, which they understood at once ;
and thenceforward they received with nearly the same

ease as we, never requiring a slower rate from us than

one word per minute. At Valencia, on the night of the

9th of August, when letters and words first began to
come through the cable, I put one of my land galvano

meters into circuit, and called Whitehouse's attention to

its availability as a receiving instrument for Morse signals.

I left next morning for Glasgow and London, and re

turned to Valencia on the 21st, when I found my instru

ment regularly installed, and learned from the clerks that

every message from the beginning [had] been read
on it. During the first two days (the roth and 11th)
Mr. Whitehouse's relay was also in circuit, and several

letters were recorded by  but Mr. W. himself was led
            it

                                     it,

                                                                    1
                                                                        1

                                                             I
to abandon  in consequence of the comparison, and

during the night following the th sent the message,
" Use T.'s galvanometer," which was repeated over and

over again to Newfoundland from day to day, but was

never replied to till the 1pth, after which, as have said,

my instrument came to be used at both ends.

    After repeated trials during the loth and nth, the

use of the induction coils at Valencia was abandoned,

and my battery (the sawdust Daniell's) was brought into
use as the only available means by which intelligible

signals could be conveyed to the other end, and after the

th has been exclusively used, with the exception of
I

     1

          it
                      it
                               is
                                I

                                                                                              a
several further trials of the coils, which confirmed the

previous result Since the failure of the line large

magneto-electric machine of Mr. Henley's has been tried,

but as yet  not known whether with any effect.

From the beginning have always advocated the use of

382 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.                                I

D.'s battery, applied direct to the line, as preferable for
every kind of submarine signalling through a long sub
marine line to induction coils, but Mr. W.'s system
was part of the basis on which the Atlantic Telegraph
Coy. was founded, and he never would be persuaded
that any other system could reach the advantages
he supposed to be derivable from properly constructed
coils. It. appears now that my battery at Newfoundland
has succeeded in conveying a perfectly distinct com
munication (" Daniell's in circuit ") thro" the cable after
a period of seven weeks, during which the coils had not

sent a single word intelligibly. As regards the instru
ments actually used at the two stations, the state of the
case is shortly this. At Valencia the whole work has

been done by my battery and receiving instruments.
Not a single message has been sent otherwise. Every
letter, word, and message that came was read on my
galvanometer. No complete message was received by
the relay, but only trial letters, and a few words or parts
of words. Newfoundland, until the last few days, has

always sent by Whitehouse's coils, and until the begin
ning of September, when the thing failed, we had no diffi
culty in reading their signals. There they used only
their own instruments for reading also, at first, and
scarcely succeeded in reading at all, until they complied
with directions to read on my instruments. They never
succeeded in reading anything on the relay, and all that
they did read before the introduction of my instruments
was, I believe, on a common telegraph galvanometer.

     I have given these details with more minuteness than
would otherwise have been necessary, because I think

you may have seen incorrect statements on the subject,
which appeared in the newspapers during Mr. White-
house's unfortunate discussion with the Board. . . .

     The theory of induction in a submarine conductor led
me, as early as 1854, by the aid of the analysis of your
immortal countryman Fourier, to give a complete mathe
matical expression of the circumstances (Proceedings R.
Society, May 1855). The numerical data which I subse-

vni      THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  383

quently obtained from Weber's measurement of the electric
conductivity of copper in absolute electro-magnetic units,
and his comparison between electro-magnetic and electro
static units, enabled me to estimate the actual amounts
of retardation to be experienced in telegraphing through
2400 miles of just such a cable as has since been con
structed for the Atlantic Telegraph (see my letter in
Athen&um, October 6, 1858), and now confirmed by
observations on the cable both before and after sub

mergence.

    In the bitter polemics in the press between
Whitehouse and the Directors Thomson took no

part until, on October 14th, he wrote (from Arran)
to the Morning Chronicle to correct an opinion

falsely attributed to him as to the position and

nature of the fault in the cable. To this he added a
brief postscript :-- " I refrain for the present from

making any reply to the gross perversions and mis
representations in Mr. Whitehouse's article regard
ing the instruments by which the messages were
received at Valencia. The Directors' statement
requires no defence against his attacks. It is with
the deepest regret that I find myself in any way
compelled to enter personally into this contro

versy."

    On October 25th,  Thomson wrote to his

brother :--

                                                           INVERCLOY, Oct. 25, 1858.

     MY DEAR JAMES -- I got your note at the Gresham,
but was very sorry not to be able to take the opportunity

of going to see you, as we had just time to drive direct
from the hotel to the steamer. As it turned out she did

not sail till three-quarters of an hour after her time, but
we could not trust to that, although if I had known there

384            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                                     CHAP.

would be so much time I should have tried to get you

down to the steamer by a message.

    I need not tell you about doings at Valencia, as you

will have heard enough about it in the newspapers, and

had some details, no doubt, supplied by W. Bottomley.

You would see that after all a message came through last

Wednesday, I rather think it was in reality by no extra

ordinary or unsafe power, but simply by the application

of my battery, which from the beginning, or from before

the beginning, I have always advocated as the best means

of working the telegraph. The chief danger to be appre

hended now from battery power of any brand is, I think,

that it is certain to eat away the wire when it is exposed by

positive currents out through the leak. I have therefore
enforced the use of " negative currents " as much as possible,

that is to say, of such electrical arrangements at both ends

as shall keep the wire throughout negative relatively to

the water and earth beside it. The wire itself would be

preserved indefinitely by this (and might be eaten through

in a few days or weeks by the reverse), but the leak may-

get even worse, whatever we may do. As it
                                                           it                                                          no good

                                                                   is,
work can be expected, believe, from this wire, and the
is
                                                           by lifting as far as the
       if

                          is

                                   it I

                                                       is
best, not the only chance,

fault. The most probable distance to this along the line                                                               it
    254 statute miles; that of the "bank" 242 (also
                                                                                                                            is
measured along the line). The estimate for the fault may
be 15 miles wrong either in excess or defect, and

possible, therefore, that may be found in shallow water.

Margaret has not been so well as she was in summer

The   journey  to  Valencia and                          stay there were  not fortun
      but she       now rather                                            affectionate
ate,                                                     better. -- Your

brother,                                                   W. THOMSON.

    The last spark of life had flickered out from the
cable on October 2Oth. There no doubt that from

the first suffered from defects caused by the dam
age received on board during the storm but its
actual failure was due to Whitehouse's bungling use
          it
                                                     is

                                                                                                                    ;

viii THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 385

of induction coils -- some five feet long--working at

some 2000 volts.

   A year later, when a Departmental Committee l

inquired into the circumstances, Thomson gave
evidence which throws some light on the facts, and

on the self- repression which he exercised during

this trying time. The following are extracts :--

     There was a very great omission in the apparatus on
board in the want of standard resistance coils. I had

urged on the electrician of the Company, as early as the
month of May 1857, the very high importance of having
a set of resistance coils properly made, giving a resistance
at least equal to the resistance of the whole cable, and

admitting of variations to the smallest measurable quan
tity. I urged this strongly, but the electrician of the
Company had his own system of testing, which he con
sidered satisfactory. The great want in our system of

testing was a good constant battery and a set of resist
ance coils. The constant battery I supplied, as far as I

could, from the resources which I, for another reason, had

provided. A sufficient set of resistance coils could not at

the time be extemporised, and, accordingly, much of the

testing was necessarily mere guess work.
     I had the very strongest misgivings as to the condition

of the cable from the Monday forenoon 2 of the laying.

From the handing over of the cable to White

    1 Report of the Joint Committee appointed by the Lords of the Committee
of Privy Council for Trade, and the Atlantic Telegraph Company, to inquire
into the Construction of Submarine Telegraph Cables, together with the
Minutes of Evidence and Appendix, 1861. The members of this Committee
were R. Stephenson, Wheatstone, Fairbairn, and Bidder, for the Board of
Trade ; and Edwin Clark, C. F. Varley, L. Clark, and G. Saward for the

Company.    months  later  Thomson wrote :-- " Those who were   engaged   in

   1 A few

the undertaking were fully convinced that the cable they were laying was in

perfect condition. It was not until rather more than half the cable had been
                                                                When the
laid that signs of defective insulation manifested themselves.
ships had come to anchor on the two sides of the Atlantic, the signals which
passed between them were of so satisfactory a character that none of us had
then any doubt as to the complete and final success of the undertaking."

VOL. I                                                          2C

386 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

house on the forenoon of August 5 till August 9 near
midnight, they never received anything that they
could be quite sure was a signal current On that

night there were good signals ; the first words being
" Please repeat slower." Asked about the under-
running of the cable to the harbour mouth with a
view to the discovery of a supposed fault, Thomson
replied that it had been done " in opposition to the
orders of the Board of Directors, and against my
strongly expressed advice, and during my temporary

absence." After Thomson left Valencia, on August
10, Whitehouse put in his own patented recording
devices, by which there were " some indications of

legible signals recorded, but not one complete
sentence." " I have," said Thomson, " had all the

slips, which were preserved by the Board, to
examine, but these contain very little of the work
of the first four days, the slips corresponding to
those days having been all abstracted from the

possession of the Company. The longest word I
find correctly given is the word ' be.' "

     Official documents show that those slips had been
taken away by Whitehouse in October 1858 from the
office of the Company in the absence of the Secre

tary, and were shown about by him at the Royal
 Institution as the performances of " his " inventions.

     Writing in 1860, in his article "Telegraph,
Electric," in the Encyclopedia Britannica (eighth
edition), Thomson says : " It was only in conse
quence of fallacious interpretation of experiments on
the relative capabilities of ' battery ' and ' induction

viii  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH         387

coils ' that the latter were ever introduced into the

service of the Atlantic Telegraph."  He added the

following note :--

     The induction coils were superseded by Daniell's

battery at Valencia, after a few days' trial through the

rapidly failing line had seemed to prove them incapable
of giving intelligible signals to the Newfoundland station ;

but, owing to the immediate introduction and continued

use of an entirely new kind of receiving instrument -- the

mirror galvanometer, introduced for long submarine

telegraphs by the writer -- at Valencia, the signals from

the Newfoundland coils were found sufficient during the

three weeks of successful working of the cable. It is quite

certain that, with a properly adjusted mirror galvanometer
as receiving instrument at each end, twenty cells of

Daniell's battery would have done all the work that was

done, and at even a high speed, if worked by a key devised

for diminishing inductive embarrassment, according to the
indications of the mathematical theory ; and the writer,

with the knowledge derived from disastrous experience,

has now little doubt but that, if such had been the
arrangement from the beginning, if no induction coils and

no battery power, either positive or negative, exceeding
twenty cells of Daniell's had ever been applied to the
cable since the landing of its ends, imperfect as it then

was, it would be now in full work day and night, with no
prospect or probability of failure.

    In 1863 a very unworthy attempt to revive an

old sore was made by an anonymous article in

The Electrician, vol. iv. p. 109, of July 10, pur
porting to quote a letter of Cyrus Field's of

September 8, 1858, containing a statement that
Thomson's system was " regarded by all practical

telegraphers as perfectly childish." In the issue for
July 17, 1863, p. 132, Thomson replied that this

388  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

alleged letter of Field's was a forgery long ago dis
claimed by Field; and in the number for July 31,
p. 153, Field himself wrote, giving extracts from
the New York Tribune of September 10, 1858, con

taining his repudiation.
     Thomson returned to his winter's work at

Glasgow worn but not disheartened. Scotland
welcomed him with no uncertain voice. Professor
George Wilson of Edinburgh, lecturing on the
Telegraph on November 6th, spoke of Thomson
as the Columbus of this voyage, and compared him
watching the quivering magnet of his galvanometer
on board the Agamemnon with Columbus watching

the compass needle on his ship four centuries

before.

    In acknowledgment of Professor Thomson's
services in connection with the Atlantic Telegraph

a banquet was given to him by his fellow-citizens in
the Queen's Rooms, Glasgow, the Lord Provost in
the chair, on January 2Oth, 1859; Professors
Rankine, Rainy, and others, the Parliamentary

representatives, and many prominent local leaders

being present. The Lord Provost, in proposing
the toast of his health, spoke of the event as a public
proof of the esteem with which he was valued as

Professor in the College, and as the most efficient
scientific promoter of the great Transatlantic under
taking. Professor Thomson had consented, along

with Sir J. Anderson, M.P., and Mr. W. Logic, to act

as Directors representing on the London Board the
Scottish shareholders, and it would not be forgotten

viii  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  389

how considerable a share in the accomplishment of
the great work he had had, as he was the only one
of the Directors who had shared the dangers and
hardships of the expeditions, the last of which had

achieved success amid such universal enthusiasm as

probably was never before called forth by anything
short of a great national victory. He mentioned
how, amongst the messages delivered before the

cable broke down, there was one assuring the

Cunard Company of the safety of the ship Arabia
after collision off the banks of Newfoundland. He
also read letters of regret from Mr. Stuart Wortley,
and from Sir David Brewster, who was prevented
from accepting the invitation to assist " in paying
honour to one of the most distinguished philos

ophers that Scotland has produced, and one to

whom those who are about to quit the field of

labour willingly confide the scientific reputation of
their country."

   Professor Thomson in replying to the toast said :--

     In returning you my thanks for the honour you have done me

this evening, my sense of what I owe to your kindness cannot but

be intensified by the consideration that while in general success
is the criterion which determines the approbation of the world,
you have taken the rare and generous part of attributing merit
to efforts which have resulted in failure. After the harassments
and disappointments of a year, when wealth and labour, care and

anxiety, skill and invention might appear to have been absolutely
thrown away, and to have gone to swell the vast amount of

profitless labour which is done under the sun, it is no small

solace to meet with such sympathy as you now manifest. For

the too generous construction which you have placed on my own

part in these events I thank you with the deepest gratitude. At
the same time, impressed as I am with a sense of the kindness
Iwhich you have shown to me, cannot but be aware that a

390                    LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                               CHAP.

feeling beyond anything personal to myself has influenced you,

and that by your presence here this evening you show an interest

in the great undertaking, animated by a conviction that the

foundation of a real and lasting success is securely laid upon the

ruins which alone are apparent as the results of the work hitherto

accomplished. (Cheers.) Am I right in supposing that you

entertain such a conviction ? That you do entertain and that
                                                                           it it,
you have good reason for entertaining                                 firmly believe. What
            is                                                             a--s chimise;ricimal
has been done can be         it             done again,  as   marvellous
probable, impossible as                     seemed only  six   months ago
                           I it
aenadrliemr --erienlystavnistiaonneaoruys                               ten short years
                                          a                           the Old and the

                                        I of iIt,
                                           as such project seemed
                                            communication between
                       now a fact. It has been attained. What has
New Worlds

been done will be done again. The loss                                a position gained
                                                                                       I
an  event unknown in                    theIfhistorwyillofnmotanb'se  struggle with the        is
    inanimate Nature.                                                 considered that    forces
of                                                                                           am

trespassing on your patience too much, shall endeavour to
explain, in as few words as can, something of the great physical

problem which now stands solved before the world and ready for

application to promote the national, commercial, and social in

terests of the countries on the two sides of the Atlantic. The

difficulties to be overcome in establishing telegraphic communica

tion with America have not been magnified in the popular

imagination. It was indeed among men, the most profoundly

versed in mechanical and electrical science, and men of the

greatest experience nautical, in engineering, and in telegraphic
                             a
enterprises, that those difficulties were considered most formidable.in

The forces tending to break the cable in layinga is                        across an
                                        --                            a
ocean of    s--uchseedmepetdh               even in   the most favourable circumstancesit
of weather                              to   present  an almost insurmountable obstacle
                                                                                      is
to the project. What known of hydrostatics and of the laws                                 it

of fluid friction gave but little encouragement, and to get the

cable laid unbroken in dead calm was about as much as the

most sanguine dared to hope for. But we were not all sure of

  dead calm over the whole Atlantic every day of June. So we
went out, praying for fair weather, to lay the cable. And after
a
       it,
nearly losing in storm, before any attempt could be made to
            a
lay we had as fair weather as could be desired. We did atit
last recognise that promised feature of the Atlantic which so

often, by slight stretch of imagination, compared to a mill-pond.

But smooth sea did not bring safety. The cable, running out
    a

under the most favourable circumstances, broke away once from

the Niagara and once from the Agamemnon. Another time

was quite away from each ship in consequence of sudden and
total loss of electric communication in the part paid out. After

vin THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH 391

laying and losing 500 miles of cable in three successive trials the
ships returned to Queenstown harbour. Permission having been
granted by the Admiralty and the Board of Directors to renew

the attempt, which seemed hopeless to all except those who had

gained the experience by failures, the expedition again put to

sea bound for the mid-ocean rendezvous. On 2gth July the

Agamemnon and Niagara lost sight of one another, steaming west

and east with a thread between them, which was never broken,

and now joins the Old and New Worlds. (Cheers.) Many
important experiments, many exciting incidents, many periods of

intense anxiety, some long intervals scarcely illuminated by a
ray of hope, there were, which can never be forgotten by those
who took part in the operations of the three Atlantic cruises of

the telegraph ships. The raising of the splice from three miles'

depth in the Bay of Biscay was an unparalleled achievement of

nautical mechanics. The Agamemnon, moving round within her

own length, more like a living animal than   a  ship 270 feet long,
did what could scarcely be expected even of     Sir Edmund Lyons'
                                             "

brougham," and during this evolution the passing of the cable

from her stern to her bow, while it hung down with a strain of

more than two tons, completed a performance which is not

marvellous only to those ignorant of the difficulties attending such

manoeuvres. But the story of the Agamemnon at sea has been

so well told by the graphic pen of The Times correspondent that

I need not weary you by a weak repetition of any part of
                                             it
wmhicleeansnnoaotft,cthahebolwheee--vigebhr,etgoarenfftrhatoeinmgfaroloevmeininaJlulutnhdeeinAgthgeatmomemathinnaotnc'oshiol --pheoleldsts.hopuEesaaricnohddit a
I
                                                                a
                                   a                                                it.
day the evil increased, and when the storm began to subside the

precious freight seemed irretrievably ruined. Now      was that

unflinching determination was tested, and Sir Charles Bright and

Mr. Canning had a task before them such as few engineers have

ever had to deal with, and boldly they faced without shadow

of encouragement, except from their own investigations and their

own conclusions as to the state of the unseen part of the cable.

They began their labours while the storm in the hold was still

exhausting its fury on the luckless wire, while the ship was still

rolling so that men could scarcely stand and almost as soon as
the gale had subsided, " the Company's men," assisted;
                                                                   as many
                                                              it by
blue-jackets as could be spared from the still more important work

on deck and aloft, had, not without danger and hard knocks, and

even broken limbs, pulled out from the tangled mass one hundred

miles of cable, weighing as many tons, and deposited in clear

coils, wherever in any part of the ship space and support could

be had for such                       load. By these efforts the cable was saved

392 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

Iand a year gained, believe, if only a year, in the first attainment

of telegraphic communication with America. But looking under

the all ruling Power to human agency, we must regard the skill,

constancy, and unflinching performance of duty manifested by

Captain Preedy, his officers and men, as having saved the ship

and cable and all on board. (Great cheering.) I cannot pass
from the Agamemnon without expressing the sense I entertain of

the value of the assistance and support rendered by Captain

Preedy to the engineers of the Company in some of their most

difficult mechanical operations. The part taken in the actual

Ilaying of the cable by the officers and men under his command

was, believe, the most essential contribution towards the success
which was achieved. The electrical conditions of the grand

problem strike the imagination even more than the mechanical

difficulties thus so perfectly overcome. This line of metal,

stretching away two thousand miles under the Atlantic, must

convey the subtle influence. Touch our European end : a magnet

must instantaneously move in America. Timed repetitions of

the simple signal compose letters, words, and sentences, till ideas

flow through the wire. Astonishing result of science, from which

no degree of familiarity can remove wonder ! The speed with

which these operations may be performed, each giving its own

distinct effect through ordinary land telegraphs suspended on poles

in the air, or the shorter submarine lines, has no limits yet dis

covered; and signals succeeding each other more rapidly than

the hand can send or the eye follow, can be turned to account

by using the proper mechanism at each end. But if " quick as

thought" is an inadequate expression for common telegraphic

operations, even lightning becomes slow through the Atlantic
telegraph. The most sudden electric shock at one end gives a

sluggish, long protracted current through the other which, after a

quarter of a minute, is still working its way feebly out of the
wire. That such would be the action through a telegraphic cable
of ordinary construction, connecting Britain and America, was

pointed out by Faraday long before the existence of the Atlantic
Telegraph Company. An exact mathematical investigation of the

circumstances showed that a sufficiently large - sized conductor

and insulating coat would entirely remedy the anticipated em
              But a cable of such dimensions as the calculations
barrassment.

showed to be required for signalling through two thousand miles
at the rapid rate of our ordinary telegraph would be too unwieldy

and too costly to be thought of in a first attempt. Therefore the
Atlantic Telegraph Company, in adopting the improvement which
I suggested, did not carry it further than to making the quantities
of copper and of gutta-percha in any part of their cable nearly

vin  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  393

double of those in an equal length of any previously constructed

telegraph line, so far at least as their first cable was concerned,

and prudently, in my opinion, they left the further mitigation of

the anticipated slowness to be worked out by improvements in

the methods and instruments to be used for the transmission and

the receipt of messages. When the Niagara and Agamemnon,

bearing the two halves of the cable from Birkenhead and Green

wich, met in Queenstown harbour on 29th July 1857, trials
were made through the whole length of 2500 miles united in
one conducting line, and the most unpalatable warnings of the

mathematical theory were too surely fulfilled to the letter. This

was only what was to be expected, but the result in reality was

most satisfactory.  Messages were transmitted with accuracy

through the whole length by means of instruments constructed

by Mr. Whitehouse for the Company, although not at the rate

anticipated by those who ignored reason and trusted to fallacious

experiments. Even the one word a minute which those trials
seemed to promise is not to be regarded as a small result. Of

what value would not sixty words every hour be, continued night
and day between the Old and New Worlds ? Who can put a

limit to the value of two words transmitted in any two minutes

when an ocean flows between ? It is true that a sevenfold higher

speed had been confidently promised, but that more than one

word a minute was not to be had with the ordinary receiving

instruments was finally learned by trials continued until the ships

left Keyham Dockyard in May 1858. During the last four
weeks of that period a new kind of receiving instrument and a

new mode of working gave promise of a double or triple speed,

and fulfilled theoretical estimates which had been published

before the Atlantic Telegraph Company had commenced their
undertaking. It would be unsuitable to the present occasion

that I should give any minute or detailed statement regarding

different systems of telegraphic operations ; but the general

character of the difficulty at first denied, and the solution at last
brought into practice with reference to the Atlantic Telegraph

will be sufficiently understood if I am allowed to tax your patience

with a few words of explanation. The long continued effect

received at one end, which I have already described as the result

of a sharp signal at the other, when the communication is through

a submarine line of great length and of ordinary lateral dimensions,

renders it necessary that time enough be given from signal to

signal to allow each to show its effect distinctly at the remote

end. Ordinary receiving instruments can only show fresh signals
after being almost perfectly relieved from the residual effects of
previous operations. An instrument capable of distinctly marking

394       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                     CHAP.

a new signal when still under the influence of ten-fold or twenty-

fold accumulations or undischarged residues from currents which

have already told their tale must obviously give a higher speed

of working. It is thus that messages at the rate of two

fully spelled words a minute without a doubtful letter were

received through the submerged and failing cable. Another way
of increasing the speed has been found by making each signal in

such a manner that its effects may subside very rapidly after the

first indication has been received at the remote end. By a

combination of these two principles a considerably more rapid

rate was obtained in the transmission of messages through three
thousand miles of cable on board the ships at Devonport than

afterwards, by the application of the former alone, was realised

between Valencia and Newfoundland. There can be no doubt,

however, but that the combined use of both principles will be

found perfectly practicable whenever a cable in fair condition is

available for telegraphic communication with America. But I

have forgotten how little these facts and these anticipations can

interest you when no Atlantic cable exists from which useful

work can be reasonably expected. When approaching Valencia
on board the Agamemnon the last critical operation of changing

from coil to coil was made, and the bight of cable came up easily
and straightened itself quietly till the rope began running out

with perfect smoothness in its new course through the ship.
The enthusiastic clapping of hands and the three hearty cheers

which resounded on all sides from the crowd of sailors and

marines standing round anticipated the expressions of feeling
which the electric nerves of Europe and America called forth on

the following day, the ever memorable 5th of August 1858.
(Cheers.) How much pleasure would have been lost if it had
been known that             the znd of     Sep"tePmrubdeernsthfeutucraiblteemfoprorailsl
practical purposes   after  be worthless.
                    would

exitum ; caliginosa nocte premit Deus." The bewildering feeling
of having done that which the sanguine scarcely hoped to do,

and which nobody on shore considered possible ; the excitement
of bringing the end to land, and the delight of seeing the first

words thrown from the needle in the Valencia instrument room --
though these were only, "Please repeat slower" -- were soon

followed by the most harrowing anxiety. The signals had been

becoming   very weak and    cvoamguee--dsuorimnguchthesodatyhsat  preceding that
on which  words began to                                            the Niagara's

end run short and landed somewhere without battery or instru

ments was the only explanation suggested to obviate the conclusion
that the insulation of the cable, which the tests had shown to be

imperfect during the three days before the landing, must be

vm  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  395

rapidly deteriorating. When the signal currents came only one-
thousandth of the strength which the battery power employed
would have sent through a well-insulated line of the same length,

they became lost in the earth currents ; and disturbances owing to

chemical action at the leak, and vague fluctuations of the needle

(watched day and night by weary eyes in the now cheerless station-
house at Valencia and the dismal swamp at the head of Bull's

Arm Bay), never even told whether electrical tides were ruled

by the moon or sun. Sooner or later we all believe another
Atlantic cable will be laid, but will it last any longer? Will it

do any more work than the one which has raised and cast down
so many hopes? Will another experiment be another gigantic
failure? And will material locomotion be again fallen back
upon as the only means of communication between the Old and
New Worlds ? That the next trial will not be a failure no man

living can say is more than probable ; although on no one point

can it be said that there is any insurmountable difficulty, and
least of all on that which has proved the cause of ruin in the

present case. Increased caution in the manufacture and preser

vation, even without improvements in the material of the insulating
cover, with a more searching system of detection for faults, might,

I believe, make very sure against any recurrences of such a

failure. The great risk which the enterprise undeniably involves

depends not on any one source of danger, but on the multiplied
chances of accident inseparable from the exposure of so great a
length of cable to so great a variety of contingencies. You have

spoken of the sacrifices I made to give my assistance in the
undertaking. If I have made sacrifices, so have all the Atlantic

Telegraph Company. The cheerful and uncomplaining spirit
with which an apparently total loss of interest and capital has
been met by the subscribers to the Atlantic Telegraph most
forcibly demonstrates the high character of the motives with which

they have entered upon an undertaking of which the success

would have been of such large benefit to mankind. It is true

that sacrifices have been made by those who have been most

closely connected with the work. I shall always esteem it as an
honour to have belonged to the Board of Directors, and in this

capacity to have acted along with men who have devoted them
selves with so much earnestness and at so great personal sacrifices
to carry into execution a project of such high national importance.
Under circumstances of the greatest discouragement the Directors

have persevered with an untiring energy and undaunted resolution
worthy of the great enterprise. Many among them continue day
after day, and month after month, sacrificing their own conveni

ence and setting aside their own business avocations to promote

396  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP, vm

the interests of the Company. The unremitting daily attention
given by the Executive Committee, the zealous co-operation of
the general manager, Mr. Cyrus W. Field, and the able and
energetic services of the secretary, Mr. Saward, may well be re
membered with gratitude both now and when the final and
complete success is attained. Nor in speaking of an undertaking

in which all mankind are interested, would I omit to claim for

our own city its contribution to the general resources ; to the
assistance of students of the University of Glasgow, and to the
high ability and energy of Glasgow instrument makers, by whom
scientific principles, novel in conception, were understood and
carried out with extraordinary promptitude, we are indebted for
the realisation of ideas which, without the aid of the practical
element, must have remained powerless to achieve material re
sults. In conclusion, Professor Thomson again returned thanks

for the honour which they had done him. It was an honour

which he did not expect, and which he did not think he was
entitled to receive. The learned Professor sat down amid loud

cheering. --From the " Glasgow Herald" list January 1859.

     " That is a noble speech of William Thomson's,

so like himself. I have sent it to Thackeray. You

may well be all proud of him." So wrote Dr. John
Brown to James Crum, on January 24. What

Thackeray's comment was is unknown ; but we have

heard already, p. 324, what a high opinion of Thom

son he entertained.

      CHAPTER IX

      STRENUOUS YEARS

NOT even the absorbing interests of the Atlantic

cable could withdraw Thomson from studies of a

more abstract nature or from his laboratory work.

^ 2 In April 1857 an exceedingly interesting discus
       sion arose at the Institution of Civil Engineers upon
       a paper by Mr. Robert Hunt on " Electromagnetism

as a Motive Power." In this paper the possibility
of economically driving electromagnetic engines --
      electric motors --by currents derived from
that  is,
                    i
                              a

                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                                                    1
voltaic batteries, was discussed in the light of

Jacobi's discovery of the counter-electromotive force
in these machines, and of Joule and Scoresby's
measurements of the mechanical equivalents of the

battery power. Using Daniell's cells, they had

found that for every grain of zinc consumed in the

battery the motor performed a duty equivalent to

raising 80 Ibs. foot high against gravity. In the

Cornish engine, doing its best duty, grain of coal

was equivalent to duty of raising 143 Ibs. foot

high. Putting the price of zinc at ^35 per ton, as
£icompared with coal at less than
                                   per ton, he

argued that electric power would be about 60 times

      397

398  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

as dear as steam power, and concluded that it would

be far more economical to burn the zinc under a

boiler, and use it for generating "steam" power, than
to consume zinc in a battery for generating " electro
magnetic " power. The debate which followed, and
in which Grove, Tyndall, Smee, Bidder, and Robert
Stephenson took part, makes strange reading now.
One and all, these most eminent leaders con

demned the idea of electric motive power as unprac

tical, and impossible commercially. To the debate

Thomson sent a contribution in writing, which
shows that he, at least, understood the true theory
of electric motors, and knew that their intrinsic
efficiency might far exceed that of the best thermal
engines. He set forth in their proper bearing the

results of Joule and Scoresby, and ended thus :--

     These facts are of the highest importance in estimating
the applicability of electromagnetism, as a motive power,

in practice ; and, indeed, the researches alluded to render
the theory of the duty of electromagnetic engines as com
plete as that of the duty of water-wheels is generally
admitted to be. Among other conclusions which may be
drawn from these experiments is this : that, until some
mode is found of producing electricity as many times
cheaper than that of an ordinary galvanic battery as coal

is cheaper than zinc, electromagnetic engines cannot super
sede the steam-engine.

    In other words, Faraday's great discovery of
1831 notwithstanding, the real significance of the

dynamo had not yet dawned upon the keenest
minds of the time ; and the most Thomson could
say was that until some such source of electric

ix  STRENUOUS YEARS  399

supply was available there could be no economical

use of electric motors.

    In June 1857 Thomson read to the Royal Society
a note on the alterations of temperature accompany

ing changes of pressure in fluids, and in January 1858
some remarks on the interior melting of ice. This

was followed in February by a third, on the thermal

effect of drawing out a film of liquid, and in April

a fourth on the stratification of ice by pressure.
    As a result, perhaps, of his visit to Dellmann, he

paid much attention to the electricity of the atmos

phere, a subject on which he had already worked

with Joule. He devised an improved collector of

atmospheric electricity, which he described in a

letter to Helmholtz.

                                                         LARGS, January 2, 1859.

    MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I was very sorry by your

last letter to have so bad an account of your wife's
health. I can fully sympathise with you in your anxiety.
Mrs. Thomson wishes to be kindly remembered to you,
and bids me say she has felt for you very much in this
trial, and hopes that you have now less cause for anxiety.

     The information you gave me regarding Kirchhoff's
investigation of solar chemistry interested me greatly. I
 had just the week before been telling my students how
other ingredients of the solar atmosphere besides sodium,
 which was already proved, were to be tested, and I there
 fore took your letter with me to my lecture and read the
 part of it which had reference to that subject. I enclose
 a memorandum of ideas I have had as to solar and stellar
 chemistry from a conversation I had with Stokes a long
time ago, which you may perhaps think it worth while to
 show to Professor Kirchhoff.

     My water-dropping collector, or more properly discharger

 for atmospheric observation has led me naturally to a

4OO  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

self-acting condenser, in which electrified drops of water

give up their electricity to an insulated metal funnel upon

which they fall in a fine spray. This funnel is attached

to a metal tube open below, as shown at the bottom of
the sketch, so that large drops falling from the mouth of

the funnel are each as much as possible quite unelectrified,

           even although a considerable charge

-.H may have accumulated on the outer
                              surface of the funnel and tube. The

           fine drops originate in a stream

           issuing from a small aperture B at
           the end of a tapering tube A. An

           insulated tube CDEF surrounding

           this stream fixes by " induction " the

           electrical condition of the stream and

           drops breaking from it. Thus if the
           tube AB proceed from an uninsulated
     .t.t  cistern, and if the metal of CDEF be

           the same as that of AB, an extremely

           minute charge of electricity communi
           cated to this insulated inductor of

           which CDEF is a part, gives rise

           to a continued accumulation of the

                               opposite kind of electricity on the

lower insulated conductor. If this last be tested with

my divided ring electrometer, a very strong effect is shown

when -j^ of the electromotive force of a single element
of Daniell's battery is applied to maintain a difference of
potentials between G and H connected respectively with

Ifthe tapering tube and the wide tube surrounding it.

on the other hand a metallic connection between G and H
be established, and if A B be a different metal (say copper)
from CDEF (zinc), the electrometer shows strong negative.

     I have been greatly troubled in these experiments by
phenomena of " polarisation," of which as yet I cannot
make much, and I have been forced, too, into very difficult

considerations regarding Volta's fundamental experiments.

I hope for more light soon, as I have been much perplexed.

Of one thing, however, I have I believe perfect experi-

ix          STRENUOUS YEARS                              401

mental evidence, that a vitreously electrified body in the

air over a metallic mass of zinc and copper, in contact

with one another, experiences a     ..,,.,.*: *"v  Zinc  )
force tending on the whole from
                                    P°Ei"fe 1
the zinc and towards the copper. C

From this it follows, as indeed

from Volta's experiment, that a sheet of zinc and a sheet

of copper parallel to one another and      "*> Zmc
                                             > Co er
fconnected by a metallic arc, attract one

another ; and when we understand the V

whole sufficiently I believe we shall see

it simply as chemical affinity (another word for electric
force) acting at a distance.

    I shall be glad to hear from you again when you
have time to write, and I hope you will have a much

better account to give of your wife's health.-- Believe me,

yours always truly,              WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Thomson was not present at the British Associa
tion meeting of 1858, but at that of 1859 at Aberdeen
he read two papers on atmospheric electricity : one
on the false discharge from a coiled cable, and
another on the periodical variations of underground
temperature. He had hoped that Helmholtz would

have come, and wrote to invite him :--

                                               BlRKENSHAW COTTAGE, GLASGOW,
                                                         May 12, 1859.

    MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- At the request of Mr. James

Crum, an uncle of my wife's, I write to ask if you will take

up your quarters in his house during the approaching

meeting of the British Association to be held at Aberdeen.

It is anticipated that it will be a very good meeting, because

the Queen and Prince Albert are to be present. Un

fortunately, for the same reason the time cannot be pre

cisely fixed yet, but it will in all probability be the middle

of August or at the end of September, which I think would

suit your University vacation. I hope you may be induced

    VOL. I                                     2D

402            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                  CHAP.

to come, as it is a long time since we have met, and there

will be much interesting matter for conversation between

us. If Mrs. Thomson is feeling well enough at the time

she will accompany me, but in any case I hope you will

give us a visit in Arran before or after the meeting.

     On my return from Valencia last October I found a

copy of your     paper on rotatory motion in fluids you             it,
were so good     as to send me, which I read with very
great interest.
                  I intended to write to you regarding

but fell into the vortex of my winter's work before doing

so, and have had little chance to think or to put pen to

paper on any subject except that of the day from that

time till this. As hope there now prospect of seeing
                 II
                             I

                                   I

                                             is
                                                               a
                                                                 a
you before long shall keep the discussion of the Ring-

Wirbelfaden till then.

     Since this time last year have managed little in the

way of experimenting, except in connection with tele

graphic instruments, and have now got set of marine

and land reflection galvanometers and resistance standards,

which will very much shorten work in various more purely

scientific investigations which hope now to be able to
I
proceed with.if  think you would feel some interest in

                        I

                         I

                                            a

                             J.

                                          I
                                               I

                                                  I
some of those instruments, which shall be happy to

show you       you come, although                  do not mention them

now as even the smallest inducement.

        shall be obliged by line from you at your convenience

to enable me to reply to Mr. Crum. If you write next

week address care of Dr. P. Joule, Oakfield, Moss Side,

Manchester, where shall be till about the end of the

month to experiment on the thermal effect of air in

motion. -- Believe me, yours always truly,
                                               WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Unfortunately Helmholtz was kept at home by the

illness of his wife. Joule was present, and experi
mented with Thomson on atmospheric electricity on
the Links. After the meeting Thomson wrote

again --
     :

«  STRENUOUS YEARS                                   403

                                 INVERCLOY, ISLE OF ARRAN,

                                                                             Oct. 6, 1859.

   MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- We looked forward with

much pleasure to seeing you here a month ago, and were

disappointed on receiving your letter of the 3Oth Aug.
to find that you were prevented from carrying out your

intention. I hope by this time you have a better account
to give regarding the health of your wife.

   We should have had a strong scientific party in Mr.

Crum's house at Aberdeen if you had been with us. We

had Faraday, Joule, and Thomas Graham, besides my

father-in-law, who is known as a chemist. The meeting

"went off" on the whole very well. It was unusually

large, owing no doubt to the attraction of the Prince as

President. There was a great press to hear his opening
address, and for the first time, I believe, in the history of

the Association the issuing of tickets had to be stopped

in consequence of insufficient accommodation. Upwards
of two thousand, I believe, were present. The address

was in general very much approved of, and seemed to be

quite original. I     succeeded  in getting     the  subject of
electric observation   taken up  effectively         least in a
                                              -- at

manner which I hope will prove effective. I have been

appointed a " committee " to prepare self-recording instru

ments which are to be set up and used at the Kew

meteorological observatory, and I hope very soon to

have the system in action. I have now got an extremely

simple collector, and have tried it at the window of the
house here, with perfectly satisfactory effect. It consists

of an insulated can of water inside the house, discharging

by a fine orifice at the end of a thin tube projecting about

a yard from the wall. The effect is in about 20 sec. (or
in a much shorter time when a higher head of water and
a small aperture are used) to reduce the " potential " of the
whole insulated conductor, including the electrometer, to

(sensibly) the same as the atmospheric potential at the

point where the stream of water breaks into drops. The
amount which I have found since yesterday has varied

from about 35 to 70, the unit being a single zinc-copper

404 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

water cell. If the weather permits I hope in a few days

to have simultaneous observations made by the fixed

apparatus here, and a portable apparatus at various points
on the hills, with a view to examining the influence of

electrified clouds or masses of air in the vicinity.

     The pressure of work connected with the Association
(from which I only got free two days ago), and the time
taken up by have prevented me from sooner writing to
               I

                   3. it,

                                                          I
                                                                             II
you in reply to your question regarding Stokes' investiga
tion of effects of friction on the motion of fluids. Stokes

was not at the meeting, being away in the south of

Ireland for the sake of his health.  have, however,

written to him for full information such as you desire.
wish he may be able to send you separate copies of his

papers, but fear he will have given all away before this
time. His first paper on the subject, entitled " On the

Friction of Fluids and Motion and the Equilibrium and

Motion of elastic Solids," was read at the Cambridge
Philosophical Society, April 14, 1845, and was un

fortunately buried in the Transactions of that society,
                 It contains the hydrodynamical equa
vol. viii. part

tions with friction taken into account, which, so far as

can recollect, are identical with those you have found.

     His second paper on the same subject was published
some years later in the Transactions of either the Camb.

Phil. Soc. or the Royal Society, probably the former,
from your not having been able to meet with it. It

contains solutions of the equations for various practical

cases, especially the motion of  ball pendulum and the
descent of a globule of water    particle of cloud, for
                                 (a a
                                                          a

instance) through air. By the former application he
                 believe perfectly) the discrepancies which
explains  (I

experiments on pendulums by Bailey and others showed

from the ordinary hydrostatical and hydrodynamic theory.

In the latter application he justifies perfectly the idea

generally entertained regarding the support of clouds.
If Stokes has no copy to send you, and
                                     I                       his
                                               if
paper does not otherwise fall in your way, shall send

you some extracts, should you wish to have particular

ix                  STRENUOUS YEARS                                                                 405

information, especially as to the numerical value of the

coeff ' of frictn- in air or water.

    I wish you would send me a short account of your

investigation of vowel sounds for publication either in the

Proceedings of the Manchester Literary and Philosophical

Society, from which it would be copied in the Philosophical
                                             Sitoccioertrye,ctLloyndtroann.slateIfd.y--ouYoseunrds
Magazine or   for   the Royal
it in German        shall have
               I

very truly,                                          W. THOMSON.

    Mrs. Helmholtz died on December 28,                                                             and
Thomson on receipt of the news addressed                                                            con
dolences in the following letter :--

                                                       GLASGOW, Jan. 22, 1860.

    MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I was very much grieved to

learn of the great loss you have suffered. Mrs. Thomson

begs to join with me in expressing deepest sympathy.

We were not unmindful of your anxiety, as you will see

by the letter which I enclose. I had written it at Largs

and brought it up to Glasgow with me to post, when I

was much shocked to find waiting my arrival the intima

tion you had sent me. I would not send it to you now

to trouble you when your mind must be so painfully

occupied, but I wish you to know that I did not neglect

the short  lpeettreiro.d--oBf elleieisvuere   I had  to write in reply                 to your
previous                                              dear Helmholtz,                  always
                                             me, my

yours sincerely,                                     WILLIAM THOMSON.

    One of the recurring scares of foreign invasion

led in the autumn of 1859 to the Volunteer Rifle
Corps movement. It found in Thomson an enthusi

astic supporter,1 and a College Company was raised

in the original corps of the 1st Lanarkshire Volun

teers in 1860. Rankine was captain of the 1st

   1 " That was in  the days   of what       Lord    Patlimmeer.s"to--n Pocpaulleladr  the ' rifle  fever,'
Iand was touched     a little  with it                                                 Lectures,    vol. i.
                                             at the

p. 448.

406  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Company and Thomson of the and Company. He

took an active part until the accident which befell
him at Christmas (see p. 412), and which left him
permanently lame. His resignation he used to

relate in the following terms :--
    " It was this way, you know. I was all right

standing at ease and at manual exercises, but when
it came to evolutions, the more the officer com

manding ordered us to 'march,' the more I 'halted.'
So I resigned."

    In 1863 a new battalion was formed, and Thom
son was elected captain of the 1st Company of the

2nd Battalion, and held that rank till he resigned

in May 1867.
    Years afterwards, on the formation of the

Volunteer Corps of Electrical Engineers (Royal
Engineers) in 1897, Lord Kelvin accepted the
position of Honorary Colonel.

    That winter Thomson read several papers to the

Glasgow Philosophical Society, and early in 1860

communicated two important papers to the Royal
Society. One of these was on the " Measurement
of the Electrostatic Force produced by a Daniell's
Battery." Using one of his own absolute electro

meters he weighed the mutual attraction exerted

between the two metal plates connected to the
respective poles of the battery, finding 3-57 (later
corrected to 5-7) grammes as the equivalent force
of the two plates, each a square decimetre in area,

and one millimetre apart, when charged by 1000

Daniell's cells. The other paper was on the

ix              STRENUOUS YEARS                         407

" Electro-motive Force required to produce a Spark
                                    "
in Air between  two  Metal  Plates      ;  the  result  was

that to produce a spark between plates at ^ of a

centimetre apart would require a battery of 5510
Daniell's cells.

    For some five years Thomson had been devising

electrometers of various patterns, and had applied

them to the study of atmospheric electricity. In

October 1859 he had written to Joule describing

the early instrument known as the divided ring

electrometer -- a forerunner of the more sensitive
quadrant instrument --and a water-dropping collector

for observation of the state of electrification of the

atmosphere. He also mentioned a portable electro

meter which he had taken to the top of Goatfell

to get readings to compare with those at Invercloy

(Brodick) at the foot of the mountain. He was
invited to lecture on the subject at the Royal

Institution, and gave the Friday evening discourse

on May 18, 1860.

    The following note of May 14 shows him pre

paring :--

                                           LABORATORY R.I., Monday 4 P.M.

    MY DEAR FARADAY -- Many thanks for your kind
note. I hope by Wednesday to be ready with my

instruments, and when you come I shall have to ask

your advice on many points connected with the arrange

ments for my lecture.

    With Anderson's assistance I have been at work all
day putting up one of my electrometers, and I shall

probably have nearly as much work to-morrow with

another. I find a great deal of trouble in making the

glass fibre suspension, having very little skill of hand, so

4o8            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                           CHAP.

that what   would be   anedasytroaunbdles. --horBt eltioeveothmeres,  costs  me a
great deal   of time                                                  yours  very

truly,                 WILLIAM THOMSON.

    In this lecture he gave a popular account of his
instruments and the results of observations. The
peroration of this lecture, which was in praise of
Faraday's conceptions of the nature of electric

forces, was striking and suggestive.

Earlier in the year Forbes had retired from the

Edinburgh chair of Natural Philosophy, and after

some delay Tait was appointed to succeed him.

This event led to the subsequent collaboration of

Thomson and Tait in their famous Treatise.                                   The
following letter alludes to the occurrence :--

                       GLASGOW, Feb. 14, 1860.

MY DEAR JAMES -- Did I tell you that a Mr. F.

Jenkin, whose experiments on cables were communicated

to the British Association, has joined me in my patent, I

having assigned him a charge, and that we have made

joint proposals to the Red Sea Directors which I think

have a good chance of being accepted ? I am still

working hard at the electrometer, and I hope at last have

something convenient for general use.

     I expected to see Prof. Tait before this on his way
to or from Edinburgh. I was very much disgusted, but

not excessively annoyed, to hear the other day that it is

supposed a Mr. S       (a mere nobody) has a good chance

for the chair  vacated by Forbes.  I hope,   however, this
is not true.   Margaret is on the  whole
                                            better. --Your

affectionate brother,  WILLIAM THOMSON.

In R. L. Stevenson's Memoir of Fleeming

ix               STRENUOUS YEARS                                         409

Jenkin,1 p. civ., there is a note contributed by Sir
William Thomson narrating how in the beginning
of 1859 Lewis Gordon came to Glasgow to see
Thomson's cable instruments, and said to him, " I

would like to show this to a young man of remark
able ability at present engaged in our works at
Birkenhead." " Fleeming Jenkin was accordingly
telegraphed for, and appeared next morning in
Glasgow. He remained for a week, spending the

whole day in my class-room and laboratory, and

thus pleasantly began our life-long acquaintance.
. . . When he returned from Glasgow to Birken
head a correspondence commenced between us,
which was continued without intermission up to the
last days of his life. . . . He was the very first to

introduce systematically into practice the grand
system of absolute measurement founded in Germany
by Gauss and Weber."

    Thomson was still at times occupied with

thermodynamics; and in June 1860, with Joule,
communicated to the Royal Society two papers on
the " Thermal Effects of Fluids in Motion."

    At the British Association meeting in June 1860,

at Oxford (memorable for the famous encounter

    1 " It was at this time besides that he made the acquaintance of Professor,
now Sir William, Thomson. To describe the part played by these two in each

other's lives would lie out of my way. They worked together on the Com

mittee on Electrical Standards ; they served together at the laying down or

repair of many deep-sea cables ; and Sir William was regarded by Fleeming,
not only with the ' worship ' (the word is his own) due to great scientific gifts,
but with an ardour of personal friendship not frequently excelled. To their

association Fleeming brought the valuable element of a practical understand

Iing ; but he never thought or spoke of himself when Sir William was in
question ;  and     recall, quite in his last days, a singular instance  of this modest
loyalty to  one
                 whom he admired and loved." -- Memoir, p. Ixi.

410  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

where Huxley met -- and silenced --Wilberforce with

his famous argumenium ad episcopwn), Thomson
had some further notes on atmospheric electricity,
recounting extended observations made by students
in his laboratory. Amongst other points noted
was that the steam from the funnel of a locomotive
engine is always negatively, while that escaping
from the safety-valve is always positively electrified.
He had been writing just before to Faraday on his
observations.

                                                            THORNLIEBANK, GLASGOW,

                                                              June 12, 1860.

    MY DEAR FARADAY -- The insurance trial regarding the

Atlantic Telegraph, for which I expected to be summoned
to London before this time, has been put off until the
end of the month, and I expect to be required to attend
between the 2 5 th and the 1 st of July. I shall call to see
you if you are in London, and to ask if you are disposed
to come out to Kew along with me, where I shall have to

go to look after the recording atmospheric electrometer.

I have made several attempts to discover, if possible,
indications of electric force in the air over the surface

of two liquids, such as sulphate of zinc and sulphate of

copper, separated by a porous partition, but as yet with
no result. I think there must be something to be found ;

and probably strong in such a case as caustic potash and
nitric acid, since these two liquids when substituted for
acidulated water next the zinc and platinum of a galvanic

element increase its electro-motive force very largely. I

yesterday had an opportunity of observing something with
my portable electrometer during thunder. No lightning

was visible, but I could perceive the instants of the

discharges that gave rise to audible sound by sudden
motions of the needle. The thunder came about 20

seconds later than an impulse of this kind, several times,

from which I judged that it was about 5 miles distant.

ix           STRENUOUS YEARS                                         411

The motion of the needle was more sudden than that

which takes place when the conductor with the match

burning is suddenly insulated. When this is done the

needle gradually deflects without vibration, and shows

nearly the full effect in 5 or 6 seconds. The changes
yesterday were so sudden as to leave the needle vibrating,

and were therefore inductive beginnings of the electric

change in the conductor which the burning match com

pletes. Besides the larger impulses which I was able to

connect with the thunder, there was a constant flickering

of the needle, which seemed to show that between flash

and flash sufficient to make audible thunder, there were

countless smaller discharges. On a small scale the same

thing is produced and is indicated by the needle in the

same way when shreds or fibre assist disruption of the air

in any "field of electric force" in connection with experi

mental apparatus.

    The ordinary atmospheric changes, although sometimes

very rapid, for instance doubling the force in a minute or

less, are not instantaneous, and show their effect by a

gradual motion of the needle without vibrations. It seems

certain that such changes are produced by motions of

electrified  air,  while    those I    o--bseBrevleiedve  yesterday  must
have been     due    to                                      me, my  dear
                          discharges.

Faraday, ever truly yours,             WILLIAM THOMSON.

    In this year, too, Thomson wrote for Nichol's
Cyclopedia several articles on " Atmospheric Elec
tricity," "Velocity of Electricity," "Telegraph," and
" Thermomagnetism."

     Helmholtz visited Thomson again in Arran in

August 1860.

    With the close of the year came a great disaster.
Thomson, who, while staying at Largs, engaged
in the favourite pastime of " curling " on the ice,

412  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

had the misfortune to fall and break his left leg.

This was on Saturday, December 22, 1860. There

was some doubt at first whether there was actual

fracture or not, and not till the following Friday,
after a visit from Dr. Syme of Edinburgh, and
removal of the sufferer to another house, was the
leg finally set. He was in great suffering, and for
some days under continual opiates. The following

letter from Mrs. Thomson narrates the events :--

                                             nAUCHINEAN, LARGS,

                                                                        Jan. 1 86 1.

    MY DEAR PROFESSOR HELMHOLTZ -- I am sure you

will be surprised when you read the date of this letter,
and I indeed little expected to be here at this time.
We are detained by a most unfortunate accident which
happened to Mr. Thomson three weeks ago to-morrow.
He came down here on the 2 1 st to spend the Xmas
holidays with our friends Mr. and Mrs. Lang, I having

come down a week sooner. On the 22nd he went to a

frozen pond a mile or two distant to curl along with some
friends. They were very late of returning, and at last
Mr. Lang came to tell us my husband had fallen and

hurt himself, but would soon be home. He was standing
on a board underneath which was a narrow piece of wood,

the board swung round with him and he was thrown with
great violence on the ice. He attempted to rise, but fell

again immediately, and had to be carried home in great

pain. It was necessary to give him chloroform in order

to examine the limb, after doing which Dr. Kirkwood
concluded there was fracture of the neck of the thigh
bone, but wished to have further advice. We sent to

Glasgow for the professor of surgery, but he being in
London another physician came. Chloroform was again
administered, and the opinion of the Glasgow doctor was

that there was not fracture, and that we were to continue

fomenting with hot water cloths. It was not till a week

ix  STRENUOUS YEARS                                  413

after the accident that Dr. Kirkwood (who is very skilful)
told me that he had thought all along that there was

fracture, and was still more convinced that it was so, also

that it was high time that the limb should be set, as he

added that frequent lameness was the consequence of this

fracture, and also as it would lay Mr. Thomson up eight

weeks from his class (shd. it be set for fracture).  We
decided on having Professor Syme from Edinb.         He

would not say decidedly  whether there was fracture, but
said it must be treated
                         as such-- the injury being very

severe. Being most unwilling to subject Mr. and Mrs.

Lang to the penalties of a long illness in their house, we

had this one (my father's) prepared, and my husband was

moved over on a litter, after which his limb was set with
" the long splints," and there he must remain for several

weeks. He never showed any tendency to fever, but

suffered much from the effects of the chloroform, of which

it required very large doses to make him insensible. He

suffers much uneasiness and considerable pain. The pain
caused by setting the limb was very great. It was found

to be an inch and a half shorter than the other, and had

to be stretched out to the same length. Our chief anxiety

is as to whether bad effects will be left. Some physicians
are of opinion that " boney union " never takes place at

the part where this injury is (I am told the blow was on

the apex of the trochanter major), but then this is an

injury that seldom happens except to old people. . . .

I fear there is considerable risk of shortening of the limb,

and I shall be very uneasy till he is able to use his limbs

again, when I hope all may be found right. I do not

think we shall be here less than 3 months. William was
very unhappy until something was settled about carrying

on his class. Two of the professors have undertaken to

divide the work, and he has slept better since this anxiety

was removed. They kindly came here and discussed

what was to be done with him. He is in a very helpless

position, and cannot even raise his head, but he is very

patient and bears it wonderfully. We have got a nurse

to attend upon him through the nights, and my sister

414  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                CHAP.

...Elizabeth is with me. Jessie came the first fortnight as
Mary had a cold.  I have written to you minutely as

you understand these subjects. W"'. bids me say he was

just about to write to you before this happened, to tell

you he had read yr. paper with experiments to the Philo

sophical Society, and that it had excited much interest

and been listened to most attentively.

    Helmholtz, replying on January 16 to Mrs.
Thomson, to express his sympathy with the sufferer,
sends him messages about his own work :--

    I have penetrated a  long way into the Theory ot
Music with my physical
                         theories -- much farther than I
dared to hope at the outset -- and the work has amused

me considerably. In developing the consequences of any

valid general principle in individual cases, one constantly

comes on new and quite unexpected surprises. And as

the consequences are not arbitrary, nor contingent on the

caprice of the author, but develop according to their own

laws, I often have the impression that it is not my own

work that I am writing out, but some one else's. Mr.

Thomson must have found the same thing in his own

work on the mechanical theory of heat.

On February 21, Mrs. Thomson again wrote to

acknowledge a letter in which Helmholtz had

announced his impending marriage with Anna von
                                        She added :--
Mohl, and to send congratulations.

     Mr. Thomson has made little apparent progress since
I last wrote to you. . . .

    I begin to fear that he will not be able to return to his

work this Session. He eats and sleeps pretty well, but

is exceedingly thin, and is easily fatigued by any mental

exertion.

    It was at this time, when compelled for many

weeks to lie on his back, that Thomson began to use

ix  STRENUOUS YEARS                         415

the famous green-backed note-books which ever

afterwards he carried about with him. They were

of quarto size, with detachable leaves.- In these, in

all odd moments, when travelling or waiting for a

train, he would jot down as they occurred to him

suggestions for experiments, calculations, diagrams,

draft paragraphs of scientific papers, all dated

punctiliously, and often cross-referenced.  His

green-book became his inseparable companion, and

the series now preserved of over one hundred

volumes is a witness to the extraordinary fertility

and bewildering variety of his genius.

    One of the first letters he wrote --a long pencil
scrawl --was to his sister.

                                                              AUCHINEAN, LARGS,
                                                 AYRSHIRE, January 28, 1861.

   MY DEAR ELIZABETH -- I have been keeping in a very

uniform state since you heard last, and do not expect to
have any news of my progress to communicate for some
time yet. The object of the splint is to protect the joint

as perfectly as possible from motion, and there is nothing

for it but to wait the required time to allow the union to
take place. Dr. Kirkwood is most attentive and un
remitting. He comes every morning and evening to see

that all is going right, and to readjust the splint if it has

shifted at all. Once a week he takes it down completely

and sponges the limb, which has just been done to-day
and given me great relief. Since the last time I had

suffered a great deal of uneasiness occasionally, but I feel
now as if I were not likely to be troubled so again soon.

My general health has been very satisfactory, and all the
circumstances have been as favourable as possible. At
best, however, my recovery must be rather slow, and I
have no hope held out of being able to return to Glasgow
and take up work again till some time in March. It has

416  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                     CHAP.

been a great relief to me to have my class in such good

hands in my absence.

Margaret has been sometimes very well, and able to

walk much more and with greater ease than ever since her

illness. At other times she has been not so well, and has

suffered a good deal of pain and uneasiness. . . . She

however, feeling better to-day and                                                           out having
a is,

                   I

                                                                                 is
   walk which hope will not prove too much for her.

All the work she has had for me, and the writing of

letters, and attending to troublesome business, done with

so much difficulty by post, have been very severe. --Your

affect, brother,                                                                             W. T.

At Easter, 1861, Helmholtz went to London to

give two lectures at the Royal Institution on the

Physiological Theory of Music. Faraday induced

him to give also a Friday evening discourse on
" The Application of the Law of Conservation of

Force to Organic Nature." Thomson, who was

now beginning to limp on crutches, wanted Helm

holtz to come to Largs, but he was not able.                                                        On

April 4th, Mrs. Thomson wrote --
     is
                          I

                                                                                          :
     William desires me to say he wishes he could have

been present at your lectures both for pleasure and
instruction. Also am to ask your opinion about apply
ing electricity to his limb. Dr. Kirkwood has proposed
this, but would like to know what you think of it. The

limb still quite stiff. It can move a little up and down

at the knee, but not one inch to right or left.

    The injury left him permanently lame. He used
to walk fast, limping along with his left hand pressed
against the hip. When in the summer they returned
to their favourite resort at Kilmichael, in Glen Cloy,
Arran, he wistfully remarked that he would never

ix           STRENUOUS YEARS                                    417

again be able to climb Goatfell --and he never did,

though his activity in after-years was wonderful.

   Writing in March to Dr. King, Thomson says :--

     I am glad you were interested in some parts of my
paper on " Atmospheric Electricity." It is merely an
abstract, and necessarily very condensed, but, so far as
the details of instruments and electrical observations are
concerned, it will be not the less acceptable on this

account. I am afraid you say more than is deserved as

/to the style ; but one thing is certainly true, that in

general get on at a very slow rate in writing for the press.

    At the close of the session in May 1861, he sent

his colleagues, Professors Grant and Rogers, a

hundred guineas each, as an acknowledgment for

their having carried on his classes during the time

when he was incapacitated.

    In June Thomson gave to the Royal Society a
paper, on the Measurement of Electric Resistance,

in which he described the double-bridge, and intro

duced the non-inductive method of winding resist

ance coils.

    This year the British Association met in Man

chester. Thomson presented a paper on The

Possible Age of the Sun's Heat (see 537), and

joined with Joule in another on the Thermal
Effects of Elastic Fluids (see p. 292). This meet
ing was notable for the appointment of the

Electrical Standards Committee, which after six

years of labour fixed the principal features of the

now international System of Electrical Units. A

paper had been read1 by Sir Charles Bright and

    1 See the Electrician, vol. i. p. 3, November 9, 1861.

    VOL. I                                                  2E

41 8  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Mr. Latimer Clark proposing certain units and sug
gesting names for them: "galvat" for current,
"ohma" for electromotive force, "farad" for quan
tity, and " volt " for resistance. The matter was
keenly taken up, and on the motion of Thomson a
committee was appointed, consisting of Professors
Williamson, Wheatstone, Thomson, and W. H.

Miller, with Matthiessen and Fleeming Jenkin, to
report on the subject. They were reappointed next
year, with additional members, Clerk Maxwell, C. W.
Siemens, Balfour Stewart, Joule, Varley, and Sir C.
Bright, and later with Carey Foster, L. Clark, and
Hockin, and published, for several years, a series of
reports. Thomson had so far back as 1851 been
using absolute units, and now urged their adoption.
After several meetings the committee agreed upon
the main resolution, namely, to adopt as unit of

resistance one based on the metre and second in

the electromagnetic system of Weber, since one of
the decimal sub-multiples of the metre-second system
agreed within a few per cent with the arbitrary
mercury standard suggested by Siemens. Thomson

prepared some new resistance coils and sent them

to Weber to be checked. He also devised a new

method of determining resistance by means of a
revolving coil ; but owing to close occupation of
himself and Jenkin as jurors at the International
Exhibition in the summer of 1862, their experiments

were incomplete when the committee had to present

its first report. During the second year of the

committee's existence great advances were made.

ix  STRENUOUS YEARS  419

Maxwell, Balfour Stewart, and Jenkin, at King's
College, carried out the classical experiments with
the spinning coil to determine the value of the unit

of resistance ; Thomson was the designer of this
apparatus, which was constructed under his eye by
James White of Glasgow, expressly to carry out the
method devised by him. He not only improved
his method during the progress of the experiments,
but devised an absolute electrometer, and himself

drafted the main report, while Maxwell wrote the
famous appendix on the relations between Electrical
Measurements, in which the Theory of " Dimen
sions " was expounded with a masterly hand. The
third report, in 1864, resulted in the issue of the
standard of resistance called the " B.A. unit," or
"ohmad," since shortened to "ohm." During the

fourth year the committee went on with tests and
measurements on units of resistance to confirm their

constancy, and Thomson prepared new apparatus
for absolute measurement, but had to suspend his
work because of his absorbing engagements upon
the Atlantic cable. In the fifth report, presented
at Dundee in 1867, the chief features were a long
account of electrometers by Thomson, and a new
determination by Joule of the mechanical equivalent
of heat, by electrical methods which would afford a
check as to the absolute value of the standards of

electrical resistance. Thomson also constructed at

his own expense a new electro-dynamometer. The
sixth and final report of 1869 contained the experi
ments of Thomson and those of Maxwell on the ratio

420                         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                 CHAP.

of the units, called "v," while Jenkin added a report
on the new standard, the " ohm." Throughout all its

protracted labours Thomson was the inspiring force
in the committee, incessant in interest, and fertile in

suggestion.
    Vexations came to Thomson at the end of 1861,

when new statutes, promulgated by the University
Commissioners, deprived the Professor of Natural
Philosophy of certain graduation fees out of which
hitherto he had paid the expenses of his laboratory
and the salary of ^'60 to £70 to his laboratory
assistant. It was some years before this matter
was righted. In the meantime the work went on

with unabated activity.

    Old Donald MacFarlane, the "official assistant" of

the Professor during many years, was a marked figure1
amongst successive generations of students. Devoted

to his chief, for whom he made many experimental

researches, he was never happier than when busy

over the working out of some abstruse calculation

of spherical astronomy, and his laborious task of

looking through the answers of students to the
problems set in the weekly examinations of the class
was fulfilled with a regularity and zest that was

astonishing.
     Thomson was also busying himself with investiga

tions on the rigidity of the earth, on its secular cooling,

1 The following is one of the many stories told of this faithful assistant : --

The father of a new student when bringing him to the University, after call
ing to see the Professor, drew his assistant on one side and besought him to tell
                                                                                                   ' ' You
him what his son            must   do that he might stand      we" llaswkiethd  the Professor.  "  Yes."
                            stand  weel with the Profeessorr?                   MacFarlane.
w"aWnteeyl,ourthesonn,  to  must   just have a guid bellyful a mathematics " 1
                        he

ix               STRENUOUS YEARS                421

and other questions affecting its geological history.

Of these some account is given in Chapter XIII.,

below. He was still collaborating with Joule on
the thermal effects of elastic fluids. He was busied

with kinematical and dynamical problems of bodies

in revolution. His laboratory corps was kept busy
with experimental work. Moreover, he was ex

amining candidates for the India Telegraph Service,

and sending weekly problems and exercises to Mr.
(now Sir William) Preece for them to work. And
as if there was not enough to fill his days, he pro

jected the writing of an extended treatise on Natural
Philosophy with his friend Professor Tait. The

following letter to Dr. David King mentions the
matter :--

                                    THORNLIEBANK, GLASGOW, Jan. 8/62.

    MY DEAR DAVID -- I think it possible that the sun's

heat, which we know to be radiating away dissipated

through space, may have the effect of evaporating matter

in very distant regions, and preparing a suitable medium

or atmosphere (for I think the word atmosphere, or inter
planetary air, is quite as appropriate as ether, which is in

fact aer, or a luminiferous medium, by which the fluid

occupying the region in space through which the earth

moves is    more commonly      called) for the   propagation  of
light, and  generally for the  requisites of a  " world."

    I send  (if  possible by this  post)  a very rough draft of
                 " The Possible    Age    of the Sun's Heat,"
my paper    on

wh. was read at the British Assoc" for me by Prof.

Rogers. A delusive and altered abstract appeared in

the Athenizum, but the paper itself will soon appear in
Macmillaris Magazine -- next month, perhaps.
                                                In the

meantime I think you will make out enough of its

general tenor by the MSS. I send.

   If you are not using the abst. of my Roy. Inst. lect.

422              LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                 CHAP.

on atmosph. electy. which I sent you last spring, will you
put a band round it and address it by post to Prof. Tait,
6 Greenhill Gardens, Edinburgh. I have been projecting

a book on Natural Philosophy (elementary and non-

mathematical) along with him, and as he has very great

executive energy and facility in writing, I hope we may

soon get   a vol. i. out.     and  the  children, -- I                          am,  yours
     With  love to Elizabeth

affectionately,                    WILLIAM THOMSON.

    P.S. -- My paper for Macmillan has been in type some

time, and I presume will appear in next number. I shall

send you a copy.

    The next letter mentions his change of view as
to the origin of the sun's heat :--

                                                           THORNLIEBANK, Feb. 3/62.

    MY DEAR DAVID -- As to falling stars, you will re
member (as I think I told you, and as the rough MS.

draft in your hand shows), I have formally abandoned the
hypothesis that they continue at present falling into the
sun abundantly enough to compensate him for the heat he
radiates away from year to year, and I suppose him at
present to be a liquid mass cooling. But it seems highly
probable that the heat he is now radiating away was
generated in ancient times by the falling in of meteors.

    I feel very strongly the difficulty you state as to shape
less detached stones being a primitive form of matter. It

was put very strongly to me about two years ago by
Bishop Ewing (" Argyle and the Isles and have felt

    ever since but, indeed, always seemed to me, much
as does now, very improbable supposition. We know,
however, that shapeless fragments of matter are actually
met in millions by the earth in its course through space.
In a theory accounting for solar heat by such masses
having at one time fallen into the sun, or having fallen
together and built up the sun, hot and ready for his

appointed task, we are not called upon to go step farther
back and discover, or guess, an antecedent condition of
it
    it

                                  ;

                            a
                                             it
                                                                          "),
                                                                             I

                                        a

ix       STRENUOUS YEARS     423

those fragments or masses. Some suppose them to have
arisen from the disruption of more dignified masses, but
this is a mere hypothesis. What is large and what is small,

even to our ideas, enlarged and enlightened by science ?
We are equally far from comprehending an act of creation
out of nothing, whether it be of matter in a finished and

approximately round globe like the earth, or in small

solid fragments, or in a general diffused medium, although

perhaps the last may seem the most probable to us in our
present state of feeble enlightenment.

     But without attempting anything so much beyond our
powers as the discovery of the primitive condition, of matter,

we successfully investigate the present condition, and argue
from analogies and from strict dynamical reasoning, what
must have been the antecedent condition, with more or
less of detail, back to more or less ancient times. Look

ing at the present conditions and functions of the sun, I

argue back on this principle to the probable supposition
that he has been built up by the falling together of smaller

masses.

     Actual energy wasted. I do take into account that
water by friction will " heat its channel as well as itself."
ifThe whole heat generated,
                             it were confined to the water,
would heat the water by the stated amount. The heating

actually experienced by the water is that which the portion
of the whole generated heat which does not go to the
solid channel effects in the water. Joule in his funda
mental experiments, stirring water in a cubical box by
means of a paddle, always allowed for the heat that went

to the metal of the box and the paddle. . . .

    With love to all, I remain, yours affectionately,
                                               WILLIAM THOMSON.

     In the spring of 1862 some letters passed be

tween William and James Thomson on the question
of vital forces in relation to the conservation of

energy (compare p. 289). In June the jury work
at the Exhibition claimed his energies. The British

424 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

Association that year met at Cambridge on October 1 ,
but Thomson did not attend it.

    Later in the year Thomson addressed to Helm-
holtz a letter of twenty-four octavo pages, the bulk
of which is taken up with a mathematical disquisition

on the distribution of potentials in the neighbour
hood of the edge of a solid conducting body, a
problem which he treated by the method of electric

images. Apart from this, the letter is as follows :--

                                 THORNLIEBANK, GLASGOW, Nov. 23, 1862.

    MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I owe you many apologies

for having so long neglected to answer your letter 1 received,

I am ashamed to say, some six months ago. It came to

me when I was hard at work as a juror in the Exhibition.
This lasted till the end of June and kept me, as you may
imagine, in very incessant occupation ; but I used to say
every day " heute will ich schreiben," and every day passed
without my being able to find time. I wanted to write
something that might possibly be useful to you in reply
to your mathematical question ; but had I known that I
should not manage to do so even by this time, I should
at once have written to thank you for your letter at least,
and for the tidings it contained regarding yourself, which
interested me much. I hope all has gone well with you and
your family since that time, and I shall hope to hear again
from you soon, unless you are disposed to reward me accord
ing to my own conduct in the matter of letter-writing.

     Ever since I got away from the Exhibition (whence
after spending nearly two months there we went to Arran
for the rest of the summer), I have been very busy, first,
with two papers, one on the " Secular Cooling of the
Earth" (now published Trans. Roy. Soc. Edin., I shall

    1 This was a letter of May 27, stating a mathematical difficulty about the
distribution of electricity at the edge of a circular tube or at the straight edge
of a conducting body, and asking for a solution which Thomson had announced
but not published.

ix                      STRENUOUS YEARS                                                                        425

send you a copy as soon as I get one [one sent Dec. 1],
and communicated but not published R. S. Lond.), the
other on the " Deformations of Elastic Spherical Shells,"
and then preparing for a book on " Natural Philosophy,"

which, along with Tait, Professor in the same department

in Edinburgh, I am going to bring out for the use of our

students. I have long found the want of such a book,

but the labour to prepare has seemed too formidable

until I found a most energetic and able coadjutor in my

colleague of Edinburgh. We have one sheet in type

now (" Kinematics ") only so far, and we hope                  to have a
first of two good-sized volumes out by summer.                 " Sound "

is to be our last chapter of vol. and any suggestions,
                        ;
                                  ?

                                if I

                                      it
                                             is i.,
contributions, or references from you (if, assuming that we

know all that published in your book, you have anything
         (a
more to tell of), will be thankfully received. Is your bookis

on Acoustics now finished   suppose                  it        from what you
                                                         a is
told me in your letter and                         to be had, we shall get

it  immediately to help us with what we have to do. . . .

    The next time you come to Glasgow, which hope                                                              is
                                                               I

not very long in the future, you will find great improve

ment in my working place. From the beginning of this

session  month ago) have had really convenient and
                        I

                                                  a

sufficient laboratory for students. Out of about 90 who

attend my lectures, about 30 have applied for admission
to the laboratory, and of these 20 or 25 will work fairly.

   hope may have half dozen who will do good work.
I
            I
              I

                                      3^
                                              a

                                                       a

                                                                                                            ;

                                                                                            is
Some of them are at work at present on new electrometers

which you would not recognise.                       The old (mammoth)

species of portable electrometer, which you know, extinct,

and has been succeeded by one of which some individuals

do not exceed           inches in any dimension, and yet are

more sensitive and more easily managed than their pro

genitors. have also much-improved mirror-electrometer

retaining some of the same organs as the original species,

but so much altered that you would scarcely know them

to be the same, and some new organs also (owing to the

habits of the instrument makers), some of the old organs

retained but abortive.

426              LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                          CHAP.

I hope this next time you fix upon the seaside for
your holidays it will be Arran that you will choose. It

will be a pleasure to us, too, to make acquaintance with

your wife, if you will come and bring her with you.

Mine sends you her kindest regards, and I remain

yours always truly,                             W. THOMSON.

    In December 1862 Mrs. Thomson met with a

bad accident when at Largs, being thrown out of
a dog-cart. Her health, which was never robust,

suffered severely from the shock.

    The following letter to Professor T. Andrews,
of Belfast, is of interest in relation to the state of
electrical engineering at this date :--

                                           GLASGOW COLLEGE, March 4/63.

MY DEAR ANDREWS -- Tait asks me to write to you

and tell dimensions, etc., of the circuit in Holmes' electric

light (marine) apparatus. This I cannot do, but I took
         of the  pmaartyicaunlasrws eroffothr eyoFurrenpcuhrpaopsepa:r--atus
a note   I hope                                                               (Nollet),
which

4 X 6 = 24 bobbins, each 16 metres of eight-fold wire,

each wire 1 mm. diam. 24 large steel magnets, six plates
each. 1 6 small steel magnets, three plates each. Weight
                                    " carries
of each  large magnet   2 1 kilo,  1 1 kilo, "  from 60-70                    units."
Weight   of each small  magnet                  carries from                  35 -40

units."     300-400 turns   per minute. One machine re
quires   1£ horse power to
                            drive it. " Light of one machine

= 125 carcel."
Height of machine (stated with a view to convenience

on board ship), 1.5 metre. Breadth a little less.
     Ganot gives a drawing of one, but of somewhat different

proportions. Each machine costs £400.                                         I know
    There, I have made a clean breast of it.

nothing more of the matter except that Nollet does not

reverse his connections, and therefore does have alternately
reversed current in his flame ; whereas Holmes does reverse

ix                       STRENUOUS YEARS                                   427

and does not leave reversals in the flame. Thus Nollet

escapes the commutator, a great evil, and gets a flame

which does not burn one of the points faster than the other
--a small but sensible benefit. The reverse of each pro
position applies to Holmes. The commutator is a frightful

thing. I don't mean that Holmes' is bad, because I do not

know and may be very good but the thing to be
       it it,               I is
                     it                            ;

                                                it
done at the requisite speed appalling.              However, Holmes
                                                     cannot be done
does       successfully. But      believe

except theoretically without great waste of energy and con
sequent burning of contact surfaces.

       was assured that the reversing flame                                in every
    I                                                 it
            I                                            is

                    II                                       I
respect as good as the flame of constant electro - polar

direction, and. have no reason to believe                          should not

be so. Now have told you rather more than all know

about it.

       But believe a large voltaic battery will be more

economical than any electromagnetic machine.                               am
                                                      I
                                                              II
not quite confident about this, but shall be so soon, as am

getting large voltaic (120 elements), crude carbon (zinca
and one liquid, i.e. dilute sulphuric acid), and shall soon

learn how expensive its habits are, and multiply by the

number required for a lighthouse. Serrin supplies an

electric lantern with movement for the unequal burning

of the points. (This movement adjustable to equality for
the Nollet apparatus.) As far as could gather at the
              I
                  it
                          I

                                                       a

                                                   I
                                                     I

                                                                       is

                                                                     I
Exhibition, Serrin's was the best, and accordingly ordered

one which have recently received, and to be tried to

night with a view to making       bright spot on the top of
the observatory on the evening1 of the loth. If you care

to hear  how        acts  or how  --mYyobuarsttevreyrywotrruklsy,          shall be
glad to  write  when       know.

                                  WILLIAM THOMSON.

    In 1863 Helmholtz was invited to London to1
deliver the Croonian Lecture at the Royal Society,

      March loth, 1863, the occasion of the wedding of H.R.H. the Prince
of Wales to Princess Alexandra.

428  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                          CHAP.

and six lectures on the Conservation of Energy at
the Royal Institution. In anticipation of this visit

Thomson wrote him :--

                                                                 2 COLLEGE, GLASGOW,
                                                                      March 16, '63.

     MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I am very glad to hear you

are soon to be in England, to give some lectures at the
Royal Institution, and I write to say that we hope you
will be permitted to come as far north as this, and give
us a visit in Glasgow before you return to Germany. We

are now living in our own house in the College, and it
will be a great pleasure to Mrs. Thomson and myself to
see you. I have got a great improvement in my laboratory
recently, which gives me, what I never had before, space

for allowing the students to work in a systematic manner.

I have a few new things, both electrical and others, which

may be some slight inducement to you to come, should

you think it worth while to make so long a journey to
see your friends in Scotland. But above all, I want to

have a great deal of conversation with you on many

subjects.

     The book of Tait and myself is dragging along very
slowly. We have about 400 pages in type, only, but hope
to have a volume of 700 pages (including preliminary
matter, Dynamics, and Properties of Matter) published by
the middle of June. Some time ago I sent you, at the
request of the author, an article which appeared in the

February number of the North British Review. It is only

the first of two articles, of which the second is to contain

electric, chemical, and magnetic thermodynamics. The

author would be glad to have your opinion of it as a

whole or on any points, especially any objections, if any

occur to you against                                              very anxious to be as
I                     as he
                  I

                                            it,
                                                              is
correct and just as possible, and would have an opportunity
in the second article of repairing to some extent errors or
omissions of the first. Should any remarks occur to you,

   should therefore be much obliged by your telling me

them, that may communicate them to the author.

ix                   STRENUOUS YEARS                            429

    My paper on the " Rigidity of the Earth " is only now
completely in type, and finally corrected for print. I

hope soon to be able to send you a copy. Mrs. Thomson

joins with me in kind regards, and I remain yours very

truly,                                       W. THOMSON.

    P.S.-- If you come here, as I hope you will, you will

see three clocks regulated and a separate pendulum kept

going constantly by electric currents from our University
observatory three miles distant. I have an object glass

on the pendulum, on your method, as a preliminary to

determining the force of gravity. I can also show you

several new electrometers, some highly sensitive, and the

experiments on contact electricity regarding which I wrote

to you a long time ago ; also ironclad galvanometers.

    Mrs. Thomson followed this up with a further

note :--

                     2 THE COLLEGE, i^th March [1863].

    MY DEAR MR. HELMHOLTZ -- It will give us much

pleasure to see you on Monday, the 28th, and I hope

you will be able to come. Please let me have a word as

soon as you know, to say if we may expect you, and at

what    hour    you    will arrive.      It  is very kind of    you to
come    so far   to                          haste, yours very  truly,
                     see us,-- In    great

                                             M. THOMSON.

     Helmholtz's visit to England lasted four weeks.
" I always look," he wrote, " on a journey to England
as a kind of intellectual 'cure,' which shakes one

out of the comfortable indolence of dear old Germany
into more active life." He visited Oxford, Man
chester, and Glasgow. He sent to his wife a full
report of his doings.

    My journey to Glasgow went off very well. The
Thomsons have lately moved to live in the University

buildings [the old College] ; formerly they spent more

430 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

time in the country. He takes no holiday at Easter, but
his brother James, Professor of Engineering at Belfast,

and a nephew who is a student there, were with him.
The former is a level-headed fellow, full of good ideas,
but cares for nothing except engineering, and talks about

it ceaselessly all day and all night, so tnat nothing else

can be got in when he is present. It is really comic to

see how the two brothers talk at one another, and neither

listens, and each holds forth about quite different matters.

But the engineer is the most stubborn, and generally gets
through with his subject. In the intervals I have seen a
quantity of new and most ingenious apparatus and experi
ments of W. Thomson, which made the two days very
interesting. He thinks so rapidly, however, that one has
to get at the necessary information about the make of the
instruments, etc., by a long string of questions, which he
shies at. How his students understand him, without

keeping him as strictly to the subject as I ventured to do,
is a puzzle to me ; still, there were numbers of students in

the laboratory hard at work, and apparently quite under

standing what they were about. Thomson's experiments,
however, did for my new hat. He had thrown a heavy
metal disk into very rapid rotation ; and it was revolving
on a point. In order to show me how rigid it became in

its rotation, he hit it with an iron hammer, but the disk
resented this, and it flew off in one direction, and the iron

foot on which it was revolving in another, carrying my hat
away with it and ripping it up.

    After he left, the following note was sent him by

Mrs. Thomson :--
                          2 THE COLLEGE, GLASGOW,
MY DEAR  PROFESSOR              igth April [1863].

                    HELMHOLTZ --Will you be so

kind as take the charge of a small parcel, which will be

left for you at the Royal Institution, containing a book,
which I hope your daughter will accept with my kind

regards. It is Longfellow's Poems which I have chosen,

as being more easily understood by a foreigner than some

,x  STRENUOUS YEARS  431

of our other poets. I wished to send it by you when

here, but I was prevented going out to choose it.

    Your hat is here, and if you have not left London the
first week in May, I think we may find an opportunity
of sending it to you. I was very sorry when I heard of

your accident in the Laboratory, which I did not until
you had left us. I trembled to think what it might have
been, and I am distressed that you should have been
exposed to such a danger with us. I hope that you are

enjoying your stay in London, and that you have good

accounts from home, and with kind regards I remain, --

Dear Professor Helmholtz, yours very truly,

                                                              M. THOMSON.

    In this spring Thomson delivered a course of three
lectures on Electric Telegraphs at the Royal Insti
tution. The syllabus of these shows no feature of
special novelty ; and no report of them is known.

    At the British Association meeting of 1863

Thomson read a paper on the result of his self-
recording electrometer at Kew. He was continu

ing experiments on the electrostatic capacities in
connection with submarine cable work, when, one

evening in October, he noticed the peculiar circum
stance that a condenser, formed of two metal plates
separated by a film of air, emits at the moment of

its discharge an appreciable sound. An account
of this discovery, written to Professor Tait, was

published in the Philosophical Magazine,
    The Atlantic telegraph project was now being

revived, and in the autumn Thomson spent some
time in London to advise upon the preliminaries.

    Early in 1864 he gave to the Royal Society of
Edinburgh several papers, including one on the

432  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

influence of dew in protecting vegetation from

destructive cold at night.

    In May Mrs. Thomson wrote to Mrs. James
Thomson :--

     William, I am sorry to say, is still very lame, and able

to walk almost none, without pain. He will not rest as

much as he ought to do, although he abstains from walk

ing. It is most disappointing, after he had been so well,
and I begin much to fear that he will never be as free

from lameness as he was some weeks ago.

    In the spring Mrs. Thomson's health was again

cause of anxiety. They went in May to Creuznach,
whence, on June 2, he wrote to Mrs. King :--

     Margaret has removed to a house nearer the spring,
where she goes to drink the waters. . . . There are very
pretty drives and walks in the neighbourhood. . . . Tell
George that his cheroots are very good, and will be most
useful here.

    Later he wrote to Helmholtz :--

                                              WILDBAD, July 31, 1 864.

    MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ --The amount of Cur pre

scribed for me is 21 baths, which will be completed on
Friday next, and as we leave immediately after, there is
no chance, I fear, of our seeing you here. We think on
returning by Strasburg and Paris. We like the place very
much (a great deal better than Creuznach), and Dr.
Berckhardt says the baths are sure to do me some good,
but that I am not to expect too much (which I have
certainly never been disposed to do). I shall not forget
to return your Kirchhoff on Plates, which has been very
useful to me. I now see quite distinctly both how there
are only two, and how there might be supposed to be

three equations for the boundary. It is certainly a great

card of Kirchhoff's, to have set this matter right after

ix                    STRENUOUS YEARS                433

such great people as Mile. Sophie Germain and Poisson

got wrong on          it,  and Lagrange had          in hand without
                                  !;

                                                 it
doing it. The full working out of the solution, too, for

the circular plate, shows no small amount of courage, skill,

and well -spent labour. Oh that the CAYLEYS would

devote what skill they have to such things instead of to

pieces of algebra which possibly interest four people in

the world, certainly not more, and possibly also only the

one person who works. It really too bad that they don't
                              is

take their part in the advancement of the world, and leave

the labour of mathematical solutions for people who would

spend their time so much more usefully in experimenting.

      have got the theory of an elastic plane plate now
I
   I

                           a
                                                                                 a

                                                                                          is
                                                                                      is I
    think on very simple foundation. The only result

have taken from the general theory of an elastic solid

that the couples of forces required to bend plate depend

solely on the curvature, provided the displacement        at

no point more than an infinitely small fraction of the

thickness.

        hope you will not forget the promise you kindly
made, to order your apparatus of tuning-forks, and

harmonic syren, for me. If any improvement in either

occurs to you, do not hesitate on account of expense to
I                                                    2
haveI introduced. Shall be able to have either or
                           I                           Fa
         it                   should be glad at all events to
                if               is                                 a
both by November?
                                   I
have them, possible, before the end of the year, so that

    may be able to use them for my lectures this session.

We hope your little boy getting better.              My wife joins
me in kind regards to yourself and Mrs.              Helmholtz. --

Yours always truly,                          W. THOMSON.

    P.S. -- We have        a  great deal of amusement talking

with people of all nations here, Germans, Russians, Poles,

and English no French or Prussians. The last are much
      I
abused by the first.;

     In October he wrote again -- '   :

     We have been in Arran since our return until         few
    VOL.

434 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

days ago, and remain here till November, when the College
session commences. The book has been dragging its slow
length along more slowly than you could conceive. Still
I hope by Christmas to be able to send you a volume of

700 pages.

    To Professor Andrews, who had presented him

with that optical curiosity a Barton's button, he

wrote on January 28, 1865 :--
    MY DEAR ANDREWS --The Barton is beautiful, and

will be a great acquisition for my lectures. I have long
wished both to see one myself and to be able to show it

to my students.

     I am extremely glad to hear that you think of re

suming your experiments on the relations between the

gaseous, liquid, and transition states. I am sure you will
get most valuable additional results, but I hope you will

not delay later than you can conveniently to write out an
account of what you have done already, so giving it to the
world. The experiments you showed me on carbonic acid
seemed to me quite complete in themselves and ready for
publication. They throw a perfectly new and most unex

pected light on the subject. I have no very satisfactory
way of showing the heat generated in air rushing into a
vacuum. I merely show, by aid of a thermo-electric junction,
that there is a heating effect. I should be greatly obliged

by your describing to me the arrangement you have made
for this purpose, according to your kind offer, and any of
the other class experiments on heat to which you refer,

if you can do so without too much trouble. But I feel

quite ashamed even to suggest this, knowing how valuable

your time is ; and I must beg that you will not scruple to

postpone indefinitely, unless you find some convenient
moment to write to me about them.

     Joule has been with us for a week, having come to
Scotland to lecture at Greenock in commemoration of
Watt, on the occasion of his birthday, observed as an

anniversary there.

ix             STRENUOUS YEARS               435

    I have thus been very much engaged, over and above

my ordinary class work, and obliged to postpone work on

the book.  Tait and  the  printers had just  bneogwu.n--toYofurerts,
but they             be   in better humour
           ought to

always truly,             W. THOMSON.

    With the absorbing work of experimenting in
connection with the Atlantic cable, and with frequent
visits to the factory in London, the winter session
of 1864-65 was one of extreme pressure. But the
laboratory continued in full swing, and the study of
the properties of matter had now taken the turn of
inquiries into the elasticity and viscosity of metals.
In May 1865 a memoir on this subject was pre
sented to the Royal Society. Thomson had

observed that by vibrating a spring alternately in
the air and in the exhausted receiver of an air-

pump there was an internal resistance to its motions

--as attested by the rate of subsidence of its vibra
tion --immensely greater than the resistance offered
to it by the air. This internal molecular resistance

is of a frictional nature, and is a part of the

phenomenon of viscosity. To test this viscosity,

Thomson, with the assistance of Mr. Donald

MacFarlane, hung wires of different metals from
a rigid support and submitted them to torsional
vibrations by means of heavy vibrators attached to
their lower ends. Determinations of the values of

Young's modulus were made also on wires 80 feet
long hung in the College Tower, and the rigidities
were measured. Rigidity was found to be reduced
by longitudinal traction. In this paper Thomson

436 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

adopted metric units ; and he appended in a foot
note the following caustic comment on " the British

no-system " : --

    It is a remarkable phenomenon, belonging rather to

moral and social than to physical science, that a people

tending naturally to be regulated by common sense should
voluntarily condemn themselves, as the British have so

long done, to unnecessary hard labour in every action of

common business or scientific work related to measure
ment, from which all the other nations of Europe have

emancipated themselves.

    In May 1865 Thomson paid a flying visit to
Cambridge--the first since his marriage in 1852.
With the summer came the cable - laying expe

dition narrated in Chapter XI. The autumn found

him as devoted as ever to pure science, and able

to detach his thoughts from the absorbing topic

of the day. Three papers were read by him to the

Edinburgh Royal Society on December 18, 1865.

Of these, the first, an address delivered at the

request of the Council, was on the forces concerned
in the laying and lifting of deep-sea cables -- an im

portunate topic, since the broken cable of 1865 was
then lying at the bottom of the Atlantic, and anxious

engineers were cogitating how to raise it in the

coming year. The second was a note on the

dynamical theory of heat. The third, consisting of
but four emphatic sentences, was entitled the " Doc

trine of Uniformity in Geology briefly Refuted." It
is considered in Chapter XIII.
                                (p.  540). A month

later he was giving to the Glasgow Philosophical

Society a discourse on electrically -impelled and

ix    STRENUOUS YEARS                               437

electrically-controlled clocks, the inventions of Mr.
Robert L. Jones of Chester, which then were attract
ing much attention, and exhibiting a couple of new
standard electrometers. But he published little in
1866 : the cable work was too intense.

    For many years Thomson had been a stranger

to Cambridge, but now the University offered
him the compliment of an Honorary Degree of
Doctor of Laws. It was conferred on Tuesday,
May 22, 1866 ; but, unfortunately, the Latin speech
of the orator in presenting him to the Vice-Chan

cellor has not been preserved.

    The following day Thomson delivered the Rede
Lecture for that year. As this was never published,

the following abstract from the Cambridge Chronicle
of May 26, 1866, from a copy corrected by the
author's own hand, will be of interest.

                    THE REDE LECTURE

    On Wednesday afternoon last, Professor Thomson, of

Glasgow, delivered Sir Robert Rede's lecture in the

Senate -house, in the presence of a large and highly-

distinguished audience, including many ladies. The
subject was " The
following abstract  Dissipation of Energy."    We   make the
                                                    conserva
                    :--The great principle of  the

tion of energy teaches us that the material universe moves

as a frictionless machine. Vis viva, or, as we now call

Kinetic Energy, never lost or gained. If its amount
is if

             is
                             is

                                              it
                                                        is
                                                                                      it it,
becomes less in any portion of matter, an equivalent of
      done, and remains ready able, " potential," to
work

generate the same quantity of kinetic energy anew. Or

    kinetic energy increases,  necessarily at the expense

of potential energy drawn upon for the work by which

    generated. Until thirty years ago naturalists did not

438  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

require any explanation of the apparent losses of energy
manifested in every movement. But Davy and Rumford,
at the end of last century, in concluding from their experi
ments that heat is a state of motion, had prepared the

way for the great generalization which marks the fourth
decade of the nineteenth century as an era in Natural

Philosophy. They had not made this generalization, nor
quite proved that they had even imagined it. Davy,
when he said that the communication of heat follows the
laws of the communication of motion, did not suggest the
idea that in the generation of this kind of motion there
may be no loss of energy by frictions and impacts as there
always is in the communication of visible palpable
motions. But Rumford's merciful treatment of his mill
horses is described in language too suggestive of a direct
relation between work spent and whole amount of heat

generated, to allow us to suppose that he had not a very
distinct idea of mechanical equivalent between them in his
mind. When he finds that nine wax candles all burning

at once generate heat as fast as a single horse working

hard driving a cannon -boring machine, he gives us a
reckoning in horse-power to measure the activity of a fire.
And when he tells us that in no case can it be economical

to keep horses for generating heat by friction, BECAUSE

more heat could be obtained by burning their food, he antici

pates, in all but the number, Joule's discovery that the
heat of combustion of a horse's food is from four to six

times that obtainable through friction from a horse's work,
and comes very near to that deepest part of Joule's and
Mayer's philosophy in which it is concluded that animal

energy and heat together make up an exact equivalent to

the heat that would be generated by the chemical actions

in the living body if these were allowed to take place
without any performance of mechanical work. Joule him
self has deduced a fair approximation of his own directly
measured dynamic value of the thermal unit, from the

record which the Transactions of the Royal Society of
London contain of Rumford's experiments in the Mili
tary Arsenal of Munich on the heat of friction. The first

ix  STRENUOUS YEARS  439

step towards the establishment beyond the range of
abstract dynamics of the great law of Nature now known
as the Conservation of Energy, was made by Joule in his
investigation of the heat generated by electric currents,
described in an article communicated to the Royal Society,
December 1 7, 1 840, under the title " On the Production
of Heat by Voltaic Electricity." About the same time

many naturalists in many countries began to feel strongly
the want of some general principle to account for the
effects of work done when seemingly lost in friction.

S6guin in France, Grove in England, Mayer in Germany,
Colding in Denmark, all speculated of a comprehensive
theory in which the kinetic character of heat, established

by Davy and Rumford, should show how it is that energy
is not annihilated when work is done against friction.
The first published distinct mention of a " mechanical
equivalent" of heat was, I believe, that in 1839 by
Se'guin, for which he refers back to his uncle Mongolfier.
But the first solid ground gained in advance of that occu
pied by Davy and Rumford was conquered by as thorough
and determined sapping as has ever won a fortress for a
stubborn army. The genius to plan, the courage to
undertake, the marvellous ability to execute, and the keen

perseverance to carry through to the end, the great series

of experimental investigations (from 1830-1849) by
which Joule discovered and proved the conservation of

energy in electric, electro-magnetic, and electro-chemical
actions, and in the friction and impact of solids, and

measured accurately, by means of the friction of fluids,

the mechanical equivalent of heat, cannot be generally and

thoroughly understood at present. Indeed it is all the

scientific world can do just now in this subject to learn
gradually the new knowledge gained. Many of Joule's
subtlest discoveries and richest mines of future research
are still almost unknown. I refer particularly to his

paper on the "Heat of Electrolysis " (1842, Manchester
Literary and Philosophical Society). The greatness of a

Swiss mountain is scarcely discovered when looked up to
from the adjoining valley, and is only appreciated when

440            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                              CHAP.

distance shows outlines in their true proportions.                                     A

hundred years hence Joule's massive work of 1840 to
1850 will be seen not only towering above that of all
contemporaneous experimenters except Faraday, but

stretching across a range of physical science which

includes regions little known and rarely visited at present.
The lecturer then explained the Dissipation of Energy,

and showed that the molecular motions which constitute

heat, though containing a true dynamical equivalent for

the work spent in generating                        are not mechanically
               it,
                                               it,
equivalent to  inasmuch as only a small part of can
                                                                it
                                                                  is
ever be " reconverted into potential energy " (that to
say, applied to raise weights). The subtle but profoundly

practical reasoning of the French republican war-

minister's son, Carnot  ("  Motive Power of Fire," Paris,

1824), was alluded to as explaining the conditions under

which heat must be presented in order that the motive

power, as in the steam-engine or air-engine, may be got
from it. The heat radiated from the sun was referred to

as case of dissipation in which energy lost from every
a                                                   it
                                                            is
square foot at the rate of 7000 horse-power, and ulti
mately applied to warm the air (or aether, as some call it)
of space, except such small parts of as, falling upon the

earth, have given the energy of coal, and keep giving the

energy of growing combustibles and fuel. There                  dis
                                                                is
                                                                          a
sipation from the earth in the combustion of coal, at

rate so rapid as thoroughly to require anxious attention

in this country at the present time. And by the conduc

tion outwards of heat from within there dissipation atis
an average rate of one thirty-millionth of horse-powera

per square foot all round, or at 180 million horse-power

from the whole surface. The friction of waters flowing

by the tides gives rise to dissipation of energy of the

earth's rotation, the ultimate tendency of which                                       to
                                                    is
                                                                  a

                                                                                   is
make the earth, sun, and moon turn like parts of one

rigid body. The effect of the tides to produce retarda
tion of the earth's rotation, which might possibly amount

to one or two hundred seconds of time in century, four
times as much in two centuries, and so on. In the

ix             STRENUOUS YEARS            441

present very imperfect state of clock making, which does

not produce an astronomical clock more than two or three

times as accurate as a good pocket watch, the only body

by which the accuracy of the earth's rate can be compared

is the moon, and it seems, so far as the physical

astronomers Adams and Delaunay have been able to

correct her great irregularities, that the earth has lost on

her by some ten seconds of time in the last hundred

years. This may well be due to the tides, but it would

be rash to conclude that it is so, as the earth cannot be

trusted as an accurate time-keeper for two-tenths of a

second in a year (or 365 times as accurate as a pocket
watch good for two-tenths of a second per day). Snow

melting any year, or succession of years, from the polar

regions and raising the average sea level by the almost

undiscoverable difference of one inch and a half all over,

would make the earth go slower by two-tenths of a second

per year. The direct effect of the moon on the tides in

the Thames from London Bridge to the Nore Light is to

retard the rotation of the earth ; from the Nore all through

the English Channel as far as Exmouth and Jersey the

direct influence is to accelerate the rotation. West of this

along the English coast to Land's End, the south and

west coasts of Ireland, and the west coast of France and

the Peninsula, the direct effect is to retard the earth. All

over the oceans the action is either accelerating or

retarding, but the fact that there is loss of energy by fluid

friction makes it certain that the whole sum of retarding

effects due to one set of patches or spaces of ocean, ex

ceeds the sum of accelerating effects from the other spaces.

The lecturer   concluded   by summing     uspeeinp.th2e90f]oll:o--wing
terms [quoted   from the  paper of 1852,

     (1) There is at present in the material world a universal
tendency to the dissipation of energy.

     (2) Any restoration of energy, without more than an equivalent
of dissipation, is impossible in inanimate material processes, and
is probably never effected by means of organised matter, either
endowed with vegetable life or subjected to the will of an animated

creature.

442              LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                           CHAP.

     (3) Within a finite period of time past the earth must have
been, and within a finite period of time to come, the earth must
again be unfit for the habitation of man as at present constituted,
unless operations have been or are to be performed, which are

impossible under the laws to which the known operations going
on at present in the material world are subject.

One who was present declares 1 that Thomson's

multitudinous enthusiasm and dissipative energy

was so great that any really adequate or representa

tive report of the lecture was impossible. A small

portion of it appeared in the Philosophical Maga

zine (vol. xxxi. pp.                        533-537; Supplement, 1866)
under the title, " On                       the Observations and Calcula

tions required to find the Tidal Retardation of the

Earth's Rotation," reprinted in Popular Lectures,

vol. p. 65.

    Writing to Helmholtz in December 1872, Sir
p.
William Thomson stated that he "did not succeed
      ii.
                 it
in getting written out, and has not been pub
                                                     a
                                                              it

                                                                 it
                                                                     in

                                                                                                            ;
lished." But the subject still engaged his thoughts.

He had first announced the discovery in 1852 (see

290, ante], and he returned to                                               February 1874

before the Royal Society of Edinburgh and in

March 1892 he wrote                                  popular article on the

Dissipation of Energy in the Fortnightly Review

     The thread of the discourse was incessantly interrupted by digressions.
a
      1

             it
"As soon as he had got a little under weigh, something apparently unconnected
with his subject would occur to his mind, and he would remark                                                  When
                                                   it
               w"it(horasfoamllaecthyinign             is
                                                                             it
                                                                                          ;
                                                                                    it
                                                                                                it

                                                                                                                          :
                                                                                                                        it,
you meet                                    vogue         well not to leave    alone without having
   rap at                                   to that  effect), and thereupon  proceeded to demolish

the fallacy. That done, when both he and his audience had forgotten where

he left off, he resumed the old track, but not quite where he had left                                                       and

by the time he and his audience had got together again, some new hare crossed
his track, and we were all scattered in pursuit of
                                                                             and so went on, the

time running out, and the short-cuts to regain the track becoming more and
more difficult to follow, until the end. The hunt pleasant enough to those
who were nimble enough, but the game killed mice and rats---and no hare.

ix  STRENUOUS YEARS                          443

(reprinted in Popular Lectures, vol.
    ;                                     pp. 451-

                                        ii.

                                       It
474)-
    Oxford, too, found occasion to honour Thomson's

fame with the Honorary Degree of D.C. L.     was

conferred on Wednesday, June 16, 1866; but again
no record has been preserved of the terms in which

the orator of the occasion pronounced his eulogium.

    Thomson's enormous activity during these years

was truly surprising and many are the reminis

cences preserved by old students and assistants.

He devoted himself, body, mind, and soul, to his
work, incessant from day to day, from year to year.
From early morning-- for before rising he would
begin to work at the notes in his green book -- to

late evening, he was immersed in his avocations.

Time was his enemy, with whom he seemed to

wage a continual warfare, consulting his watch at

intervals, sometimes with great perturbation. Dining
out was, during winter, almost his only relaxation
                                      ?
and even this he seemed to grudge. During the
winters, when his ailing wife was away at Torquayif
or in the Riviera, he and his assistant would work                         ;

on in the laboratory after all students had gone, and
at the last moment he would rush out to don his even

ing clothes, after consulting his watch down to the

last moment. If an Opera Company visited Glas

gow, he would tear himself away, particularly the
piece were one of Mozart's. After one such occa

sion he overheard his assistant the next morning
humming an air from the Flauto magico. " Were
you at the opera last night, Tatlock " he called

444 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

out. " I was, sir." " So I hear," he rejoined.
With discoveries and inventions crowding upon
him, he left himself little scope for methodical
exposition of his riches. By those who admire and

revere him most, it is frankly admitted that for the
purposes of systematic teaching he became a bad

expositor, profound as was his grasp, and accurate

as was his phraseology. He could not lecture on
the most ordinary and elementary parts of physics,
to the most ordinary of university students, without

his thoughts travelling ever and anon to the recon
dite border-regions of science, where only the few
could follow him. These original digressions, says
a former student of his class, containing the price
less jewels of his discourse, were simply flung away
on all except the abler and wiser scholars, who
listened with rapt attention to the flashing torrent,
the impetuous cataract of his genius. His imagina
tion was vivid : in his intense enthusiasm he seemed

to be driven, rather than to drive himself. The

man was lost in his subject, becoming as truly
inspired as is the artist in the act of creation.

    He lectured during the session twice a day, four
days a week, at 9 A.M. for the ordinary experi

mental lectures, and at n A.M. for the more mathe

matical exercises and oral examinations. At the

morning lecture he would enter hurriedly as the
alarum bell ceased, struggling into his gown as he
entered. Advancing to the table, with both hands
resting on its edge, and with head upraised and
eyes closed, he would then, after the manner

IX                STRENUOUS YEARS                                                           445

prevalent in the Scottish Universities, reverently

recite the morning prayer. In his case the prayer --
always the same -- was chosen from the English

Church Service, the third Collect for Morning
Prayer : " Almighty and Everlasting God, who hast

safely brought us to the beginning of this day. . . ."

Then he would take a hurried glance at the

apparatus arranged on the table by his assistant,

and plunge into the topic of the lecture.

    In an article on "Kelvin in the "Sixties,"1 the

late Professor Ayrton, who was one of Thomson's

students in these years, has given an inimitable

account of his master, whom he describes as not

only a giant mentally, but of extraordinary physical

activity :--

     When he came into his class-room --a room festooned

with wires and     spiral springs    hanging   from the                                       ceiling
like the rigging                   had hardly   given a                                     thought
                  of a ship -- he
to what he was going to talk about. If it were Monday

morning, he had just returned from staying the week-end

with Tait at Edinburgh, and he gave us an enthusiastic

account of their talk, bubbled over with what they had

been doing, was full of suggestions about told us how
    1

                                                          a
                                                                                 8,

                                                                                it,
the manuscript of Natural Philosophy was progressing.

We felt that we also had been discussing these points
with Tait in his Edinburgh study, and listened with

rapt attention to Thomson's narrative.                                             -- aye,

his  In his mathematical    physics lectures                                       that he  even in
                            the suggestions                                                  poured
     elementary lectures--

forth were much   above   the   heads       --ofantdhethoerydingaarinyedunlditetlre
                  100 in  this   class
graduates --over

by coming to them, except register of their attendance

        Times Engineering Supplement, Jan.  1908, and Popular Science
Monthly, March 1908.

446  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP, ix

necessary for their degrees. For as soon as he turned

round to write on the blackboard, the students row by
row began to creep out of the lecture-room through a
back door behind the benches, and steal downstairs, their

bodily presence following their mental presence, which
had left as soon as the reading of the roll-call was
finished. From time to time Thomson put up his eye
glass, peered at the growing empty space, and remarked
on the curious gradual diminution of density in the upper
part of the lecture-room.

     This class consisted mainly of divinity, medical, and
law students, who, of course, should have been taught the
elements of natural philosophy by some assistant pro
vided by the University. To waste the time, energy, and
extraordinary original power of a genius like Thomson

on such teaching was like using a razor to chop firewood.
The junior clerks in Downing Street require instruction,

but the prime minister is not expected to personally hold
daily classes for them. And yet, during the past eighty

years, there have been many prime ministers, but only
one William Thomson.

      But to those, like myself, who, after receiving some

scientific training, had come from other countries, to hear

Thomson's talk, his suggestions, his buoyancy, were like
the rays of brilliant May sunshine following April showers.

     The ideas of those students sprouted as never had
they done before. The more thoughtful gazed with eyes
of wonder at Thomson developing an original paper
during a lecture on anything he might be talking about,
well knowing that any notes or calculations that he might
previously have made were on the back of some old

envelope, and left probably with his greatcoat in the hall.

    Delight and wonder, says another of Thomson's
old students, were ever daily companions during
those strenuous years.

[,870]


                 CHAPTER X

                   THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE

    " Les causes primordiales ne nous sont point connues ; mais elles

sont assujetties a des lois simples et constantes, que 1'on peut d£-
couvrir par 1'observation, et dont 1'etude est 1'objet de la philosophic

naturelle." -- FOURIER.

TIME and chance happen unto all ; but it is not all

who are able to turn time and chance to account
for the benefit of posterity. Friendships between
scientific men are not uncommon, but rarely does
friendship bear fruit so direct, so permanent, as did

the friendship between William Thomson and Peter
Guthrie Tait. Their collaboration in the produc
tion of the Treatise of Natural Philosophy in 1867
marks an epoch in the teaching of the foundations
of physical science scarcely less important than that
in which Newton produced his immortal Principia.

    Early in his career as Professor at Glasgow,
Thomson had been confronted with the lack of
adequate text-books to place in the hands of his
students. Books, indeed, there were of the feebly
descriptive sort that one associates with the name
of Lardner ; also powerful mathematical treatises
like the Mdcanique analytique and the Mdcanique

                                                                  447

448  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

celeste. Books, too, to carry the perspiring candi
date through the mental gymnastics then in vogue
for passing examinations in Theoretical and Applied
Mechanics. But none of these were written from
the modern standpoint of energy ; they were mostly
loose in their phraseologies, confounding accelera
tion with force, and force with work ; and, where

mathematical, were too often apt to lose sight of

the physical meaning in pursuit of the mathematical
interest. " Books ? " he used to say to his students

when they asked him in what books to find what
he had been telling them in his lectures. " Books?
I am telling you what is not in books." But books

are necessary for deliberate study ; and are all the
more wanted when the master, inspired by his own
internal and vehement force, leads his students with

almost volcanic energy and erratic genius to the
confines of knowledge in the making. Thomson,

nurtured under the mature yet original genius of
his father --a great teacher, if ever there was one--
was deeply conscious of the needs of the students
struggling to follow his own inspiring but discursive
lectures. More than once he had set himself to

recast in simple form the doctrines he was dis
covering : witness the second paper on the " Theory
of Electricity," of 1848 (p. 142), and other publica
tions, in which he deliberately chose elementary
methods of exposition. But it was more particu

larly in the fundamental mechanical principles
underlying all physics that the need was sorest and
the provision least adequate. We have seen

x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 449

(p. 190) how he discriminated between the " natural
history," or descriptive stage, and the " natural
philosophy," or correlational and deductive stage of

physical science ; and as professor philosophiae
naturalis, he wanted to place in the hands of his
students an exposition of the laws and relations
discoverable by experiment, and of their logical

development into rational theories. For fourteen
years he had held the chair with peculiar distinc
tion ; but, almost overwhelmed with the new dis

coveries that were so largely products of his own
genius, he had never methodized his teaching, nor
found any comrade capable of entering into the

task.

    With the election of Tait to the chair of Natural
Philosophy at Edinburgh the chance came. Tait
was a Scotchman, reared in Auld Reekie, a school
fellow of Maxwell, a Peterhouse student, and, like
Thomson, a pupil of Hopkins. He was Senior

Wrangler in 1852, and was in many points a disciple
of Thomson, though personally unknown to him
prior to his election in 1860 as successor of Forbes.
Himself a man of remarkable individuality and

singular accomplishments, a first-rate mathematician
and a skilled experimentalist, Tait possessed quali

ties that differed widely from those of Thomson.
Tait was methodical and restrained where Thom

son was discursive and vehement. Controversy,
which was ever distasteful to Thomson, was to
Tait almost the breath of life. Tait loved a neat

mathematical demonstration  for its own sake ;
    VOL. I
                                                          2G

450  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Thomson cared little for the mathematical form, or

its deduction, provided it expressed the physical
relations he sought to convey. Professor Andrew
Gray, so long assistant to Thomson, has stated
another point of contrast. " Tait's professorial
lectures were always models of clear and logical
arrangement. Every statement bore on the busi
ness in hand ; the experimental illustrations, always
carefully prepared beforehand, were called for at
the proper time, and were invariably successful.
With Thomson it was otherwise : his digressions,

though sometimes inspired and inspiring, were fatal

to the success of the utmost efforts of his assistants

to make his lectures successful systematic exposi
tions of the facts and principles of elementary
physics." Thomson, always striving to set himself
free from hypotheses of a doubtful sort, kept his
physical conceptions clear-cut, and was almost
pedantic in his efforts at precise definition of the

terms he used, objecting to all metaphysical glosses
or subtleties that would take him away from the
concrete. Tait, too, was precise and clear, but in a

fashion of his own. Tait who had early imbibed
a passion for the quaternion method of treating
directed quantities, such as velocities and forces, in
accordance with the ideas of Sir W. Rowan
Hamilton, advocated the quaternion analysis as
particularly adapted to the problems of physics.
Clerk Maxwell, though he himself employed ordinary

analysis in his physical investigations, adopted the

language of quaternions in his great treatise. But

x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 451

Thomson to his dying day would have none of these
things, and even grew to hate the name of vector.
In spite of such divergences of view, the two men
worked in the most harmonious association in their

undertaking, and each supplied to the other some
thing necessary for the achievement of the task.

They thoroughly enjoyed one another's society, and

the intimate discussions renewed week by week,

enlivened as these often were by quips at one

another's expense. With them and their friends

the book was familiarly spoken of as " T and T',"' a

notation which passed into their letters ; for Tait,
instead of heading his epistles " Dear Thomson,"

substituted " O T," while Thomson's reply, usually

scribbled on the margin of some printer's proof,

would begin " O T' " ; and this logogram, being

non- epistolary in form, saved a halfpenny in

postage !                                 is told in the

    The origin of their collaboration
following letters :--

PROFESSOR CHRYSTAL to LORD KELVIN

               5 BELGRAVE CRESCENT, EDINBURGH,
                               12th July
MY DEAR  LORD  KELVIN  --      I am, in    1901.   of  a  better,

                                          default

engaged on a short obituary notice of Tait for Nature.

There is one point of great interest on which Crum

Brown is unable to inform me.

I should like to know when Tait first became personally

intimate with yourself, and what led to the auspicious con

junction of T and T', which I have always regarded as

one of the most important scientific events of the Victorian

era. Also when and under whose influence (if under any
particular influence) did Tait first enter what I may call

452       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                             CHAP.

the " Energetic " school of Natural Philosophy. Joule's
earliest papers on Energy date from about 1842 ; your
own, I think, from 1850 or 1851.

    Tait appears as a fully indoctrinated disciple in 1862,

and had apparently fully declared his position and views

in his introductory lecture in Edinburgh in 1860. Before

that I have no trace of him.

I should esteem it a great favour if you could send

me a few words on these two points which I could use in

Nature. I should, of course, be very careful not to mix

up any    views  or statements      of   my own with      anything
given on   your  authority. . .         Yours sincerely,
                                 .  --

                                        G. CHRYSTAL.

          LORD KELVIN to PROFESSOR CHRYSTAL

                             15 EATON PLACE, S.W., July 13, 1901.

    DEAR CHRYSTAL -- I first became personally acquainted

with Tait a short time before he was elected Professor in

Edinburgh ; but, I believe, not before he became a candi
date for the chair. It must have been either before his

election or very soon after it that we entered on the

project of a joint treatise on Natural Philosophy. He

was then strongly impressed with the fundamental im
portance of Joule's work, and was full of vivid interest
in all that he had learned from, and worked at with,

Andrews. We incessantly talked over the mode of

dealing with energy which we adopted in the book,

and we went most cordially together in the whole affair.
He gave me a free hand in respect to new names, and
warmly welcomed nearly all of them.

     We have had a thirty-eight years' war over quater
nions. He had been captivated by the originality and
extraordinary beauty of Hamilton's genius in this
respect ; and had accepted, I believe, definitely from
Hamilton to take charge of quaternions after his death,
which he has most loyally executed. Times without
number I offered to let quaternions into Thomson and
Tait if he could only show that in any case our work

x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 453

would be helped by their use. You will see that from

beginning to end they were never introduced.

Excuse haste, as I am leaving London this instant for

three days     in   the country.          NatIuraem. --eYxocueersdinvgelryy  glad you
are writing    the    article for                                            truly, for

Lord Kelvin,                              WM. ANDERSON, Secy.

The earliest reference found in Lord Kelvin's

papers is the following letter from Tait, dated from

Edinburgh, December 12, 1861 :--

MY DEAR THOMSON -- I have great pleasure in accept

ing your brother-in-law's kind invitation, and shall be at

your laboratory about 4 h. 30 m. on Friday week. . . .
     I have not yet heard definitely from Macmillan about

the treatise, but there is one point on which I feel very

strongly, and on which therefore I am desirous to talk

with you.      I mention                  it now, that you  may remember        it it,
       forget                             meet. Look at
                 when we                                    Jamin's book --
is i/f
                     it,
                                      is
a storehouse of valuable details for a man like Regnault,

or some one who                           setting up as thorough experi
                                                  a

                                                       it
mentalist with verbal instruction. Now seems to me

that such detail in modes of avoiding every sort of error,

and availing oneself of every nicety, NOT the thing our
                                                  is

students, or the general public, want. Explanation, as

thorough as possible, but not elaborate detail, seems to me

the proper line to take.                  mathematical      part -- but not
     Let us be very full on the

spend, as Jamin does, nearly £ths of each of his volumes
in explaining the precautions necessary in the laboratory.
Any student who wants these can get them from his

teacher or read them up in the French.

    If this be agreeable to you, fancy that we might
                                          I

                                                   a
easily give in three moderate volumes far more complete

course of Physics, Experimental and Mathematical, than

exists (to my knowledge) either in French or German.
As to English, there are NONE. .
                                          .
                                               .

   am myself a good example of the want of such book
I                                                                            a

as we contemplate, having got all my information bit by

454 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

bit from scattered sources, which often contained more error

than truth. The next generation will thank us.
                                                                 P. G. T.

    The next letter preserved drafts out the skeleton
of the treatise :--

                              6 GREENHILL GARDENS, EDINB.,

    MY DEAR                                        Dec. 2$th, 1861.  on
Monday last.
              THOMSON -- I wrote to Macmillan
              Here are the Postulates :--

  I. At least two vols. Experimental.
 II. Illustrations in the text.

III. Authors retain copyright.
IV. A definite number only to be printed. New arrange
            ments for subsequent editions.
V. If these agreed on, it is desirable to commence at once.
VI.
      That there    will probably be two vols.   of  Mathematical
                    as their sale is not likely      be so speedy,
          --and,                                 to

VII.        that McM. submit his terms for them.

      That, as we are certain to be pirated in        America and

           translated abroad, if no precautions      be taken-- the

            publisher do all that is requisite in that way.

I shall send you his reply as soon as I get it. Mean

while, I have been trying my hand at a programme for

the Experimental part. I wish you would try also before

looking at   mine,  and  see  whether  we  are   driving  on         the
same road   or not
                    :--

I. General reflections on Matter, Force, Motion, Measures,

 II.        Energy, Work, and Experiment.
III.
      Ordinary Statics.
      Kinematics and Dynamics.
IV. Hydrostatics, Pneumatics, and Hydrodynamics.

     V. Properties of Matter.

  VI. Sound
 VII. Light.

VIII. Heat.
IX. Magnetism.

   X. Electricity.

 XI. Electro-dynamics.
XII. Conservation of Energy.

Please correct this list by your own, or, if yours be

x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 455

entirely different, let me have it. We may then take

(say) alternate chapters, not subjects, and each submit his

MSS. to the other, who will forward it to the Pitt Press,

after making any remarks. The proof-sheets in the same

way will pass from one to the other before returning to
Cambridge. I think, if my scheme be anything like the

thing, that the first seven articles may be the first vol.,

and the others the second. However, we are not tied

down to two. When you have made all the remarks that

may appear necessary, I wish you would return the green
proof-sheets of my article " Force." Also, I am particularly

desirous that you should annotate very freely my notes for

lecture on " Properties of Matter." You must feel how

much we shall gain (in working together) by making the
most abundant comments on each other's work. I am in

no hurry for the MSS., but I should like to have the proof-

sheets some time next week.

I got the plateau, but nothing else. I expect the other

instruments as soon as White can send them. I asked

--MaYcoFuarrslantreulyto,  tell  him  to  give  me  notice   of their coming.
                                                             P. G. TAIT.

P.S.-- I      wrote              you  the  enclosed  late           26/12/61.
                                                             last night, and

luckily had not posted it when yours arrived this morning.

First, then, about the proof-sheets. I quite agree to

all your comments, most of which, I am happy to see, are

on points on  which I felt I              hsaod--nboustatiitsfaisctoarmy uisnifnogrmtaotiosne,e
and, indeed,
              had told you

how definitely you go into the case of conception and

treatment of the continuous uniform medium in which

atoms (or at all events matter) are supposed to float. I

am quite willing to adopt your views, but I should like

you to send me, as soon as you have leisure, a little

sketch   oforyosuorlidp--rooproseredfemr amtheemtoatictahle  treatment of such
a fluid                                                      work, Stokes' or

others', in which it is found, if already in print.

I quite agree with you that conductivities of all kinds

should be put under properties of matter, but I think

456           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                       CHAP.

merely mentioned, as they cannot be properly explained

till we come to Heat and Electricity.
    I should imagine that we ought to give the whole

(save the Mathematics, of course) of Elasticity, both of
form and volume, under Properties of Matter. You must

remember that my Notes for Lectures are mere headings,

and were intended for very great expansion when I con

templated writing alone.

    As I have already said in last night's part of this

letter, the more remarks you pen on these the better

shall I be pleased, for we shall thus have an opportunity
of blending our styles from the outset, and without that

our volumes will be patchwork, of excellent materials, no

doubt, but awfully inartistic -- a mixture, not a chemical

combination.

     Give me your idea on the general table of contents
which I have drawn up. I made it for my last year's

course, nearly as it stands, and have put in a few correc

tions here and there from the results of experience in
a year and a half's teaching. But I have not put in
Astronomy, nor Meteorology, as I have, up to the present

time, only examined, not lectured, on these great branches.

Of course, all the Chemistry we do we can pop into

Properties of Matter.     We must do Physical Astronomy
in our Mathematical      part. I am quite game for the
Lunar and Planetary
                         part ; but I shall hand over to you

(as you seem to be well up in them) Precession, Figure
of Earth, Tides, and Effect of  ^'8
                                                     a
                                 oblateness on moon's

motion, at least they are to be treated to formidable
         I
extent.            I ifcan also venture on Capillarity, Magnetism,

Static Electricity, Electrodynamics, Undulatory Theory,

Sound, and Conduction of Heat (and all about Ohm)
but you must furnish Elasticity I

                                       (a
                                                    is

                                                           I
                                                                                                      ;
                                 very long article),

Dynamic Electricity, Induction, Induced Magnetism,
Dynamic Theory of Heat, and Thermo-electricity, and

perhaps other things, which, as write in haste, may

have omitted. So you see we have no light undertaking

before us.             don't think that there  anything to

    As to time,

x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 457

hinder us from having a volume ready (or at all events

in a state in which I can manage it alone) by May, if we
can only agree within the next three weeks to our general

plan, and settle the order and nature of the contents of

the first volume. We have                       all our    matter    (for the
experimental volumes) at our                  finger-ends          us appor
                                                           -- let

tion our work, and fall to. An average of three or four

(or less) hours a day would give us the volume in six
weeks in such a state as to require little correction in

the present state of the science, for we have both been,

and shall be, talking every day on the subject. As I
said before, I firmly believe that all we want is order

abenfdorearrbaengginenminegnt--. thTeharetst  being very  carefully attended to
                                               is easy.   In fact the arrange

ment of our matter is our difficulty, for it is hardly possible

to take any part of the subject up without referring to

some other which has not yet been explained. In fact,

put them as you like, the cart must inevitably come before

the horse in some cases. . . .-- Yours truly,

                                                           P. G. TAIT.

Three days later Tait writes on the suggestion

that a shorter elementary text-book should be first

completed, the more mathematical developments

being reserved for the treatise. On January 8 Tait

sends Thomson a further draft for commentary,
and acknowledges the receipt of Thomson's " Intro
ductory Lecture " (see p. 239), which was suggested

as basis for a preface. On January n Tait urges

that the illustrations in the text must be very

copious. He acknowledges the receipt of a draft of

a chapter on Properties of Matter, a schedule of

contents of Vol.  I.,  and fourteen pages of com

ments. They certainly lost no time in sketching

out the work.

458       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                             CHAP.

    On January 15 Tait writes :--

    I sent you yesterday a meagre attempt at our Preface ;

it wants completeness, and also grinding down in its

many obvious asperities, but I think it has the ring of
true metal. I fear, however, it will come back shortly

shorn of its beams in a way in which (to my great
surprise) you did not treat my Prop. of Matter.

    As to the latter, I will shortly send you the revised

readings, that you may see whether they correspond with

your ideas, which I confess I have but vaguely gleaned

from your notes. However, we shall see that next week.

    I am now engaged with the Abstract Mechanics wh.

you wish me to do, and you shall have them in a few

days. I wish a few hours' contemplation of a subject,

with a pot of beer, and the lurid glare from my pipe

showing in the darkness ; then I can sit down and write
you off a chapter in double quick time. I find there is

no  caualmsreeofsuwtllhymatetehcvoheuargnhiicntal.op--vuetrtYi--noguarnspdetrnwuhlyte,on  paper till the  subject
is                                                                                        that is done,   writing
is

                                                                                          PETER G. TAIT.

   P.S.-- You have evidently thought more deeply about
matter than I have, but I can scarcely admit the ultimate

compressibility of its molecules.

    The next day brought a most characteristic

epistle.

                                               6 GREENHILL GARDENS, 16.1.62.

    MY DEAR THOMSON --§ ft. o. Of course the Preface

will have to be drawn mild, but I am glad you think it

contains the proper elements. As you say, it may be

dismissed at once from our minds till the first vol. is

printed off, but I can't help telling you that in conversa

                        of course, capital authority),
I

                                             a
                                                 is,
                                                                                  a

                                                                                                                                                                  ?
tion with Simpson (who
told him of the nature of the performance, and, though

he was amused, he seriously said he did not dislike the

idea of showing up the critics, especially the Athenceum.

What do you say to shot at the critic of Faraday

x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 459

Such as I have hinted (in an interlineation) without
mentioning names, about that philosopher who is so great

that other men's discoveries become his as soon as he

repeats their experiments.

    § XL I. I return by this post your Introductory
Chapter, with a few MSS. notes of my own. I fancy

you ought to cut out Neptune, and add a good deal

at the end. Such being done, it will be the proper

complement of Chap.                        Division          as by our recent
   §                                                 I.,

            I                                          I
                                                                    is I
                         §
                                      I.,                                      § it
arrangement.
        XL 2. think as we are going ahead so rapidly

will be useful to our lucubrations as have done this

note, taking some outlandish letter as our starting point

for each chapter. Say you take Hebrew and Greek.

The foreign letter means the absolute number (to be
afterwards found on putting all together) of the first
of a chapter, and fl 72 will thus mean (if fl be, say,
             §
                             §
'9.385) 19,457- This will give us great facilities for
reference as we go on with the writing. It                                      to be

understood that

       fl.                   §fl = §flo.
Chap              send you also my first approx" to Div. II.,

             " Explanation of Abstract Mechanics," wh. you
   §
                                have put some bosh towards the
          I.,

                3.

               I

                       II
wished me to try.

end which, of course, will rewrite, but want to know
                                           ;

                                              a

                                                       I
                                                             I

                                                                         is
whether you think the object (at wh. said bosh aimed)

to be properly cognizable in such place.

        fl.   4.     have just  received the beginning of your
   Laws           Motion," of
"  §         of                 which (of course)                       shall say

            I

                 I
nothing till        see the whole except that you are

welcome      to write what you              like, so      .  lo. n.g--  as you    save
me from      such an abominable            subject.                     Yours   truly,

                                                             P. G. TAIT.

   The correspondence continues --
                                           §
                                                      I:        EDIN., 20/1/62.
    MY DEAR THOMSON -- A. o.                              am very glad you

are pleased with my chapter on                          Abstract Mechanics.

460            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                   CHAP.

As to the title of the whole, I think there are great
                         " Dynamics   "suicnhstethaidngofasMSetcahtaicnsic--s.
advantages    in using   there is no
First, that  in reality

only dynamical equilibrium. Secondly, and very happily,

Dynamics really means the science of Force or Power,

and is erroneously used as a contrast to Statics. I am

perfectly willing to drop Mechanics entirely, and make

Dynamics the general title. What would you propose as

a substitute for the phrases mechanical equivalent of heatt
etc ? THIS QUESTION IS IMPORTANT AT THE OUTSET.

    A 1. I sent you on Saturday (to the College, but I
shall remember your         hiIntdoinn'tfutthuirnek)          of index to
                                                      a sort  quite under
Section III., Chap. I.
                                                      I have
stood you about Porosity, but I think most of the other

things are pretty well. I wish you would send it back

speedily, and I will get that chapter off my mind before
the month is out if possible. . . .

    A. 8. As to the Yoke, I shall bear it with perfect

equanimity, feeling assured that if I be galled with it
(wh. I don't expect) in the present book, YOU, too, will
have your fair share of abrasion when our Mathematical

volumes are being got ready. Think of that and don't

prematurely waste your stock of sympathy.

    A. 9. Andrews has just sent me all his papers on
Heat of Combination, and I intend to avenge him on

F.  and    S., who (if not  yseoeu.r--fYrioenudrss)   are    simply  THIEVES,
at  least  as far as I can                           truly,

                                                             P. G. TAIT.

                                      6 GREENHILL GARDENS,

    MY DEAR THOMSON -- I    feared                    EDIN*-, 23/1/62.

                                                     the Porosity wouldn't
suit you. I am sorry I didn't send a scheme of some

other chapter which might have passed muster more

easily. . . .

    I have done nothing more in the Book line, except

receive, and answer, as you find enclosed, another note

...from Macmillan. Make your comments on both, and

send on, or back, as you see fit.

x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 461

    I think we should put in parabolic, circular, etc.,

motions in Division               V., Kinematics
the force of cycle orif    Chap.  -- what                                don't see
                       Socrates                  the             us
                         C I.,                                           auv K in
                                                       ?) is
an Alfabet at aul                                             I

                                                          I (I
                       duz as ouel and should also

there go into Velocity and Acceleration.                                 am like

M. Scot's Demon and want work, anything short of ropes
of sea-sand and even that not impracticable, for the new
    I                  is
                            is
          ?
                .

             it . ;

           /
dodge for submarine cables founded on glass-thread.

Shall try Chap. VI. " Experience," or II. " Statics,"
                                                                 it ii.
or what          . want work (for must say again) and
                                  I

II  will take out either in writing the Book, or in reading

  what may bear upon the above question -- since can't
                                  I
                                         if

                                               it .
                                                     is is .

                                                          I
  get sunlight for my own investigations. . Tell me then

  by the beginning of next week (Monday a holiday, and

    shall golf all day at Musselburgh                            fine) what to

  attack, and to what extent, and shall set to with vigour.

  My Quaternion Paper and my article on Heat are both
  despatched to the printers so that my hands are (with
  the exception of Examination Papers and Answers)
  almost free in the evenings, especially as have given up
                     is
  the idea that                                                  to be obtained
  at a dinner                             ;                      profitable con

                                               I
                 othr ereeveninganypaprlteya--surtehe(eovennly)

  versation being   that at which either science or                      tobacco  is
  freely admitted                                                        sublunary
  approximation    --their union being the nearest
                   to perfection. . .--Yours truly,
                                  .

                                                                 P. G. TAIT.

    W. Thomson, Esq.

                                                               G. G., E., 28/1/62.6

    MY DEAR THOMSON --The Demon will probably have

  his hands full enough this week, as he has one of his

  general Exns on Saturday, and      a        Medical d° soon, for

  both of which papers have to be made and printed, and,

  moreover, he has two papers to read to the R.S.E. on

  Monday night, and a batch of       1  1    exercises to examine
  before Friday first. However, he         3" bon diable au fond,"

                                        is

  and may perhaps manage 20 or 30 pages of Properties
  of Matter before the week out. . .
                       is            .

    Your article on the Laws of Motion pleased me very

462        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                      CHAP.

much, so far as it went, save that on thinking it over
after reading I felt that at the beginning and end it was

not expanded enough to be at once intelligible to an

average student. But that is easily supplied, and is even

possible on a proof-sheet, where I daresay much of our

work will undergo a little emery or filing down. It is

rather curious to observe that Newton's first Law defines

time to be an independent variable. For my own part I
own that I think this a very satisfactory way of putting

the whole ; for I don't believe in time at all, only in order

of succession, and intervals of d° measured as above.

By all means drop the finer Book if you like. I put

it in that sort of way to Macmillan, as I told him we had

only adopted it to satisfy what we imagined would be his

peculiar pride. But the Cambridge books are ridiculously

dear, and I think he may learn a useful lesson on that

point by being made to do the affair cheap for once.

We can afford to do the humility dodge, for no one will
suspect us of the " darling sin " so neatly described by-

Coleridge. If we can do the two volumes under 2O/-,
I think we may consider ourselves to have succeeded.

Future editions, as requiring few new cuts, etc., will, of

course, be producible more cheaply.

     Well, be it Cinematics (do you propose to say
kinematics?), I wonder where we got kine, and kyloes,
and kangaroos, besides kirks and kirn, etc., etc. But I

can't help looking on Cin£matique and Conductibilit£ as

being equally French and equally erroneous. Macdonall

is not a man to swear by on points like these ; but still,

though     wrong,    there is a   dignity   about   them which the
sibilants   possess                delight  in the
                      not --they                    dust, grovelling.
So, in haste, -- Yours truly,
                                                      P. G. TAIT.

Prof. W. Thomson.

                                                              6 G. G., E., 30/1/62.

    MY DEAR THOMSON -- I wish you would send back

my sketch of the Chap, on Prop. of Matter, with your
amendments, etc., and I will have it written as soon as

is consistent with care and completeness. I cannot

x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 463

ifcommence without my skeleton (why not sceleton ? or
you like French, SQUELETON ??)....

  ... Jan. 31, 1862.
             I have been so harassed by unavoidable work
that I have done nothing of the book this week, besides,
I had not my sceleton of the Prop, of Matter. . . . Also

tell me soon what you have done in the Macmillan business,

AT ALL EVENTS ACT SPEEDILY, so that there may be no

delay in the appearance of our advertisement. If Mac.

is satisfied that his honour is safe in bringing out a cheap

book, I am sure we won't object, as the condition of our

students is becoming from year to year more lamentable
                          edIfitiowne--gsoayin
as regards text - books.                          for  a    cheap one
we may print a larger                           2000      as a lower

limit. . . .

              6 GREENHILL GARDENS, Feb. 5, 1862.

     I hope you have got the letter off, and so got the
advertisement started. As the French say, je m'ennuie
d'elle, i.e., I long to see it in print.

      I have received with great delight your letters on
Capillarity, especially the foam question, which latter is
one that I have very often studied in my summer musings
on a clear glass bottle just emptied of its frothy contents

direct from Burton. . . .

    I return your Axiomata with a few notes. I am now
busily at work with " Prop. of Matter," of which by the
middle of next week I will send for an MS. volume, the
reverse of each leaf being left blank for interpolations
from either of us. When the latter have been carried to
their limit I shall recopy and remould the whole, and it
will be ready for the printer.

  ... Feb. 6, 1862.
            I promised to write you last night about Prop.
Matter. . . . And, indeed, having just now reperused your
letters of New Year time, I think I see my way to a great
part of that chapter without giving you any further trouble
till you see it in MSS.

464             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                CHAP.

    P.S. -- Six hours' work done since writing the above,

and I have got well on with the chapter. Having come
to Intrtia, I shall go to bed forthwith.

.... Feb. 17, 1862.
          I am glad you are going to do the Cinemato-
morphology, or whatever you call                           will help me
                                               it,
                                                   it

                                                           I

                                                                                ;
greatly in writing about Elasticity, etc. (which am now
at), to have an ideal chapter of yours to refer to and
                                                                                   II
shall send you, when you wish a copy of your sketchI

ot your treatment of it And am most thankful for theit,

data for Friction and Cohesion, whose turn                       is  about to

come. .
a
                               II 6  GREENHILL GARDENS, EDINR.,
        .
                  .MY DEAR THOMSON --                  4/3/'62.  " Elasticity."
                                     have just received
           IThe first part of should, think, be dispatched in " Sine-
matics " (this
                    a is  the true way to soften           K). The latter
                      I it                        a
portion, with             few references and dates, and with a
                                                        I
condensation of your observations on Faraday and others,
                                                                I
will slip very nicely into the Properties of Matter which

am at work at.              shall, therefore, in what sent to you

as first essay, leave out what you have just written,

as, indeed, have done with those parts of Capillarity,

Cohesion, and Friction which you sent me. And have

followed the same rule with all my own work, namely,

writing in red the title of anything to be afterwards put

in in copying for press,             that were a matter of such
                               I if

                                            it
                                                        a
simplicity that one could scribble             at second's notice.

All the really cranky bits have written in full, in order

that you may have a fair shot at them even at this early

stage.   is I  intend to remain some time in Edinr after the
session        over, and shall devote that to incorporating
                            I

and completing that most important chapter.

Sound and Light can cause us no trouble whatever in

writing, and may be left for leisure time of wh we have at

least six months in prospect.

I    think the Dynamical Top might be done more briefly

while quite as lucidly as in Maxwell's paper, but that's no

x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 465

reason for your not getting a copy from him for the
paste and scissors process. I have a copy (also bound up),
which I will consult carefully to-morrow. . . .

You are a little hard on the Macmillanites ; but the

article is a  mI.Tos.--tfoiYnr oteuorreussrtitnrfguinlyao,lnec,haanpdterth--e  paste and scissors
will be at
Energy." .                                                                     "Conservation of

                                                                                  P. G. TAIT.

W. Thomson, Esq.

Thomson had told his brother-in-law Dr. King,

at the beginning of 1862, of the projected book,
which was to be " elementary and non-mathematical."

His letter to Helmholtz (see p. 425), ten months
later, lets us know that by that time one sheet on
" Kinematics " was in type, and that they hoped to

have the first volume (ending with a                                           chapter  on
" Sound ") out by the summer of 1863.

    Helmholtz replied :--

    Your undertaking to write a text-book of Natural
Philosophy is very praiseworthy, but will be exceedingly
tedious. At the same time, I hope it will suggest ideas
to you for much valuable work. It is in writing a book
like that that one best appreciates the gaps still left in

science.

By March 1863, 400 pages were in type, and

they   still hoped (see  p. 428) to  have                                      a   volume of
700   pages, including   " Dynamics  " and                                      "  Properties

of Matter," published by the middle of June.
The Glasgow University Calendar for 1863-64,

announcing the Natural   Philosophy                                                classes,

states :--

The text-books to be used are : Elements of Dynamics
(first part now ready), printed by George Richardson,
VOL. I
                                                                                   2H

466  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                           CHAP.

University Printer ; Elements of Natural Philosophy, by
Professor W. Thomson and P. G. Tait (two Treatises to

be published before November : Macmillan).

    The Elements of Dynamics (1863) mentioned

above was a small volume of eighty-one pages, com
piled by Mr. (now Professor) John Ferguson, then
a member of Thomson's laboratory corps, partly

from the sheets already completed and partly from

Thomson's lectures. It was hurried into existence

to meet the pressing needs of students, but dropped
when the maturer work appeared, and used to be

referred to as "the Glasgow pamphlet." It was

reprinted at least once, and in 1869 had been slightly
enlarged. As for the Treatise, it grew and grew

under its authors' hands, and its appearance -- alas !
for the vanity of human wishes --was delayed until
1867, when Vol. I. appeared. It was printed, not

as originally intended as a private enterprise, but
at the charges of the delegates of the Clarendon

Press.

    The late Professor Ayrton1 tells this recollection
of his student days :--

At that time the advanced proofs of only a fragment

of that book had been printed off for the class. We saw

the book grow, we felt pride in its growth, we almost

felt that we were helping that growth. That book by

" T and T'," as is well known, consists of chapters which

are more original than the papers usually read before

scientific societies.  Only    one volume has   ever  appeared
                               never will now.
-- the second, alas !  alas !

To test the power of the Clarendon Press to publish such

1 " Kelvin in the 'Sixties," Popular Science Monthly, March 1908.

x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 467

a book, Tait and he wrote down at random complicated

eathsqoucuaogtpihoitenssi,toliwfnoaenusldoofrbiwgeihnaoallglyopouadnpienjrot--eklelitgotibovleasreinordeuassoouontfintthhgee, irapnrfodrioeftnshd--esn.

And one day Thomson told me, with a twinkle in his eye,
" Nobody has yet found any mistakes in that paper."

    With the long delays over the proof-sheets Tait
became very impatient. To Thomson, then at
Creuznach, he wrote in June 1864: --

I wish you would go ahead. I am getting quite sick

ot the Great Book, for I see plainly that if you don't send

immediately the whole mass of your self-imposed contri

...bution to Elastic Bodies we shall not get out in September.
         I am particularly anxious that my time should be

employed here, as I must stay here ; but if you send only

scraps, and these at rare intervals, what can I do ? You

have not given me even a hint as to what you want done

in our present chapter about Statics of Liquids and Gases !
...I have Kinetics of a particle almost ready.
                                                 I sent

you a great bundle of proof-sheets nearly ten days ago,

but you have taken no notice of these whatever.

Actual publication of the book took place in

October 1867, the same month that witnessed the

publication of Tait's Quaternions.  It bore the

title :--

    A Treatise on Natural Philosophy. By Sir William
Thomson, LL.D., D.C.L., F.R.S., and P. G. Tait, M.A.,

vol. i. Clarendon Press Series. Oxford and London :
Macmillan & Co., 1867.

    It consisted of 727 pages, and professed to be
the first volume of four, of which the complete

treatise was to consist. Immediately on its appear
ance it was greeted with a chorus of approval, and

468  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                     CHAP.

recognized as marking an advance over any and
every text -book of Natural Philosophy that had
hitherto been written. Any one who might doubt

the enormous and enduring service rendered to
science by this work has only to compare any recent
treatise with the best of those in existence before

1867, to be convinced on the point. The forty-two

years that have elapsed since its publication have
made the work so familiar to every student of
Natural Philosophy that any analysis of its contents
would be an impertinence here. But attention may
be drawn to one or two features that are charac

teristic.

    The Preface opened with a quotation from Fourier,
which has been transferred to the heading of the

present chapter.

    The authors then begin :--

     The term Natural Philosophy was used by NEWTON,
and is still used in British Universities, to denote the
investigation of laws in the material world, and the de
duction of results not directly observed. Observation,
classification, and description of phenomena precede
Natural Philosophy in every department of natural
science. The earlier stage in some branches, commonly
called Natural History and might with equal pro
priety be so called in all others.
            ;

                  is,
                       it

    They then state the plan of construction of the
text: --

Our object  twofold to give tolerably complete
            is is
                                        :
                                                       a
account of what now known of Natural Philosophy, in

language adapted to the non-mathematical reader and
                                                          ;

to furnish, to those who have the privilege which high

x  THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE           469

mathematical acquirements confer, a connected outline of
the analytical processes by which the greater part of that
knowledge has been extended into regions as yet un

explored by experiment.

   To effect this double object the text was arranged

in numbered paragraphs in two sizes of type : the

large type being the non-mathematical part for general

readers ; the small type being reserved for the more

mathematical portions. Not infrequently a propo

sition is stated first in the large type, generally, and
often with geometrical illustration, then restated

with due proof in mathematical form in a paragraph,

or several paragraphs, of smaller type. If the result

seems inelegant to a typographical connoisseur, its

essential convenience for readers of different classes

is incontestable. Geometrical diagrams were added

unstintingly to the earlier sections.  the authors
    For the benefit of mathematicians

--added this significant hint :

      We believe that the mathematical reader will especially
 profit by a perusal of the large type portion of this
 volume ; as he will thus be forced to think out for himself
 what he has been too often accustomed to reach by a
 mere mechanical application of analysis.

    Also this warning :--

      Nothing can be more fatal to progress than a too
 confident reliance on mathematical symbols ; for the student
is only too apt to take the easier course, and consider the
formula and not the fact as the physical reality.

    Another pregnant sentence of the Preface runs :--

      One object which we have constantly kept in view is

470  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

the grand principle of the Conservation of Energy. Accord
ing to modern experimental results, especially those of
JOULE, Energy is as real and as indestructible as Matter.

    Thus for the first time the co-ordinating principle
of energy was made the basis of a systematic treatise.
Then again the authors, discerning that the geometry
of motion can be treated apart from the forces that

produce the motion, introduced kinematics as a

definite study prior to dynamics. This enabled them

to introduce at an early stage the analysis by the

method of Fourier of periodic motions, the use of

generalized co-ordinates, and the spherical harmonic
expansion of arbitrary functions, branches of the

higher mathematics much needed for the problems
of dynamics, but previously ignored by the writers
of text-books and never before reduced to a simple
and relatively comprehensible form. Amongst the
novelties were the principle of varying action, the
ignoration of co-ordinates, and a discussion of kinetic

stability, also such matters of practical bearing as
the degrees of freedom of a mechanism, the design
of geometric slides, and a host of beautiful and

important things about the gyroscope and the dyna

mics of rotation. The second part of the volume
dealt with abstract dynamics, the laws of attraction
and potential theory, the statics of solids and fluids,

including a very beautiful discussion of torsional

rigidity, and a good deal of geodetic matter regard
ing the figure of the earth, and other applications
of the theory of elasticity. The work included a
vast quantity of original matter, some of it gathered

x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 471

up from Thomson's fragmentary investigations, some
of it written specially for the book, and much added
while it was going through the press, to the dismay
of his colleague and the discomfiture of the printers.

   A review in the Scotsman of November 6, 1868,

evidently from the pen of one who knew the authors

personally, says :--

...Two authors better qualified for a great joint work
have seldom or never attempted it.                   They are to a
certain extent a happy complement
                                             of each other --the

one being deeply speculative, but slightly nebulous in the

utterance of his original thoughts, as often happens with

profound thinkers ; the other, though not deficient in

originality, being clear, dashing, direct, and practical. They

are both honest and candid, free from that solemn humbug

which has been known to hang as a sort of sacred curtain

about professors even of Natural Philosophy.

The world of which they give the Natural Philosophy

is not the abstract world of Cambridge examination

papers -- in which matter is perfectly homogeneous, pulleys

pinecrofemcptlryesssimbloeot--h,   strings   perfectly elastic, liquids perfectly
                                  but it is  the concrete world of the senses,

which approximates to, but always falls short alike of the

ideal of the mathematical as of the poetic imagination.

No iron beam is there met with so rigid as not to bend,

no sphere of metal equally tense in its parts, no body

that does not yield so much as to be incapable of having

a fixed centre of gravity. Nowhere is there actual rest ;

nowhere is there perfect smoothness ; nowhere motion

without friction.

    Four years later a German translation by Helm-
holtz and Wertheim was issued, when Helmholtz
took the opportunity in a Preface to point out the
remarkable features of the book. Amid so much

original matter he had encountered new words

472  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

difficult of translation. Thomson was a precisian
as to language, and shared with his brother James
a passion for creating new names where needed for
the connotation of new ideas. Never before had
dynamics been treated with so clear a grasp of

physical principles. To give clear expression to

clear ideas new definitions were often necessary.
But the fixed determination of the authors to keep

in the forefront the physical side in all their mathe
matical demonstrations made the work seem scrappy
and tentative to those who looked for a formal and
consistent analytical exposition. Helmholtz, far from
condemning this characteristic, hailed it as leading,
in spite of the inevitable lacunae and disjointed
transitions, to a wider outlook than the formal

treatises of earlier and less original writers. He

told the reader who would not grudge the effort
to master the work that he would reap an ample

reward. He expressed the gratitude of the scientific
world to Sir William Thomson, one of the most

inventive and penetrating of thinkers, for admitting
us to the laboratory of his thoughts and unravelling

for us the clues which had helped him in controlling

and ordering the entangled and refractory materials
with which he had to deal. He pointed out that

m this work actuality, consistency to physical fact,
was preferred to elegance of mathematical method.
" Perhaps when science is perfected physical and
mathematical order may coincide." Helmholtz,
who himself in his lectures on mathematical physics
treated mathematics "as the means, and not as the

x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 473

end," could not but hail a work conceived in this

spirit.

    The book sold rapidly, and for a time went out
of print. It brought, however, a very inadequate
remuneration to its authors. Indeed, in March 1869
the delegates of the Oxford Press wrote to Tait

that the book was still so much in debt to the Press

in the actual outlay that there was no balance pay

able to the authors. In January 1870, after accounts
had been presented, Tait wrote to Thomson, " We
do look like a couple of sold gorillas ! " The dis
pute was only settled in March 1872 by the friendly
intervention of Mr. Alexander Macmillan.

    To meet the immediate needs of students the

authors in 1867 printed a small octavo volume of 1 20
pages, consisting of the first two chapters of their
then unpublished Elements. The title-page styles
the work Elementary Dynamics, by Sir W. Thomson

and P. G. Tait. It was printed by the Clarendon

Press, and is now exceedingly scarce. Another

private edition, slightly enlarged, appeared in 1868.
    In 1873 there was published by the Clarendon

Press the Elements of Natural Philosophy, Part I.
This book, of 279 pages, of large octavo size, was

partly reprinted from the Elementary Dynamics (as
is shown by retention of certain misprints), enlarged
in certain paragraphs, but with the addition of

Chapters V. and VI., remodelled from the larger
Treatise, and also of Chapter VII., " Statics of Solids

and Fluids," taken from the previously mentioned

Glasgow pamphlet.

474  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

    The second edition of the Treatise was not ready
till 1879, when Part I. appeared, revised and con

siderably extended ; the more important additions

being an Appendix of 47 pages on Laplace's co
efficients, and another of 30 pages on the calculating
machines invented in the intervening years by
Thomson and his brother, also new sections on

degrees of freedom and geometrical slides, on motions
of cycloidal systems, and on gyrostatics. The
proofs of this edition were read by Mr. W. Burn-
side l and Professor Chrystal.

    Part II., in much enlarged form, came out in
1883. The authors then announced that their in

tention of proceeding with the other volumes was
" now definitely abandoned." The most important
share in editing of this part was taken by Mr. (now
Sir) George Darwin, who himself added numerous
valuable sections on the figure of the earth, elastic
tides, and an Appendix on tidal friction. Thomson

himself rewrote much and added much on the theory
of elasticity, and the equilibrium of rotating masses.
With regard to this last matter, the authors make

the remark: "Year after year, questions of the

multiplicity of possible figures of revolution have

been almost incessantly before us, and yet it is only
now, under the compulsion of finishing this second
part of our first volume, with hope for a second

volume abandoned, that we have succeeded in finding
anything approaching full light on the subject."
Three Appendices, On the Secular Cooling of the

               1 Now Professor at the Royal Naval College, Greenwich.

x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 475

Earth, On the Age of the Sun's Heat, and On the
Size of Atoms, were inserted. They are noticed

elsewhere (pp. 537, 538, and 566).

    It is possible from scattered references to infer
the proposed contents of the other volumes that

were never published. Sound was to have been

included in Vol. I. Vol. II. was to have dealt with
Optics; but later this was changed, and Vol. II.

was to include waves and vibrations in spherical
masses of fluid or of elastic solids, and the velocity
of long free waves. There was to be a volume
on Heat, containing a chapter on the various
forms of Energy. There was to be a volume on

Electricity. At least a dozen references are made

in Vol. I. to the projected volume on the Properties

of Matter, which looms large in prospect. In it
there was to be a discussion of the question : What

is Matter ? and another on the subjectivity of Force.
Newton's experiments on the pendulum and the
relations between mass and weight were apparently
to lead to a discussion of gravity as the action of
parallel forces on all the molecules of a body, and
the non-interference with gravity by the interposition
of other matter. There was to be an exposition of

spherical harmonics as applied to cylindrical problems
corresponding to the spherical problems applied in
Vol. I. to solid and hollow elastic bodies. Forces
of elasticity, and of imperfect elasticity, and the
viscosity and compressibility of liquids were to be
dealt with ; and the work done in a fluid by dis
torting stress was to be considered. There were to

476     LIFE OF LORD KELVIN        CHAP.

be chapters on Friction and on the coarse-grained-
ness of Matter. Doubtless all this would have been

worked up with the illuminating penetration that
marked the one completed volume. But it was not
to be. The little volume which Tait, in 1885,

      it it a
                                                                it

                                                                                           is,
brought out under the same title, excellent as it
was purely elementary work. Professor Gray,

commenting on the keen regret that all physicists

feel at the non-fulfilment of the original plan, singles
out the " Properties of Matter " as the loss to be

most lamented. "No one," he says, "can ever

write as Thomson would have written it. His

students obtained in his lectures glimpses of the

things  might have contained, and  was most

eagerly looked for. If that chapter only had

been given, the loss caused by the disappear

ance of the book would not have been so irre

parable."

   A story was current in Scotland thirty years ago

that part of the Optics had been written, but that

the manuscript had been lost by Thomson. He

certainly lost, while travelling, in the year 1873, a

bag containing papers, but the actual contents are
not known. After the main labour of collaboration

in the preparation of the second edition of the great

treatise was over, and the authors had agreed that

no further volumes would appear, each seems for
                        I.
                            I

                                                                                   a
time to have devoted himself to the subjects which

most interested himself.  asked Lord Kelvin once

why no more than Vol. had been given to the world.

His reply was that the ground they had proposed

x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 477

to cover had in the years that followed been largely
covered by such books as Rayleigh's Sound (1873),

Maxwell's Electricity and Magnetism (1873), and
Lamb's Hydrodynamics (1879), and that he and
Tait had so much specialized work of their own

that they felt they had better frankly abandon the
idea of proceeding further.

    The articles on " Elasticity" and " Heat," which

Thomson wrote for the Encyclopedia Britannica

in 1878, doubtless contain matter that would have

appeared had the volumes on these subjects of the
Treatise been composed. The article on "Elasticity"

includes much that was already contained in Vol. I.;
that on "Heat" is noticed elsewhere (see p. 688).

    The following letter to Professor Simon New-

comb gives Thomson's own statement of the
abandonment of the completion of the Treatise.

                                                                    26/6 April, 1 88 1.

    DEAR PROF. NEWCOMB, -- . . . I am working hard now

at reprint of Vol. Part II., of Thomson and Tait's Natural
           !

                       I.,
Philosophy which will contain some considerable additions.;
Alas, alas for vols. ii., iii., and iv. Ars longa vita brevis.

   am afraid neither of us will live to see them. We are
II                          Ta ;
  both working hard in different branches of our study, and

    hope there some good work in both of us yet before
           I

                    is
we die.    am bringing out reprint of all my papers

already published. About 70 octavo pages are already
in print. It will fill three or four octavo volumes, and

will, in occasional different papers, bring out great deal;
that would have written for " and T'," volumes ii., iii.,
    II                                       Ia
  and iv.

         look forward also to possibly separate publicationa
on " Hydrodynamics," and on the " Equilibrium and

  Motion of Elastic Solids." Alas however        have been
                            !

478         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                   CHAP.

absolutely stopped, for three or four months now, in the

work on " T and T'," Part II., Vol. and in the reprint of

my own papers, on account of incessant and pressing
engagements both here and in London. To-morrow

become freed from my University duties and the day

--after hope to take refuge in the Lalla Rookh, where

very soon shall get to work, at least on my reprint.

Believe me, with kind regards, yours very truly,

                                               WILLIAM THOMSON.
     I
             I

                                                        I.,

                                                                                                               ;

                                                                  I

    After the death of Professor Tait in the autumn
of 1901, Lord Kelvin gave to the Royal Society of
Edinburgh the following appreciation of his illus
trious colleague, as reported in the Scotsman of
December --
            3
     The President read an appreciation of the late Pro
                :
fessor Tait. After referring to his early life, he said In
1860 Tait was elected to succeed Forbes as ProfessorI
                                                                                                  ;
of Natural Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh.                                                   :
It was then that became acquainted with him, and we

quickly resolved to join in writing book on Natural
                                 a
Philosophy, beginning with                      a
                                    purely geometrical pre

liminary chapter on Kinematics, and going on thence

instantly to Dynamics, the science of Force, as founda

tion of all that was to follow.  I  found him full of rever

ence for Andrews and Hamilton, and enthusiasm for

science. Nothing else worth living for, he said with

heartfelt sincerity,  I  believe, though his life belied the

saying, as no one ever was more thorough in public duty

or more devoted to family and friends. His two years
as " don " of Peterhouse, and six of professorial gravity

in Belfast, had not wholly polished down the rough

gaiety nor dulled in the slightest degree the cheerful
humour of his student days and this was a large factor
          a
                                                 a;

                                                  O

                                                                                          !
in the success of our alliance for heavy work, in which we
                                   "A
persevered  for eighteen years.                                                            merry  heart goes half
the day,    sad one tires in     mile                                                          "  The making of

  x THE EPOCH-MAKING TREATISE 479

  the first part of " T and T' " was treated as a perpetual

  joke, in respect to the irksome details of interchange of
  drafts for " copy," amendments in type, and final correc

  tions of proofs. It was lightened by interchange of visits

  between Greenhill Gardens, or Drummond Place, or

  George Square, and Largs, or Arran, or the old or new

  College of Glasgow; but of necessity it was largely carried

  on by post. Even the postman laughed when he

  delivered one of our missives, about the size of a postage

  stamp, out of a pocket handkerchief in which he had tied

    to make sure of not dropping       on the way. . .
  it,

                                                                 ;

                                                         it

                                                                                                                                                      .
  "AbAobusttrac1t878Dywneamgiocts  to  the end of our "Division                                                                                        II." on
                                                                                                                                                        initial
                                   "     and, according to our

  programme, should then have gone on to " Properties of
  Matter," "Heat," "Light," "Electricity," "Magnetism."

  Instead of this we agreed that for the future we could

  each work more conveniently and on more varied subjects,

  without the constraint of joint effort to produce as much

  as we could of an all-comprehensive text-book of Natural

  Philosophy. Thus our book came to an end with only
                                                                                                                                                       .

                                                                                                                                                             a
  foundation laid for our originally intended structure. . .

  After enjoying eighteen years' joint work with Tait on

  our book, twenty-three years without this, tie have given

  me undiminished pleasure in all my intercourse with him.

II  cannot say that our meetings were never unruffled. We

  choandcekieveanblediffseurbejneccets--(mquoarteerfnreioqnuse, ntenaegrrgeye,mtheentsd)aoilny                                                         every
                                                                                                                                                       news,

  politics, quicquid agunt homines, etc. etc. We never

  agreed to differ, always fought out. But was almost
    is
                          it

                                            it
  as great a pleasure to fight with Tait as to agree with

  him. His death a loss to me which cannot, as long as

    live, be replaced.

      In 1875 appeared anonymously a work of specu
  lative theology called The Unseen Universe, the
  authorship of which was afterwards acknowledged
  by Professors Balfour Stewart and Tait. On its

  publication a Glasgow bookseller announced as
                                                it

                                                          a

480  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP, x

new volume by Thomson and Tait. Sir William
Thomson did not like the book, but he did not even

trouble to put out a formal contradiction.
    One other piece of literary work belongs to this

period. This was the issue in 1871, by Sir William
Thomson and Professor Hugh Blackburn, of a fine
reprint of Newton's Principia. They found that
all editions of the Principia were out of print, and
so, partly in order to have available copies to award
as prizes to University students, they had a hand
some large -type reprint made of Newton's last
Latin edition, without note or comment, unaltered

save for corrigenda or typographical errors.

        CHAPTER XI

        THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH -- SUCCESS

HAPPILY the story of the Atlantic Cable does not

end with the disappointment of 1858. Public
opinion was, however, adverse. Mr. Robert

Stephenson, in July 1859, declared that no cable

was sufficiently durable to render it a satisfactory or

remunerative speculation. In a debate at the Civil

Engineers in November 1860, the president, Mr. G.

P. Bidder, stated that submarine telegraph engineer

ing was " a branch of the profession the practice of

which, up to the present time, had been signally

unsuccessful. Upwards of 9000 miles of submarine

telegraph cable had been laid down, of which not

more than 3000 miles could be said to be   in work
                                           curse of
ing order. . . . Patents had proved the    required

telegraphy." In these circumstances it

much faith to revive the project of an Atlantic

telegraph. After several years of delay fresh capital

was, however, raised, largely by the assistance of Mr.

Brassey and Mr. (afterwards Sir) John Fender ; and
with the co-operation of the contractors, who took

nearly half the financial risk, ^600,000 was available

to construct and lay a new cable.  Much experience

VOL. I  481                                          21

482  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

had been gained since 1858 by the laying of other
cables between Malta and Alexandria, in the

Persian Gulf, and elsewhere. Further, the famous

British Association Committee of 1861-62 had, on
the suggestion of Bright and Latimer Clark, adopted
names for the units of electrical measurement, and

had taken a great step forward in perfecting means
for electric testing. Cromwell Varley had devised
the "artificial cable," with which it was possible to

study in the laboratory the properties of cables in

general, and had invented the use of the signalling

condenser to sharpen the electric pulses, so

augmenting the speed of working. A scientific

committee, of which Thomson, Wheatstone, and

Whitworth were members, was appointed by the

Directors, and gave zealous and gratuitous assist

ance. They examined into the various types
of cable, and then, out of 120 different specimens,
selected a suitable construction. This, in accordance

with the earlier advice of Bright and Thomson, was
of a larger size, with 300 Ib. of copper and 400 Ib. of
gutta-percha per nautical mile. The copper con
ductor was three times as thick as that in the first
cable. With its armouring of manila-covered wire

the cable weighed, per mile, 1'8 tons in air, or 07

tons in water, and could withstand a pull of 8 tons.

At this time there existed but one ship capable of

holding the entire cable, and this ship, the Great
Eastern, of 22,500 tons, was lying idle, having been
found unsuitable as a traffic boat. As she was

furnished with both screw and paddles she was

xi  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  483

specially well adapted for manoeuvring. She was
chartered and equipped for cable service. The British

Government, after protracted negotiations, guaran

teed ^20,000 a year and 8 per cent on the capital ;

the guarantee to be strictly conditional on success,

and to be continued only during the working of the

cable. By July 1865 the cable was shipped on

board at Greenwich. De Sauty was able to send

messages through the coiled-up cable at the rate of
3 '8 words per minute. Thomson and Varley, using
a new curb-signal key, found a speed of 6 words
per minute practicable, and were confident of attain

ing 1 2 words when the cable should be uncoiled and
laid. The ship was under the command of Captain
(later Sir James) Anderson, with Canning and
Clifford as engineers, and De Sauty as chief elec
trician. The staff and crew numbered nearly 500
persons. Varley and Thomson accompanied the
expedition on behalf of the Atlantic Telegraph
Company as consulting experts, Thomson being
final referee in case of any difference of opinion

between De Sauty and Varley, but he had no

power of interference or control, and was simply to

report on the testing and certify results. Willoughby
Smith represented the contractors. With them was
Dr. (later Sir W. Howard) Russell as newspaper
correspondent Staff- commander Moriarty (for
merly of the Agamemnon) joined as navigation

expert. At first some trouble was found with the

ship's compasses, which were perturbed by the iron

of the cable.

484 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

    Thomson joined the ship on July 14th, which
then steamed quietly to Valencia. On July 23rd,
the heavy shore-end having been laid by the Caroline,
the splice was made and the Great Eastern started
westwards, accompanied by the Terrible and the
Sphinx. Just before leaving, Thomson wrote to his
brother-in-law, Dr. King :--

                                                    S.S. GREAT EASTERN,

                                  Monday, July 23 [1865], 2 P.M.
MY DEAR DAVID -- One line to say all well, and that

we are on the point of moving permanently westwards.

The splice is now more than half made on board the
Caroline (which, till Wedy. was a great anxiety to

us). The weather is beautiful, and all are in the highest
spirits as to the undertaking. I would like to have

written you a proper letter telling something of what we
have been doing, but I have had a great deal of arrears

of work to do at the few moments I have taken from

open air and the deck, and my duties in the electric room.

One thing, however, is that three days ago I went up
Hungry Hill, 2050 feet high, with Cap. Anderson,
Field, Varley, and others, and that, tho' I was a little

stiff the morning after, my leg, and body generally, have
been much the better for it. We were out about 6 h.

altogether, with plenty of wind and rain.
    I have a very pleasant recollection of the few days we

spent with you before leaving. Now I must stop, to get

this off in time to go on shore by the Hawk.

    Varley wrote immediately correcting the false state
ments of The Times article of yesterday week. We

considered very carefully the terms in wh. he should

write, and I preferred a very moderate statement. He is
most useful -- quite up to his share both in profit (prospec

tive) and credit.  E.  and the  children. -- I am,  your  affec
     With love to

tionate brother,                W. THOMSON.

xi  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  485

     After 84 miles had been laid a fault was found,
 but speedily picked up and repaired. By July 26th

 they were over the bank where the sea-bed falls
 rapidly from 550 to over 1750 fathoms. Then it
 was discovered that there was no sounding appar
 atus on board either the Great Eastern or the

 Terrible ! On July 29th, when 750 miles had been

 paid out, another fault was observed, and also

repaired. In each case a bit of iron wire, of the
armouring, had been, by accident, driven into the
core of the cable as it was drawn out of the tanks,

and was not discovered till submerged in the sea.
 By the morning of August 2nd, 1200 miles had been
paid out, when at noon all signals suddenly ceased.
Great was the consternation at Valencia where

hitherto the operations had been followed with
utmost satisfaction. Tests indicated a " dead earth "

at a distance of 1250 miles, the inference being that
the cable had parted at that distance and sunk to

the bottom. A week passed and the cable remained

silent. No news came from the ship. On August
loth, while still without news, the Directors called a

meeting of the Company, and with quiet confidence

passed resolutions for consolidating the stocks and
for a fresh share issue to raise sufficient new capital

to construct and lay an entire new cable. Not till
the 1 6th, when the Great Eastern appeared at
Valencia, was it known that the cable had indeed

parted in mid-ocean during the turning of the ship
after hauling back a short length of cable to recover
a fault, and lay in some 2100 fathoms of water. But

486 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

it was also learned that she had made attempts even

in water of that depth to recover the cable by

grappling-irons, and had thrice succeeded in finding

and lifting but each time had again lost through

failure of the swivel-bolts in the gear used for raising

the grapnels. They returned only when they had
exhausted their supply of ropes. To man the
               it,
                                                                           a

                                                                  it

entire staff were unanimous as to the practicability

of raising and completing the lost cable, but the
Directors decided to wait till next year.

On board the Great Eastern some of the cheer

ful souls had amused themselves by producing daily

in lithograph a lightsome journal somewhat in the

manner of Punch. From this we extract two para

graphs as sample --
is                      :
                                                    Wednesday, Aug. 2, 1865.
   A                             a
Professor Thomson gave              lecture on " Electric Continuity "
          aa
                    aabefore select audience. The learned gentleman having arranged

his apparatus, the chief object of which was a small brass pot,

looking like          sfmollaolwl slan--te"rnThweithlectluorneg   wick  sticking out  at the
top, spoke as           :                                        which      am about  to give
                                                                      I
                                             ." a
    on   subject which has ever been               of great interest to the intel
lectual                                              The luncheon bell ringing,
         portion of mankind, and --

the learned Professor was left speaking.

         novel and economical mode of illuminating London and
other cities by electricity has been patented by Professor Thomson,

It condenses the currents by the use of matches, cigars, cigar

                                                                 means of simple but
lights, lucifers, eta, in the streets,             by
                                                                           a

beautiful adaptation of Ruhmkorff's Coil and Papin's Digester,
and will soon, no doubt, supersede the ordinary gas-pipe and

collector.

    On reaching London to take counsel with the

Directors, Thomson wrote to his sister --
                                      is
    A. T. C.
                                                   I:
MY DEAR                 BOARD- ROOM, LONDON, Tuesday,                    Aug. 22, '65.

                        ELIZABETH -- It very kind                        of you to pro

pose my staying at Colville Square, but think for the

xi        THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH                                                                 487

very short time I am to be in London it is scarcely worth

while to leave the hotel. I shall be going away either

to-morrow night or Thursday night, and am here merely

to report to the Boards what I have seen, so far as they

want to know for deciding their course of action. The

favourite idea is that capital for 1 800 miles of new cable

must be raised at once, and the Great Eastern go to sea

next May with and both complete the present line and
               it,
make a new one.        have no doubt but the end of the
                    I

present cable may be recovered and the line finished. The

probability of success depends chiefly on what arrange

ments are made, and wise counsels prevail, believe
                 is                                                                         I
                                                                                                             it
                   if
will be done.

    Meantime there much to settle as to claims between

the two companies, and until these matters are settled

nothing can be done.

    The electric tests were solely arranged by De Sauty,

and we were never allowed to see them before going to

sea. Nothing could well be conceived worse, and the

last fault fatally exemplifies the chief defect of the plan,
which probably was the chief cause of the loss of the

cable.    am writing during meeting, and have only
        I

                      .

                    it

                                                        a
                                                               is

                                                             I
time to close    now before going off with the Secy

and Varley on an important appointment.                                                     am glad

you are   all  well, and that David  enjoying                                               the  sea
bathing.       --Your affectionate brother,
          ..

                       WILLIAM THOMSON.

    On his return to Scotland Thomson wrote to the

Glasgow Daily Herald --
    1
                       KILMICHAEL, BRODICK,
               I
                       ISLE OF ARRAN, BY ARDROSSAN,
                                     it a

                                                                      :
                                                                                         *

                                                            I
                                                                      Sept. 13, 1865.

    SIR -- enclose two articles regarding the Atlantic

Telegraph, which speak for themselves.                                                      have only to

        The articles contained an authoritative declaration as to the improve
ment and the working of cable when submerged, as to the excellent qualities
of the Great Eastern as a cable-laying ship, and as to the certainty of
grappling a cable to lift from two miles' depth. They also gave a financial

statement.

488  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                  CHAP.

add that, should you think proper to publish them you
may trust to the facts being correct on which the writer's

conclusions are founded. I feel more than ever confident

in the early and complete success of the undertaking, as
the operations of this year, though not successful in

immediate result, have proved some most important
truths which could not have been learned from a simple

success unimpeded by accident. What I have actually

seen done by the contractors' engineers during the eight
days following the accident of the 2nd August has con
vinced me that the attempt to recover the lost end next
summer, and to complete the line will in all probability
be successful. And as to the proposed new cable, not
withstanding the possibility of faults such as the three
which appeared in the cable of this year during its sub

mergence, there is every reason to expect confidently that
it will be successfully laid, as the management required to

cut out faults while laying a cable in deep water has been
so well learned from the experience of the recent expedi

tion as to do away with almost all danger for the future

from this source. -- I remain, yours very truly,
                                              WILLIAM THOMSON.

     Resting in the quiet of his house in Arran,

Thomson resumed the writing of the great Treatise.

Tait was expected, and Mr. Alexander Macmillan

came over' from Corrie twice to see him.  In

October Mrs. Thomson wrote :--

    I never saw William better than he is just now, and I

am so glad he is having a little rest before beginning his
winter's work. I do not think we shall be here above a

week or ten days, unless William succeeds in getting this
house taken off his hands for next year (as he expects to
be away), and then we should have a good deal to arrange
about the furniture.

     In December 1865 Thomson gave to the Royal

xi  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  489

Society of Edinburgh an Address l on the forces con
cerned in the laying and lifting of deep-sea cables.
After discussing the forces involved and the engin
eering conditions to be fulfilled, he expressed his
absolute conviction that with strong enough tackle

and a hauling-machine that was both strong enough
and under perfect control, the lifting of a submarine
cable, as good in mechanical quality as that of 1865,
from the bottom at a depth of two miles was cer
tainly practicable. I f one attempt should fail another
would succeed ; their failures had taught them the
road to assured success.

     Thomson was kept busy for many months per
fecting new instruments and testing-appliances in
his laboratory, and running up to London from time
to time to test the cable at Millwall during manu
facture. Professor Ayrton has narrated that Thom
son's secretary not infrequently used to be sent to
the Glasgow railway station a few minutes before
the mail train started, with this urgent message
from Thomson : " I have gone to White's to hurry
on an instrument. The London mail train must on
no account start to-night until I come." And such
was the national importance of the problem, and
such the honour in which Thomson was held, that

the station-master obeyed.
    By March the manufacture had made good pro

gress, and a new mode of continuously testing the
insulation of a cable throughout the entire period of
laying it had been devised by Mr. Willoughby

                     1 Reprinted in Popular lectures, vol. iii. p. 422.

490 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

Smith. On March 19th a      meeting   of Atlantic
Telegraph shareholders was  held in
which Thomson delivered a            Glasgow, at
                            speech.   He empha

sized the advances in cable manufacture since 1858,

the added experience with other cables, and the
improvements in testing. He spoke with entire
confidence as to the success of the project, and had
not the slightest doubt that they would succeed in
transmitting eight words a minute in regular work.

    Early in the summer all was ready for the
expedition. While the ship was lying at Millwall

the public were admitted to view it at one shilling
per head. Thomson wrote to a nephew, telling him
not to ask for him when visiting it. " Every

moment I am on board will be more than occupied,

and I cannot even take friends into the electrical

room. I am sure you know too much of my diffi

culties last year, and are too entirely interested not

to understand this perfectly."

    On July 3 Mrs. William Thomson wrote to her
sister-in-law Mrs. James Thomson :--

                                          25 COLVILLE SQUARE, Sunday Eveng.

     Many thanks for your kind letter, which I should have

answered sooner, but that the last few days have been
very fully occupied in preparing for William's departure,
which was expected to take place to-morrow. Only last
night we learned that the Great Eastern will not sail till
Saturday, and so, although Wm. must be on board to
morrow and the two following days, he will come back to
London before starting.

     I have had to get quite an outfit for him, as when we
left Glasgow we had no idea that we should not be for
some weeks at home before the voyage, and had brought

xi        THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH                            491

very insufficient supplies for that, and a stay of perhaps

two months at Newfoundland. We have had an exceed

ingly anxious time for some weeks, and William has been

terribly worried and annoyed. Now, the agreement with

the Board is signed, and I hope all will go on smoothly.
    My heart fails at the thought of the parting on Satur

day and the very anxious time that must follow. I would

gladly have gone to Valencia, but there are to be no

ladies admitted on board the Gt. Eastern, so the parting

must be here. . . .

so  I am  very  sorry to      hear that   James has been    suffering
    much  from  anxiety.         He is   too conscientious
                                                            -- a rare

fault, but one that I fear causes him suffering. I enclose

a telegram from X., as James may like to see it. If the

cable is laid, and Wm. makes anything by he says
                     .
will be his
full burden            if

                              .

                                      it
                                              is

                                                     I

                                                                      it,
                                                                                   it
             pleasure  debt.JamIefs  will allow him to take the
                                            not laid, wish he may
             of X.'s

not be in debt himself! as in that case he accepts nothing

for expenses even. .

    The Great Eastern, laden with the new cablea
                         it,
and the unlaid portion of the 1865 cable, reached
Berehaven on Thursday, July 12th. The same day

Thomson arrived on board H.M.S. Racoon. At

noon a religious service was held, at which Mrs.
Thomson and several of the Directors were present.

On Friday the Great Eastern picked up the new

shore-end which had been previously laid, spliced the

new cable on to and proceeded on her western
voyage. Thomson was on board, Varley remaining

in charge at Valencia. The Thomson galvanometers
used for testing and signalling were somewhat
improved from those of previous expeditions. The
mirror with its magnet now weighed only three-
quarters of grain, and was suspended on stretched

492        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                          CHAP.

silk fibres; the galvanometer being iron -clad to

eliminate any magnetic disturbances from without.

Before the Racoon returned to port Thomson wrote

the following note to his sister, Mrs. King :--

MY   DEAR         GREA r EASTERN, THE SPLICE      (AT SEA),
           ELIZABETH --YouJumlyay13im/6a6.gine I  have been

too busy for any writing. Margaret will tell you I got

well off. I find a moment to get a note off from here.

The splice is being made, and I am standing beside it
looking on. All goes well.
                            cIabhleo.p--e  every  day   you will
have good news through the                 With   love  to all, I

am, your affect<: brother,                              W. T.

    The weather was dull and wet, but the voyage
comparatively uneventful. The " old coffee-mill," as
the sailors called the paying-out gear, kept grinding

               TEST- ROOM CHRONICLE

away unceasingly. News was received regularly on
board from Europe, and printed in a lithographed
journal, styled The Great Eastern Telegraph and

xi  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH  493

Test-Room Chronicle. The title-page of this publi

cation bore a sketch, here reproduced, by the artist

R. Dudley, depicting Thomson and Varley at the
ends of the cable, on which Captain Anderson is

balancing himself. Beyond a temporary tangle
when six days out, there was not a single hitch in
the laying, and Heart's Content Bay was reached

on Saturday the 27th July. Early the next morn
ing the work was completed by the landing of

the end.

    Communication with Ireland having been main

tained throughout, public excitement rose daily as
the successful issue grew into certainty. Within
twenty - four hours the line was inundated with
messages from Europe. The newspapers sang

paeans of jubilation. In the Glasgow Herald

Scotland acclaimed the achievement as her own.

"Is Captain Anderson not one of the most gallant

of her sea sons ? Is Professor Thomson, the

distinguished electrician, without whose inspiring
genius this great business had not been so easily
achieved, not a Glasgow man ? And were the

principal electrical instruments employed in testing

and working the cable not manufactured by Mr.
White, the optician of this city, though under
Professor Thomson's directions?" It was un

deniably so.

    Thomson meanwhile quietly wrote the following
simple letter as his official " report " to Mr. (later
Sir Richard) Glass.

494 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

                       GREA T EASTERN, HEART'S CONTENT,

                                Aug. 6, 1866.

MY DEAR MR. GLASS -- I have been thinking how

many sheets of foolscap I ought to cover in my report
to you, but really I cannot find that I have anything to

say as to my department, except that everything went
like clockwork in the testing, and I had the satisfaction
of being " a cypher " from the time we got our arrange

ments completed before leaving Berehaven. I hope by

about this time fortnight to be able again to make a

similar report. But     unhappily, there                                trouble with
                       if,

                            I

                                                            is
faults am very confident we shall be able to avoid con
I
    Ifusion as far as can be done by speedy, and accurate

        Ienough, localization.

The cable, as you know, has far exceeded our expecta

tions as to speed. So there will be ample time to arrange

about curb keys and permanent plans of working when

we are all home again.  hope before Christmas to be

able to give you a recorder that will take messages

through the cable with security at fifteen words per

minute or more.

We are all very sorry to hear you have been so poorly.

hope and trust by the time this reaches you you will be

perfectly well again.

        owe you many thanks for your great kindness about

my messages to and from my wife. They have been a

great comfort to me, although        feel distressed that the
accounts of my sister-in-law's
                                health have been so bad. --
                                I
                                      I
With kind regards to Mrs. Glass, remain, yours very
                                WILLIAM THOMSON.
truly,

But there was more to come.

For nearly twelve months there had lain silent

on the Atlantic bed those 1200 miles of cable.

Night and day for the whole of those months had

been under observation by                                               telegraph clerk
it

                    a
                                                                     a
watching galvanometer reflecting a spot of light

xi        THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH                                                                                                495

for possible indications of any change in its electrical

condition. None had been found : the cable, so far

as it reached along the sea-bed, was believed to be

in perfect condition, only awaiting the day when it

should be raised. On August 9 the Great Eastern
quitted Newfoundland along with the Medway, and

preceded by the Albany and the Terrible, to attempt

to recover the lost end. Their task was to grapple

the cable at the depth of two miles, raise, splice, and

           On August 13 Thomson was able by
complete   it.
                               a

                                               ;
                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                             ;
means of a passing steamer to dispatch a letter to

his wife. They expected to reach the grappling

ground that night, and to get down the grapnels.

He told her that in week they might hear of their

having found the end then they would be three or

four days in laying the cable to Newfoundland,

where they would be two or three days then ten

or twelve more to Liverpool. He had "done a

good deal of work at his book." The letter reached

Mrs. Thomson on the 23rd. From August 15th
to September 1st various attempts were made, with

varying experience, resulting in the buoying of the

cable after partial lifting at two different points and

finally, at noon on September 2nd, the cable was

raised to the surface, brought aboard the Great

Eastern, and connected to the instruments in the

electrical cabin, where a few minutes sufficed for the

tests that showed continuity to be perfect. At once

they attempted to signal to Ireland.

    was at quarter to six on Sunday morning,
    It
                              that the watcher at Valencia, Mr.
                        2, a
September

496  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

May, suddenly became aware that the spot of light
showed unsteady flickerings. These speedily changed

to coherent movements to left or right, as the cable

began to speak. His signals in reply were received
with enthusiastic joy by the workers on board the
ship. That same afternoon the splice was made, and
the Great Eastern once more steamed westward,
paying out the remainder of the cable to New

foundland.

    Early the next day Mrs. Thomson, in Glasgow,
received the following message from her husband
in mid-Atlantic : --

                                                                      VALENCIA, IRELAND,
                                                                                 September 3, 1866.

     Mr. Graves has just been requested by Professor
Thomson to write to Mrs. T., to inform her that he is
well, and to request her to telegraph the latest news in
full on Friday by means of the 1865 cable.

    It is expected that the Great Eastern will arrive at

Heart's Content on Saturday next. This marvellous
achievement of science has put fresh life into every one.

    The Great Eastern arrived at Newfoundland on

September 8, thus putting the Company in posses

sion of two perfect cables. It was found that their

electrical qualities were improved by submersion,
and the speed of signalling attained was thirteen or

fourteen words per minute. To demonstrate the

delicacy of the apparatus, Mr. Latimer Clark, at

Valencia, on September 1 2, performed the experi
ment of joining up the two cables into a single
circuit of 3700 miles, through which he readily trans
mitted intelligible signals, using only the power of

xi          THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH      497

a Liliputian voltaic cell consisting of a lady's silver

thimble containing a few drops of acid, into which

dipped a slip of zinc. A still more marvellous test

of Thomson's instrument was the reception at

Valencia of intelligible signals transmitted from

Newfoundland by Mr. R. Collett, using as battery

Dickerson's cell, a gun-cap containing one drop of

acidulated water and a minute anode of zinc.
    " I wish William were home," wrote Mrs.

Thomson to Mrs. King on September 10. " I am

anxious now on windy nights, and get more im

patient as the time goes on." The Great Eastern

left Newfoundland finally on September 10, and

reached Liverpool on the 18th ; and the day follow

ing Thomson returned to Glasgow. Sad news was

awaiting him ; his sister-in-law, Agnes Crum, had

been for some months in a decline, and she passed

away while   he was returning. To his sister he

wrote :--              THE ROUKEN, THORNLIEBANK, GLASGOW,
                                        Mond. Sept. 24 [1866].
    MY DEAR
             ELIZABETH -- I was very glad to receive

your letter this morning, and had intended to write to

you to-day, just a few lines to say that I had got safely
back. I was met, as you know, by very sad news on

arriving in the Great Eastern, and I came here direct
from Liverpool. It has been a great blow to us all, and

will be, as you may conceive, a grief which will be felt

not less strongly after the first shock passes.

    I had heard through the cable just before leaving

Heart's Content to return home that she might be spared

only a few weeks, and it was a great pain to me when I

arrived to find that it was too late to allow me to see her

again. Margaret has had a great deal to tell me that

    VOL. I                          2K

498     LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                CHAP.

was very beautiful about the way she passed away, which
may make us feel that for her it is a happy change. Mr.

and Mrs. Crum are well. Margaret sends you her kind

love, and thanks you and Margaret for your letters. . . .
                                                           --I Yhoauver
     I  hope you    and David and     all have been well.
        as well as   possible during    the three months.
been

affectionate brother,                 WILLIAM THOMSON.

    The Secretary of the Company wrote in terms
worthy of record :--

                              ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH COMPANY,
                                       12 ST. HELEN'S PLACE,
                                         BISHOPSGATE STREET WITHIN,
                                                      LONDON, E.G., 18 Sept. 1866.

    MY DEAR PROFESSOR THOMSON -- Though prevented

by important matters from being present to greet you in
person upon your arrival once more in England, I cannot
refrain from tendering to you my humble meed of thankful
ness and admiration for the labour and perseverance which
have resulted in so glorious a consummation of the work

upon which your heart has been set during so many years.

    I must repeat what I have often said before, that it

is mainly due to your own courage and science that this
work is so early brought to a practical result. Had it
not been for your most valuable aid in 1857-8, whereby
it was proved that messages could be sent across the
Atlantic, I doubt very much whether there would have

been any telegraphic communication with America for

many years yet to come.
     AH distrust is now, however, finally set aside by a

success as magnificent as it is complete, and I can only-

hope and sincerely wish that during a long life you may
witness the great results of the work you have done so
much to promote, and that for the part you have taken in

it you may reap all the honour and profit you have so

well deserved. -- I am, my dear sir, sincerely yours

                                                                  GEO. SAWARD.

     Professor W. Thomson, LL.D., F.R.S.,

       Great Eastern Steamship, Liverpool.

xi        THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH                       499

    Great were the national expressions of joy at the

successful ending to this great enterprise, and the
feat of recovering the lost cable from the depths of
the ocean was particularly the occasion of enthusiastic

comment on all hands.

    Then came a notable letter from the chairman of

the Company, the Rt. Hon. J. Stuart Wortley, M.P.

Private.                   BROADSTAIRS, KENT,

                                                                                30 Sept. 1866.

    DEAR PROFESSOR THOMSON -- In offering you my

congratulations on your return home, it is most gratifying

to be honoured by a commission from the Prime Minister

to intimate to you that it is the gracious intention of

Her Majesty the Queen to confer upon you the honour
of knighthood in token of her appreciation of your services

in connection with the Atlantic Telegraph, and in recog

nition of your high position in science and classical

attainments.

    You will believe that it is a great pleasure to all your

friends upon our Board, as it is to myself, to know that

your invaluable services in this great enterprise have

attracted the attention of the Queen and her ministers,
and procured you this honourable mark (the only one she
has to bestow) of her Royal approbation.

     Hoping that a title which your predecessor bore in

Glasgow will be agreeable and acceptable to you, -- I

remain, dear Professor Thomson, yours very sincerely,

    Professor W. Thomson.  J. STUART WORTLEY.

    The reply was simple and sincere.

                                              THE ROUKEN, THORNLIEBANK,

                                                                  GLASGOW, Oct. 6, 1866.

    MY DEAR MR. WORTLEY -- I have only now, on my

return from London, received your kind letter intimating
to me that it is the gracious intention of the Queen to
confer the honour of knighthood on me.

500 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

I accept with gratitude this mark of Her Majesty's

favourable consideration of my humble efforts in connection

with the Atlantic Telegraph.

I thank you very sincerely for the kind expressions

with which you accompany the intimation. I wish at the

same time to express my sympathy with my former

colleagues, and other friends on the Atlantic Board, in

the gratification they must now feel in the complete
success of their great work, and to say that I shall retain

a very pleasant recollection of the friendly manner in

which they have always met me, not only when I was

their  colleague, but  during the time  which has     passed
since                  a member of the               remain,
       I ceased to be                   Board. -- I

my dear Mr. Wortley, yours very sincerely,

                              WILLIAM THOMSON.

    On October 2 there was held a public banquet at
Liverpool to commemorate the event. The chair
was taken by the president of the Board of Trade,
Sir Stafford Northcote, and there were present
Captain Anderson, Sir Charles Bright, Canning,
Clifford, Latimer Clark, and Willoughby Smith.

Thomson was not able to be present. At the con

clusion of the chief toast the chairman read a letter
from the Prime Minister, Lord Derby, announcing
that Her Majesty, desirous of testifying her sense

of the merits displayed in this great enterprise, had
directed that the honour of knighthood should be
conferred on Captain Anderson, Professor Thomson,

Mr. Glass, and Mr. Canning; and baronetcies upon
two of the directors, Mr. Lampson and Mr. Gooch.

Honours were also offered to Mr. Stuart Wortley
and Captain Hamilton, who declined them.

     Not to be behindhand, the City of London gave a

xi  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH                   501

banquet at the Mansion House on October 30, 1866.

Cabinet ministers, bankers, merchant princes, and

parliamentarians met to exchange congratulations

with the successful heroes of the telegraph. The
response of Sir William Thomson to the toast of
" Science as applied to Telegraphy," is thus re
corded in the Morning Post :--

     Professor Sir W. Thomson, in reply, said that the
toast of " Science as applied to Telegraphy " opened up

an extensive subject, and he could not help feeling his

own incompetence to do justice to it. It was impossible

to treat it adequately in the limited space of time at his

command ; but he would take that opportunity of saying

that unless men of science pursued their studies out of a

pure love of knowledge, or from an abstract desire to

become acquainted with the laws of nature, they would

seldom carry on their labours with success. But, at the

same time, no greater reward could crown their investiga

tions than when, as in the case of electric telegraphy, they

were the means of conferring a practical service on man

kind, the value and importance of which was admitted on

all hands. The history of many of the most important

discoveries showed that they were the result of investiga

tions carried on from a pure love of science, and a desire

to increase our acquaintance with the mysterious powers

of nature. Who could have supposed that the years

which Stephen Gray spent in discovering and defining

the law of electrical conductivity as a distinct property
of nature would lead to a discovery by which the most

distant nations of the earth would be brought into

immediate communication with each other, and which

would be celebrated in the middle of the nineteenth century

by the representatives of the wealth and commerce of the

English metropolis ? Or, who would have supposed that

the discovery of the   relation between the  laws of elec
tricity and magnetism                        investigations
                       --or that Faraday's

502  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                    CHAP.

into the properties of matter in reference to electricity,

and his announcement    that gutta-percha   was the best
                        borne fruit in the
insulator --would have                      thousands of

miles of electric cable that were now the means of

conveying intelligence to and from every portion of the

globe ? His only object in these remarks was to point

out that science, to be true to itself, must be followed for

its own sake, and that all the most important services it
had rendered to mankind had been the results of arduous

investigations carried on by men animated with the hope

of no other reward than that which awaited every sincere,

industrious student of nature. In this he was sure that

his learned friend, whose name was also associated with

the toast (Professor Wheatstone), could bear him out,
while he fully admitted, as he had said, that no greater

reward could befall the scientific investigator than when

his secret and silent labours resulted in some discovery of

immediate practical benefit to the world.

    The city of Glasgow, on November 1, conferred
on Sir William Thomson the freedom of that City.
The ceremony took place in the Corporation
Galleries, and the Lord Provost in presenting the

freedom referred to the circumstance that though
his studies and researches had given to him a place
amongst the most eminent scientific men of the age,
he had yet remained comparatively unknown and

unappreciated by the country generally until the
practical application of his theories concerning
submarine telegraphy attracted general attention.
After quoting a eulogium by Sir David Brewster
upon Thomson's scientific achievements, the Lord

Provost referred to the practical part he had taken
in devising his instruments and methods of testing,
by which " Sir William Thomson has provided the

xi  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH                                         503

world of thought with the finest instruments of
observation and research, and the world of action
with the means of carrying the messages of com
merce and civilization which have yet to cross the
uncabled oceans that separate the families of the
earth." The burgess ticket presented contained a

dedication thus recorded in the official roll.

    1866, NOVEMBER i.

                SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, Knt., LL.D., etc.

           In testimony of their high appreciation of his success
       ful efforts to increase our knowledge of the natural laws
       of heat, magnetism, and electricity, the means of render
       ing their powers practically useful, and especially of his
        valuable services in connection with submarine tele
       graphy, and the now successful completion of the laying
       of the Atlantic Cable.

    In acknowledging the presentation Sir William
Thomson said :--

     I find it impossible to give any adequate expression
to my feelings in receiving this distinguished mark of

the generous consideration with which my fellow-citizens
have, from the commencement of the undertaking, regarded
my connection with the Atlantic Telegraph. I can never

forget that, at a time when failure and loss were the only
material results of our labours, I was rewarded by citizens

of Glasgow with a recognition which would have been

ample and liberal had our work given satisfaction in full
to all expectations. And now at last, when the long-
looked for success has come, it is most gratifying to me

to meet with the sympathy which you show me this day.
How highly I value the privilege of being enrolled in
the list of your burgesses I cannot find words to tell ;

but I can only say that, as long as I live, it will be a

stimulus to me to endeavour so to act as to do no
discredit to the ancient and famous city of Glasgow.

504 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

    At the dinner which followed there was a toast
to " Sir William Thomson, our youngest Burgess."

The speech in reply contained several notable
passages :--

     I feel, indeed, that kindness has led my Lord Provost
to say too much regarding my humble efforts in con

nection with the Atlantic Telegraph. I feel that so far

as he has exalted what has been done by science he has
not said too much ; but that any small additions to electric
science that I may have been fortunate enough to have

made have had such great results, I think, must be viewed

under much restriction, when you consider that the progress
of science is sure and strong, and is not dependent on the

weak powers of individuals. A few years sooner or a

few years later such results as are now spoken of must
have been achieved ; there can be no doubt of that.
Abstract science has tended very much to accelerate the
results, and to give the world the benefit of those results
earlier than it could have had them, if left to struggle for
them and try for them by repeated efforts and repeated
failures, unguided by such principles as can be evolved
from the abstract investigations of science. . . .

     It is curious that one of the earliest records of electrical

phenomena that have come to us from the time of the
Greeks is immediately connected with the electric tele
graph. Pliny describes as known before his time that a
certain fish had the wonderful power of killing its prey
by some peculiar influence that it exercises upon it through
 the water ; and further, that this influence can produce a
 torpor, or give a shock to any person at a distance who
 may touch the fish with a spear. Now, what is this shock
communicated along the substance of the spear, and pro
 ducing an effect on the hand of the person holding it but
 an electric shock ? We now know that it is electricity.
 Faraday has proved to us what was anticipated by
 Cavendish ; and, after all, this is a system of telegraphy
 in which the fish is the sender and the person holding

xi  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH                                        505

the end of the spear the receiver of the message, and
that message is Noli me tangere.

    Sir William's speech continued with a reference
to Stephen Gray's researches on conduction, to
Faraday's investigation of the dielectric properties
of gutta-percha, to the advantage of collaboration
of practical engineers and manufacturers with those

men whose occupation is with the abstract principles

of science. After alluding to Varley's insistence
on the necessity for using a larger conductor and
a greater thickness of gutta-percha in cables for
rapid signalling, as a vindication of the practical
value of abstract science, he claimed for scientific

institutions in general, and for the University of

Glasgow in particular, the support and assistance
of the Government and of the Town Council.

    It was at Windsor Castle on November 10, 1866,

that Queen Victoria conferred knighthood by acco
lade on Sir William Thomson. The event is thus

recorded in the Court Circular :--

     After the Council, Her Majesty, accompanied by
Princess Christian, entered the White Drawing Room,
when Mr. John Rolt, Attorney-General, Mr. W. Thomson,
LL.D., Captain James Anderson, Mr. Samuel Canning,
and Mr. Samuel White Baker, were introduced to Her
Majesty by the Lord Chamberlain, and severally received
the honour of knighthood.

    The arms borne by Sir William Thomson were
these :--

     Argent, a   roebuck's  head,  fcirasbt.osheCdr,esgtu--lesA;  on a chief,
azure, three    mullets of   the                                  cubit arm

506  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

dexter, erect, vested ; in the hand five ears of wheat,

proper. Motto -- Honesty is the best policy.

     On November 22 another banquet was given in

Dublin, when, in response to the toast of his health
proposed by the Lord Mayor, Sir William Thomson

spoke gratefully of the hospitality of Irish friends

not only now in the hour of success, but also in the

hour of failure in 1858.
    On November 28, Sir William lectured on the

Atlantic Telegraph at the Glasgow Athenaeum,

which was densely crowded, hundreds being turned

away from the doors.

     He traced the history of early land telegraphy, and
remarked that the word electric current was an expression
which might be used without its being easy to explain.
That there was an electric fluid was probably a truth, or
certainly half a truth, and that there was a fluid which
actually flowed through the wire during the electric current
was also probably true ; but still he had to make the
humiliating confession that when he spoke of a current
flowing from left to right he really did not know whether
it ran from left to right or from right to left He spoke
of the battery, and illustrated his remarks by sending
currents through a portion of the old Atlantic cable of
1858 suspended round the room. He also described and
illustrated the telegraphic use of the deflexions of the
magnetic needle from its more primitive up to its com
paratively perfect modern form. After explaining the
causes of retardation which limited the working speed of
cables, he described the mirror receiving instrument, in
which there was a little needle not three-eighths of an
inch long, attached to a mirror smaller than a four-
penny piece, and weighing about one-third of a grain, and
which reflected a ray of light, an arm of infinite lightness.
What was necessary was a receiving instrument which

xi  THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH                                                           507

would be ready to superimpose upon the effects of a

previous signal the additional, sharp, sudden effect pro

duced by a new signal ; hence the needle must be free to

move, and must be controlled by a powerful magnet to
make it execute the motions of the signal with sufficient
rapidity. He alluded to the services of Mr. White, stat
ing that it was he who first suggested the use of the
microscope glass for the thin mirror. He then referred

to Varley's improvements in signalling through con

densers ; the advantage of the curb key ; the improve
ments in construction and insulation of cables ; and Mr.

Willoughby Smith's method of continuous testing during
laying. It had been found possible to transmit as many
as from thirteen to fourteen words a minute ' with perfect

security ; and the operators, when signalling on private

matters between themselves, had spoken as fast as eigh
teen or nineteen words a minute. The two cables could
do far more than the land lines on the other side. Re
ferring especially to the electrical department, Sir William

said that by this organization one man's ideas, a second

man's ideas, and a third man's ideas were all blended into

a harmonious whole, and made ready to be brought into

action. Of the organizing work of Glass, Canning, and
Clifford, and of their skill in the operations of laying and
picking up the cables, he spoke with enthusiasm. After

explaining the grappling tackle, he observed that possibly

fifty years might elapse before such a grappling rope was
again needed. He did not know of any property of
matter that indicated a termination to the good action of
cables in deep water. He looked upon the Atlantic cable

as property which would cost less in repairs, and have a
less chance of being at any time found at zero in value
than any railway property, house property, or ship
property. He concluded with praise for the wonderful

    1 In a communication   made     b"yVSairrleWy,illJieanmkin,in  a1n8d90I  to the  Institution of
Electrical Engineers he                                                       were   more pleased
                          said :--

than surprised when we found that, after having promised to the Company

eight words per minute, we actually obtained by hand-signalling, with mirror-

galvanometer as receiver, fifteen words per minute through each of the two
cables, when the laying of both across the Atlantic was completed in 1866."

508  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP, xi

accuracy of seamanship which had enabled Captain Sir

James Anderson and Captain Moriarty to find and hook
up the lost cable.

     The chairman, in moving a vote of thanks, observed
that the picking up of the Atlantic cable was one of the
greatest testimonies to the value of abstract science ; and

that while the audience could not fail to admire what
they had heard of his fellow-labourers in this great work,
they had heard nothing of what Sir William Thomson

had himself done. He was certain that if any one of
Sir William's fellow -workers had delivered an address,

they would have heard a great deal of his labours amongst

them.

   To Good Words for January 1867, Sir William
Thomson contributed an illustrated article on " The
Atlantic Telegraph." It was translated into French,

and appeared in the Revue des fours scientifiquts.

For some reason it was not reprinted in the volumes
of Popular Lectures.

CHAPTER XII

LABOUR AND SORROW

RELEASED from the arduous labours and responsi

bilities of Atlantic telegraphy, Sir William Thomson
resumed his quest into the properties of matter, his

unremitting activity being, however, from time to

time overshadowed by anxieties from the failing

health of his wife. Many a time and oft his eager

mind had turned to speculate on the intimate

structure of matter, trying to conceive some rational

explanation of the causes of hardness, plasticity,

tenacity, crystalline structure, and other physical

properties. So far back as 1856 he had worked

out a mathematical theory of elasticityis           319), and
                                               (p.
his laboratory had been the scene of many experi

mental researches, with his faithful henchman, Donald

MacFarlane, to carry out the details of the experi

ments. He had also made notable contributions

to the theory of hydrodynamics, and was familiar

with the problems of the kinetic theory of gases,

to which, indeed, the work of Joule and himself

had contributed. There  no evidence that in

these twenty years of his activity he had busied him
self much with the inner problems of the atomic

509

510  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

constitution of matter ; he had been dealing with

molar rather than molecular dynamics. Apparently
he had accepted the usual notions of the chemists as
to the atomic nature of matter of different kinds, and

with these notions the current conceptions as to the
grouping of atoms into molecules, as, for example,
the molecules of water consisting of atoms of hydro

gen and oxygen united in some sort of bond. If

he did not share the prevalent view that the atoms
themselves might be regarded as excessively minute,
indestructible, infinitely hard bodies, of probably
spherical form, he had at least expressed no dissent,
and had offered no theory as to how they came to

possess the properties thus attributed to them.
But now a new view was to present itself to him.

Helmholtz had, in 1858, published in Crelles Journal
a short memoir of extraordinary power "On the

Integrals of the Hydrodynamic Equations which
express Vortex - motion." In almost all earlier
investigations of the motion of fluids the difficulty
and complexity of the subject had led to assumptions
that seriously limited the scope of the theory. The
mathematical treatment adopted had either assumed
the absence of friction between the different parts of
the fluid as they moved past one another, or else had
admitted it only in a few simpler cases. Helmholtz
abolished this limitation, and endeavoured to ascer
tain the forms of the motion which friction produces

in fluids. Analysing the motion into three con

stituents, --a simple translation, a rotation about an
instantaneous axis, and a voluminal expansion, -- and

xn  LABOUR AND SORROW  511

postulating that in a frictionless fluid such particles as
have no initial rotation do not acquire rotation at any

subsequent period, he showed that if lines -- termed
vortex lines -- are drawn (in imagination) through

the fluid, such that at every point of such line its

direction coincides with the instantaneous axis of

rotation of the element of the fluid at that point,
the fluid along such a vortex line will remain com
posed permanently of the same elements of the

fluid ; and if they are being shifted in the fluid by
any motion of translation, the vortex-line will be
shifted with them. In other words, the vortex-

filament, consisting of this indefinitely thin line of

rotating fluid, will persist. A further deduction was

that the product of the cross-section and angular
velocity, taken over any cross -section of such a

vortex-filament, is constant throughout the whole
length of the filament, and is constant in time too

if there is no frictional dissipation. But if it is
constant all along the length of the filament, the

filament must either be re-entrant on itself, as a

ring or other closed figure, or else it must have its
ends on the boundary-surfaces of the liquid. Helm-

holtz pointed out other consequences, including

certain analogies with electric and magnetic prob

lems. He also considered the reactions which two

vortex-filaments in one mass of fluid would have

exerted on one another. If the fluid were truly

devoid of internal friction, it would be impossible

to produce in it any such closed vortex-ring.
    This memoir of Helmholtz, one of the most

512  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

wonderful pieces of mathematical physics ever
written, was translated by Tait for the Philosophical
Magazine in 1867, and Tait himself devised some

extremely clever experiments to illustrate the points
brought out in the theory, using vortex -rings of
smoke produced in the air. He showed that they

could rebound against one another, or against solid

bodies, as if possessed of elasticity. Thomson, on

being shown these experiments, was immensely
struck with them, and seized with avidity upon the

mathematical points in Helmholtz's memoir. And
not only upon the mathematical points. With the
lightning rapidity of thought, and the dominant
passion for physical interpretation characteristic of
his mind, Thomson, by a flash of inspiration, per
ceived in the smoke-ring a dynamical model of the

atom of matter. If in a perfectly frictionless

medium no such vortex can be artificially produced,
it followed logically that if such a vortex existed it
could not be destroyed. But being in motion, and
possessing the inertia of rotation, it would have
quasi-elasticity and kindred properties. Applying
his fine mathematical powers to the results which

Helmholtz had deduced by strict analysis, Thomson

proceeded to develop the theory of vortex-motion.
In the great memoir, which he subsequently pre
sented to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, he

showed that in a perfect medium vortex-rings are
stable, and that in many respects they possess the
qualities essential to the properties of material

atoms, --permanence, elasticity, and the power to

xii          LABOUR AND SORROW         513

act on one another through the intervening medium.
Thomson's visit to Tait, when he saw these smoke-

rings, was in the middle of January 1867. His
first paper on vortex-atoms was given to the Royal
Society of Edinburgh on February 18th. But in

the meantime he had written of them to Helm-

holtz :--

                                                                       Jan. 22, 1867.

     MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I have allowed too long a

time to pass without thanking you for your kind letter.

I need scarcely tell you that your congratulations were

most acceptable and highly valued. It has been very

satisfactory to all concerned in it to have succeeded at

last so completely, and, above all, to have raised and

completed the cable of last year.

     From the beginning of this session I have been hard
at work on various matters which I had to set aside on

account of the Atlantic. Among other things, the book

of Tait and myself has suffered great delay. The last

sheets are now in the printer's hands, and a few weeks at

most will, I think, bring it out. This, however, is only

the first volume, and we estimate about four, so I dare
say we may be at work on it all our lives. A second

volume, however, to include Vibrations, Waves, Elastic

Solids and Fluids, Tides, and Fluid Motion generally, will,

I hope, come out in a much shorter time than we have
spent on the first volume. I have worked out a great

deal for it about waves with friction, tides (on which I
spent many a day on board the Great Eastern, when we

were waiting for weather or making passages), and general

dynamics. A great deal is to be done about the tides,

and I believe observations may be reduced so as to give

results that have not yet been worked out. Just now,

however, Wirbelbewegungen have displaced everything

else, since a few days ago Tait showed me in Edinburgh

a magnificent way of producing them. Take one side

(or the lid) off a box (any old packing-box will serve)
                                   2L
     VOL. I

514      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                              CHAP.

and cut a large hole in the opposite side. Stop the open

side AB loosely with a piece of cloth, and strike the

            middle of the cloth with your hand.

            If you leave anything smoking in the

         I box, you will see a magnificent ring
                                                                                     A piece of
         I  Q shot out by every blow.
               burning phosphorus gives                                              very good

& """"^     smoke for the purpose ; but I think

            nitric acid with pieces of zinc thrown

into in the bottom of the box, and cloth wet with
     it,
                                                                                              will
                    a

                              I
ammonia, or large open dish of ammonia beside                                             it,
                                                                                            is
answer better. The nitrite of ammonia makes fine white

clouds in the air, which, think, will be less pungent and

disagreeable than the smoke from the phosphorus. We

sometimes can make one ring shoot through another, illus

trating perfectly your description when one ring passes
                                              a
near another, each much disturbed, and seen to be in
            is                                       ;  is

                                                                 it
a state of violent vibration for few seconds, till settles

again into its circular form. The accuracy of the circular

form of the whole ring, and the fineness and roundness of
the section, are beautifully seen. If you try
                                                                                     it,  you will

easily make rings of foot in diameter and an inch or so
         it
in section, and be able to follow them and see the con
                         a
                              a

                                           a
stituent rotary motion. The vibrations make beautiful
                                                                                     a

subject for mathematical work. The solution for the

longitudinal vibration of straight vortex column comes

out easily enough. The absolute permanence of the

rotation, and the unchangeable relation you have proved

between  and the portion of the fluid once acquiring

such motion in perfect fluid, shows that there a
                                                        if

perfect fluid all through space, constituting the substance

of all matter, a vortex-ring would be as permanent as the

solid hard atoms assumed by Lucretius and his

followers (and predecessors) to account for the                                           fluid,
permanent properties of bodies (as gold, lead,
etc.) and the differences of their characters. Thus,

    two vortex-rings were once created in a perfect
if

                                                                                  a
passing through one another like links of chain, they

never could come into collision, or break one another, they

xii  LABOUR AND SORROW  515

would form an indestructible atom ; every variety of com
binations might exist. Thus a long chain of vortex-rings,
or three rings, each running through each of the other,
would give each very characteristic reactions upon other
such kinetic atoms. I am, as yet, a good deal puzzled as
to what two vortex -rings through one

another would do (how each would move,
and how its shape would be influenced
by the other). By experiment I find
that a single vortex-ring is immediately
broken up and destroyed in air by enclosing it in a ring
made by one's fingers and cutting it through. But a

single finger held before it as it approaches very often

does not cut it and break it up, but merely causes an

indentation as it passes the obstacle, and a few vibrations
after it is clear.

     Have you seen notices of Le Roux's recent work
(Comptes rendus) on thermo-electricity? I have had
some interesting letters from him, and he has sent me
proofs of a paper for the Annales de chimie, in which he
confirms my results as to electric convection of heat, and
makes a beginning of absolute measurements of the

Peltier effect which promise to be very important. He

tells me that hitherto no one in France would believe in

the " Electric Convection of Heat"

     We have been much interested in the personal matter
of your letter. I hope you will have improving accounts
to give of the little boy's health. We were very sorry to
hear of the accident to Kirchhoff. My experience allows

me to thoroughly sympathise with him, and I hope he is
now much less lame than I am. I have had a letter

to-day from Roscoe asking on his account about glass to
hold an electric charge for electrometers, which I shall
attend to immediately. The common " flint-glass " made

in Glasgow answers very well. It very rarely happens

that a jar made of it does not hold well enough, and

many of them hold so well that they do not lose 1 per

cent in a day.
     I have made improvements in the divided-ring electro

516  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                 CHAP.

meter, and can now show directly (without condenser, or
other multiplication of effect) differences of potential as
small as g^n of that produced by a single cell of Darnell's.

A severe frost we have just had has allowed me to test

(roughly) the conductive and electrolytic quality of ice,

and I have found that zinc and copper separated by hard

frozen ice act quite as a zinc-water-copper cell when tested

                     by the electrometer. But the

                     effect was quite manifest on

                     an ordinary galvanometer,

                     and indicated a resistance of

                     ^^about 1 20,000 X I o7        in
                                         seconds
a cell consisting of a few square inches of zinc separated

by ice from copper, the ice being hard frozen all round

the zinc. I don't know whether others have made such

experiments ; but electrolytic action through a solid is a

new idea to me.

My wife has suffered so much from the cold of our

Glasgow winter that she has been obliged to take refuge

in a milder climate, and is now at Torquay, having found

much benefit from spending part of last winter there. I
am going there to-morrow, having " holidays " for three
days, but except such occasional visits I am alone in the

college this session. The loss of her younger sister has

been, as you may conceive, a great distress.        If
     When are we to see you again in this country?

you make a journey to see the Paris Exhibition, I hope

you will extend it a little further, and let us have an

opportunity of meeting. I am fixed here till the begin
ning of May, and after that I shall probably be some

where in the south of England for a time, but as we have

given up our house in Arran, I don't know where we

shall spend the summer, but wherever we are it would

always be a great pleasure to meet you.

     With kind regards to Mme. Helmholtz and yourself,

in which my wife would join if she were here, I remain,

yours always truly,  WILLIAM THOMSON.

xii             LABOUR AND SORROW                            517

    Thomson's paper on Vortex-motion is reported

as follows in the Scotsman of February 1 9, 1 867 :--

     On Monday night the sixth ordinary meeting of the

Edinburgh Royal Society was held in the Royal Institu

tion, Sir David Brewster, president, in the chair.

     Professor Sir William Thomson read an interesting
                        " Vortex-atoms,"
communication on                            of which we      give the
following abstract      :-- After noticing    Helmholtz's      admir

able discovery of the law of vortex-motion in a perfect

liquid, that  is a is,  in fluid perfectly destitute of viscosity
                        it
(or fluid friction), Sir William said that this discovery
                             a
inevitably suggests the idea that Helmholtz's rings are

the only true atoms. For the only pretext seeming to

justify the monstrous assumption of infinitely strong and

infinitely rigid pieces of matter, the existence of which       a is

asserted as probable hypothesis by some of the greatest

modern chemists in their rashly - worded introductory

statements,             that urged by Lucretius and adopted by

Newton that                   seems necessary to account for the
         ;

unalterable distinguishing qualities of different kinds of

matter. But Helmholtz has proved an absolutely un

alterable quality in the motion of any portion of

perfect liquid, in      which the peculiar  motion which he calls
" Wirbelbewegung          " has been once    created. Thus, any
         of perfect liquid which has "      Watirobmelsb--ewiengfiunnitgely"
portion   recommendation of Lucretius'a
has one

perennial   specific    quality.   To generate or destroy "Wirbel
bewegung    " in a        perfect  fluid can only be an act of

creative power. Lucretius' atom does not explain any of

the properties of matter without attributing them to the
atom itself. Thus the " clash of atoms," as
                                            is               has been
                                                         it
well called, has been invoked by his modern followers to

account for the elasticity of gases. Every other property

of matter has similarly required an assumption of specific
forces pertaining to the atom. It
                                            as easy (and as
                        not more so) to assume whatever specific
improbable,   if

forces may be required in any portion of matter which
possesses the " Wirbelbewegung " as in a solid indivisible

518      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                        CHAP.

Apiece of matter, and hence the Lucretius atom has no

prima fade advantage over the Helmholtz atom.
magnificent display of smoke-rings, which he recently had

the pleasure of witnessing in Professor Tait's lecture

room, diminished by one the number of assumptions

required to explain the properties of matter, on the

hypothesis that all bodies are composed of vortex-atoms

in a perfect homogeneous liquid. Two smoke-rings were

frequently- seen to bound obliquely from one another,

shaking violently from the effects of the shock. The

result was very similar to that observable in two large

india-rubber rings striking one another in the air. The

elasticity of each smoke-ring seemed no further from

perfection than might be expected in a solid india-rubber

ring of the same shape from what we know of the vis

cosity of india-rubber. Of course, this kinetic elasticity

of form is perfect elasticity for vortex-rings in a perfect

liquid.   This is at least as              good a   beginning as the
" clash  of atoms " to account             for the  elasticity of gases.

It seems most probable that the beautiful investigations

of D. Bernouilli, Herapath, Joule, Kronig, Clausius, and

Maxwell, on the various thermodynamic properties of

gases, may have all the positive assumptions they have

been obliged to make as to mutual forces between two

atoms, and kinetic energy acquired by individual atoms

or molecules satisfied by vortex-rings, without requiring

any other property in the matter whose motion composes

them than inertia and incompressible occupation of space.

A full mathematical investigation 1 of the mutual action

between two vortex-rings of any given magnitudes and

velocities, passing one another in any two lines, so

directed that they never come nearer one another than

a large multiple of the diameter of either, is a perfectly

solvable mathematical problem ; and the novelty of the

circumstances contemplated presents difficulties of an ex

citing character. Its solution will become the foundation

     1 The complete mathematical memoir,   which has never been reprinted in
any of Lord Kelvin's volumes of collected  works, is given in Roy. Soc. Edin.

Trans. vol. xxv. pp. 217-260, 1869.

xii  LABOUR AND SORROW                          519

of a proposed new kinetic theory of gases. Another

interesting problem is presented by the mutual action
between closely packed vortex-atoms. For the case of

cubically packed vortices he had succeeded in finding the
solution expressing the motion of every particle of the
fluid. By considering the variation of kinetic energy due
to any variation in the sides of one of the rectangular

boundaries, its area remaining constant, he found the

corresponding modulus of rigidity thus constituted. It

was quite certain that closely packed vortex-atoms, even
of different dimensions and configurations, must produce

in the aggregate an elasticity agreeing with the elasticity
of real solids. Diagrams were shown to illustrate the
knotted or knitted vortex-atoms, the endless variety of

which is infinitely more than sufficient to explain the
varieties and allotropies of known simple bodies and their

mutual affinities. It is to be remarked that two ring-

atoms linked together, or one knotted in any manner
with its ends meeting, constitute a system which, however
it may be altered in shape, can never deviate from its
own peculiarity of multiple continuity, it being impossible
for the matter in any line of vortex-motion to go through
the line of any other matter in such motion, or any other
part of its own line. In fact, a closed line of vortex

matter is literally indivisible.

      Professor Thomson's paper was illustrated by a series
of experiments of smoke-rings, which were very successful.

     Two other pieces of work were engaging

Thomson's attention this spring. In February he

brought before the Institution of Engineers in Scot

land the subject of the rate of a clock or chronometer

as influenced by the mode of suspension. This

discourse (reprinted in Popular Lectures, vol.
                  a
                                                                          ii.
p. 360) contains  masterly exposition of the prin

ciples involved, and an account of some curious

experiments made by himself when on board the

520  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Great Eastern in 1866, in making a chronometer
watch gain or lose by special modes of hanging it
up. He also pointed out that a watch regulated to
go correctly when hanging on a nail cannot be
expected to go at the same rate when carried about
in ordinary use. The other was a dynamic method
of measuring the magnetic dip.

    In spite of his absorption in the subject of vortex-
motion, Thomson was keeping his laboratory corps
busy with experimental work on electrostatics. Form
after form of electrometer had been designed and
tried, and a whole series of these instruments had
been completed. He now sought for some means
of accumulating small electric charges, partly with
the idea of rendering them measurable, partly in the
endeavour to find a means of charging up to any
desired degree of electrification the needles of his
electrometers, or (later) the ink-siphon of his re
corder. To this end he modified his water-dropping

collector (p. 399), and eventually hit upon a mode
of duplicating it so as to make it into a kind of

reciprocal electrophorus. The drops of water which
fell from one jet, being subjected to the influence of
a surrounding metallic conductor charged with a

small positive charge, acquired negative charges
which they imparted to an insulated cup below ;
and this cup, connected to a metallic conductor

surrounding the second jet, caused the drops falling
here to acquire by influence positive charges which,
in turn, fell into a cup cross - connected to the

metallic conductor surrounding the first jet. In

xn  LABOUR AND SORROW  521

this way mutual accumulation took place, the con

ductors becoming highly charged on the principle
now familiar in the modern influence machine.
This led him to design mechanical machines to
carry out the same idea of reciprocal accumulation

by influence and convection. To construct the

machine he employed two of his students (one
of them the late Professor W. E. Ayrton). This
accomplished, they were sent to search the file
of patent specifications to see whether any one
had previously invented a machine on the same

principle. They discovered several anticipations,1
notably one by Varley in the year 1 860 ; but all the

prior patentees had supposed that it was necessary
to give an initial finite electric charge to one of
the inductors of the machine, whereas Thomson's

machine, designed on the compound interest principle,
started with an indefinitely small initial charge.
From the date, June 1867, at which Thomson
announced this invention it may be inferred that
he was led to the idea of a self-exciting and
accumulative electrostatic machine by the contro
versy which had broken out at the beginning of
the year as to the self-exciting magneto-electric or
dynamo-electric machines. Indeed Thomson him
self stated that he was thus led by the analogy. On
this principle were constructed the "replenisher,"

    1 The Toepler influence machine dates from January 1865, that of Holtz

from April 1865, the more modern machine of Wimshurst from 1878. All

were anticipated in the use of the regenerative or "compound-interest"
principle by Belli of Milan, 1831; but the most primitive sort of machine

w" oDrokuinbgletb"yofth1e78p8.rinciple of influence and convection was Nicholson's

522  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                       CHAP.

for use with the quadrant electrometer, and the
" mouse-mill " for use with the siphon recorder.

    The British Association meeting of 1867 was
held at Dundee, and Sir William Thomson was

chosen to preside over the section of Mathematics

and Physics. It met on September 4th. Faraday
had died on August 25th, and the shadow of his

death touched the address with which Thomson

opened the proceedings of the section :--

It was my intention not to detain you from the inter

esting subjects and abundant matter for discussion which

will so fully occupy our time during the meeting by an

introductory address ; but I must ask you to bear with
me if I modify somewhat this resolution, in consequence

of a recent event which, I am sure, must touch very nearly

the hearts of all present, and of very many in all parts of

the world, to whom the name of Faraday has become a

household word for all that is admirable in scientific

genius. Having had so short time for preparation, I

shall not attempt at present any account of Faraday's

discoveries and philosophy. But, indeed, it is very un

necessary that I should speak of what he has done for

science. All that lives for us still, and parts of it we

shall meet at every turn through our work in this section.

I wish I could put in words something of the image

which the name of Faraday always suggests to my mind.

Kindliness and unselfishness of disposition ; clearness and

singleness of purpose ; brevity, simplicity, and directness ;

sympathy with  his audience or   his friend ;  --pearflel ctthneaseturhael
tact and good  taste ; thorough   cultivation

had, each to a rare degree ; and their influence pervaded

his language and manner, whether in conversation or

lecture. But all these combined made only a part of

Faraday's charm. He had an indescribable quality of

quickness and life. Something of the light of his genius

xii            LABOUR AND SORROW                                                    523

irradiated his presence with a certain bright intelligence,

and gave a singular charm to his manner which was felt

by every one, surely, from the deepest philosopher to the

isnimphlies sthocmheild--  who   ever  had the privilege of seeing                  him
                           the          Institution. That light is                  now
                                Royal

gone from us. While thankful for having seen and felt

     we cannot but mourn our loss, and feel that whatever
it,
                                           a

                                                        it

                                                                                 a
good things, whatever brightness, may be yet in store for

us, that light we can never see again.

     Great activity prevailed at the meetings of the

section. One incident was the entrance of the

veteran Sir David Brewster, aged 87, who tottered

into the room to read paper on the colours of

soap bubbles, which he maintained were not due

to differences in thickness of the film, but were

produced by the secretion from of new sub

stance which flowed over the film and expanded

into coloured patches. At the conclusion Sir

William Thomson quietly averted criticism by

observing that the mechanical questions involved

in the seemingly simple operation of blowing

bubbles were amongst the greatest enigmas to

scientific men. After the reading of another paper,

in which       was assumed that the magnetism of a
          it

                        a
steel bar resided on its surface, Thomson remarked

on the fact that very large portion of the state

ments made in books on Natural Philosophy were

false and in direct opposition to facts published

years before.

    Thomson himself brought before the section the
Report of the Committee on Electrical Standards,

to which he contributed an important chapter on

524 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

Electrometers, a number of which he also exhibited.
He also showed his new influence machine, which
he colloquially described as an easy-going electrical
machine built on the principle of the Successful
Merchant, who, commencing life with a capital of
£d., had, after a month's persevering industry,

accumulated the handsome sum of £i, and con

tinued to go on increasing it at compound interest-

He also described his uniform voltaic accumulator,
a disk-dynamo machine without iron. He took
part also in discussions on a large variety of topics,
ranging from lunar volcanoes and aneroid barometers
to the luminosity of ice, the winds of the Indian
Ocean, the internal heat of the earth, and the
formation of dew, which he pronounced " an admir
able and wonderful exemplification of design " in
the protection it afforded to leaves and flowers

against destruction by cold.

    In the session of 1867-8 he set two of his pupils,
King1 and Dickson,2 to make a new determination
of the value of "v," the number of electrostatic
units in the electromagnetic unit. The importance
of this ratio lay in the circumstances that Weber had
discovered that it was not a mere numeric, but was

physically of the nature of a velocity, and that Max
well, in 1864, noticing how nearly it was equal to
the velocity of light, had made the brilliant sugges
tion that they were the same, and that light-waves

1 W. F. King, afterwards of King, Brown and Co., electrical engineers,

Edinburgh.                                                    Cam

   * J, D. Hamilton Dickson, afterwards Tutor of Peterhouse,

bridge.

xn  LABOUR AND SORROW  525

were electromagnetically propagated. Thomson,
who was not at all convinced of this, desired newer
and more exact measurements. The method

employed was to compare the values of the differ
ence of potential between the terminals of an

electrodynamometer, as measured (^electromagneti
cally, by the product of the current passing through
the instrument and the resistance of its coils, and

(2) electrostatically, by the absolute electrometer.

The whole work of that winter was preparatory,
and consisted in the setting up of the electrodyna
mometer, and the accurate measurements of the

various parts of it required for the calculation of the

necessary constants. It might seem a long time to

expend on merely preliminary work,1 but Thomson
insisted on the utmost accuracy ; and it must be
remembered that keys, batteries, and resistance

boxes were commercially non-existent in those days,
and it was part of the laboratory training of the
students to make these instruments and to adjust
them. Records of such work are still existing, show
ing comparison of electrometers and correction of

resistance boxes for changes of temperature. In
the three following years the work was continued ;

 a new absolute electrometer was employed, and the

results obtained with it by D. M'Kichan (together
 with those of King and Dickson) were presented '-
 to the Royal Society in 1873.

     1 A summary of this research was presented to the B. A. meeting at Exeter
 in 1869 by W. F. King; see Reports of Electrical Standards, by Fleeming

 Jenkin, p. 186.
      * Philas. Transactions, vol. clxiii. p. 409, 1873.

526 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

     Lady Thomson's health compelled her to winter
in Mentone, and Sir William followed her there at

the end of the autumn term. A paper by him, " On

Geological Time," was read on Feb. 27, 1868, to
the Glasgow Geological Society. It is not known
whether he was present. He read no other

scientific papers for many months. A letter to his

sister, from Kissingen, on July 3rd, tells that he

and Lady Thomson remained in Italy, chiefly at
Bellagio, on the Lake of Como, till near the end of
June, and came thence northward over the Spliigen.

They stopped in Germany on their way home,

Kissingen having been recommended to Lady
Thomson for its waters. The doctor to whom

they had been recommended had told him that the

baths would do his leg good : "so I have com

menced trying them, but my faith is not great

in their efficacy."

    He wrote to Helmholtz :--

                                                KISSINGEN, July 24, 1868.

    MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- Many thanks for your kind

letter of the 2Oth, which reached me here on the afternoon
of the 22nd. I waited all yesterday expecting a telegram
to summon me to London, but it did not come till this morn
ing, and is to the effect that I am to wait until I hear again.
Ever since we came here my plans have been very uncertain,

on account of important business by which I may be

called home at any moment, or else I should have written

sooner to you. If I am called away just now I shall try

to see you at Heidelberg either on my way to London or

returning here. If I am not called to London (which I

hope will be the case) we shall remain probably a fort

night longer in Germany, and in any case I shall make a

point of seeing you in Heidelberg.

                                                          V

xii            LABOUR AND SORROW                 527

     My wife has been feeling much better and able to

walk more since she came here, and it seems as if she has

derived real benefit from the waters. It is very kind of

you to propose coming here to see us, and I am sorry

you are engaged these next two Sundays, as I am afraid

we shall have left before the 1 2th.

    All my spare time is now spent on " Wirbelbewegung,"

and there will be a great deal to say on that and other

matters which I must keep till we meet.

     My wife joins me in kind regards, and I remain, yours

always truly,          WILLIAM THOMSON.

    The business which Thomson alludes to was in
connection with the French Atlantic Cable, from

Brest to St. Pierre, which was then projected, and
of which he was one of the consulting electricians.
The Company was floated at the end of August.

    On his return to Scotland he wrote :--

                       LARGS, BY GREENOCK, Sep. 3, 1868.

     MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I had intended to write to

you regarding your paper on a discontinuity of fluid

motion, and suggest that friction at the place of rapid

motion or tendency to rapid motion close to the edge

may, rather than avoidance of negative pressure, be the

determining cause of the slipping. Consider instead of

a perfect edge an infinitely thin plate (which does not
exist in           or  tube of finite thickness
rounded   nature)      the slipping which you    with a regularly
            lip.   If                             investigate de

pends on avoidance of negative pressure, it should com

mence at A or A' [at edge or bottom of the lip], according

to lesser or greater pressure in the undisturbed fluid. But

would it be so ? I suspect that if the experiment were tried

in a liquid under greater or less pressure, little or no

difference would be found in the locality where slipping

commences. Is it not possible that the real cause of the

formation of a vortex-sheet may be viscosity which exists

in every real liquid, and that the ideal case of a perfect

528            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

liquid, perfect edge, and infinitely thin vortex-sheet, may be

looked upon as a limiting case of more and more perfect

fluid, finer and finer edge of solid, and consequently thinner
and thinner vortex-sheet. I am afraid I have not made

this very clear, but some time when you may be inclined

to think of these subjects I should be glad to hear from
you about it or to explain, if I can, better what I mean.
I am very busy now writing a paper on " Vortex-motion "

for the R.S.E., wh. will soon be printed. I hope you

have been getting   much benefit from the mountain air.

My wife desires to  be most kindly remembered. --Yours

always truly,       W. THOMSON.

    On September 24 he wrote his sister, from Largs,
that he would be in London at the end of the

week, holding examinations for the Indian Telegraph
Service, and that he was going to take a run to
Clifton to see Principal Forbes, who had been all
summer there in critical health. He was again in
London on October 13, on cable business.

    In March and April 1869 Thomson gave to the
Glasgow Geological Society two papers, one on the
Meteoric Theory of the Sun's Heat, the other on

Geological Dynamics (see p. 547). On April 22
the University of Edinburgh conferred on Sir

William Thomson the honorary degree of LL.D.

    In June the French Atlantic Cable was success
fully laid, and Thomson attended at Brest to super

intend the tests during the laying (see p. 552).
    About the end of October Thomson wrote to his

sister a hurried letter from Largs telling her that
Lady Thomson had been very poorly for six weeks,

having taken a chill, and was not able to rise from
her bed nor take part in conversation. He went

xii          LABOUR AND SORROW                                   529

on to advise her about her son, David King, junior,

his nephew, a young man of great ability.

     I think it will be a great thing (as I told David
himself) to look forward to taking a degree. The position
and influence of the Universities look more promising, and
I daresay ten or twenty years hence there will be advan
tages in various professions (engineering included) to
University graduates of which hitherto we have no ex
perience. The Scotch Universities give a more important
position to graduates than they had formerly by the
Parliamentary representation ; the English Universities
promise (as I am sure David will agree) to take a much
more important position than hitherto by becoming truly
national.

    The persistent ignoring of Joule's scientific
writings caused Thomson to write a protest to
Deville. In it he remarked :--

     How necessary is a republication of Joule's papers in a
conveniently accessible form is curiously illustrated by the

fact that the Secretaries of the Royal Society have in the

last Number of their Proceedings attributed to Foucault

Joule's discovery of the heating of a piece of copper by
motion in the neighbourhood of a magnet.

     To Helmholtz, on January 23, 1870, he sent a long

letter with a hydrodynamical discussion, and a

distressing account of Lady Thomson's health.                    It

included the following paragraphs :--

    I hope you have now received a second instalment of
my paper on "Vortex Motion." Some rough proofs

which preceded it may be put in the fire as soon as you

please. I am trying to go on with   and have good
                                    it,

                                            I

                                                              a
deal of matter ready to be written out, but am able (as
you readily conceive) for but little work of that kind now,

even  if     had more time for  it  than the rare snatches

         II
     VOL.                           2  M

 530 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

Iwhich alone are available. I am doing, besides, what

 can to finish a reprint of all my electrical papers, which
 has stuck about p. 250 (or near the middle) since last
 March. . . .

      I wish your conclusion had been for Bonn and Natural
 Philosophy, because this would have brought you nearer,
 both geographically and in community of pursuits, than

 Heidelberg and Physiology allow. I hope, however, that

you are yourself satisfied in all respects. We were very
glad to see that you have been at last elected to the
 French Institut. Has Bertrand ever had the grace to
confess his error? It is clear that the verdict of his own

Academy is against him. I cannot approve at all of the
other election which I see reported about the same time :

Mayer above Joule. Joule did and published more for the
establishment and extension of thermodynamics in his
two or three papers published before Mayer came on the

field than all that Mayer has done put together. I hope

to have or to make an opportunity of publicly proving
this some time ; but my feeling is not against Mayer, but

for Joule : also for strict and judicious scientific reasoning,

and against what is so much the reverse of it as Mayer's
speech at Innspriick, reported in the Revue des Cours

 Scientifiques. . . .

     Lady Thomson's health was so precarious that

it was no longer possible for her to travel to
Mentone or Torquay to winter. Dr. Matthews

Duncan, who took the gravest view of her case, had

on her return from Torquay in May 1869 pro
nounced her to be beyond hope of recovery. In
spite of her continued suffering they were able,
before the cold weather came on, to make a little

tour in the Rob Roy country by Loch Lomond and
the Trossachs. For her sake Sir William decided

to winter at the coast, and was prepared rather to

xii                       LABOUR AND SORROW                                                     531

resign his chair than be compelled to live in the

smoky purlieus of the College. They tenanted a
very comfortable house, Brooksby, at Largs, within
reach of other relations. He was, however, granted
leave of absence from his University duties, a sub

stitute being found for the spring term in the person
of Mr. R. Kalley Miller.1

    On April 8 Sir William wrote from Largs to
Dr. King :--

     Margaret has been very poorly. There were four or

...five terribly suffering nights and days of scarcely less
suffering.                I see no chance of continuing my article

on the Rigidity of the Earth.

    Early in May her sister, Mrs. Watson, wrote from
Brooksby to Mrs. King saying that Lady Thomson
was very ill, and in great suffering, but that there
was a rally.

     We almost tremble to see more strength with so
much suffering, but Wm. is quite delighted, and seems to
have a hope that nothing can crush. He has gone to

bed upstairs, having been up since three, quite bright

     1 Robert Kalley Miller (Peterhouse, Cambridge), B.A., Math. Tripos and

First Smith's Prizeman, 1867. He had been a student under Thomson and
Blackburn. Later, while a Fellow of Peterhouse, he was Professor of

Applied Mathematics at the Royal Naval College, Greenwich, 1873-1884 ;
and died in 1888.

     Concerning the deputy lectureship a legendary story is current. The
usual version is as follows :-- Sir William being away laying the Atlantic

cable, his class was taken by a gentleman named Day, a particularly lucid

lecturer. On its being announced that the Professor was about to return, the

Iftohlelowbliancgkbionasrcdrip:tio"nWwoarsk  found   one    morning     chalked in a  student   hand upon
                                              while   it  is Day,    for the Knight     cometh     when no

man can    "wIornke.v"er     once asked Lord Kelvin about this story ; when he
replied :                 had an assistant called Day, and the story is fabulous."

Nevertheless there is a germ of truth behind it ; for it was toward the close

of Mr. Kalley Miller's course in the spring of 1870 that one of the students

"circulated round the benches a scrap of paper with the words : Behold the

knight cometh, when no man can work."

532  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                CHAP.

...about her.  I think Wm. is in health wonderfully well

considering all. The power he has of sleeping at any

time is a great blessing. He goes to bed in the large

drawing-room at 10 o'clock generally. Then gets up at

3 and takes Jessie's or Mrs. Tod's place. Then he goes
to bed after breakfast and sleeps as long as he can,

generally till about I o'clock.

    Another letter, of May 7, from the Rev. Dr.
Watson takes up the narrative :--

Things are going on to the end at Brooksby more

slowly than we thought . . . less pain, more weakness

. . . sleep is often rather a torpor . . . mind not clear

. . . cannot find the word. She continues as sweet and

patient as ever, and she has been wonderfully patient all

through this last severe stage of her life. No more doubts

or questionings, so that the pain to William and to the

rest consists entirely  in seeing the sad    decay  of a mind
so vivid and strong.       But this pain is   very
                                                    great --her

husband is sometimes quite overwhelmed and they all feel

it terribly. No one can tell how long this may last, but

surely not very long now, for she is certainly weaker.

    Lady Thomson died on Sunday, June 17, 1870.

Mrs. Watson wrote the same day to Mrs. King :--

     I had your very kind letter last evening, and sent it
over to Wm. to read. This is just to tell you about him.
He was in a terrible state of distress all Thursday and
yesterday. I intended to remain a few days if I thought
it wd. be any comfort to him, but I saw that he really
liked being alone and understood the feeling so well.
Mr. Watson and I came here last evg. He was much

calmer before I left. . . . Wm. goes with my husband to

Barra on Tuesday night, and on Wed. the friends meet at
the College. . . . We have persuaded Wm. to give up

Brooksby and servants when he goes to London in July,
and make the Rouken his home till his College house

is ready.

xii             LABOUR AND SORROW                                          533

    Lady Thomson was a highly accomplished
woman. She wrote at various times a number of

poems, including translations from German poets.
Some of these were collected together in 1866, and

printed privately as a surprise for her in a thin
green - backed octavo volume. Writing to Lady

Minto in 1869, Dr. John Brown says :--l

     I had a letter the other day from Lady Thomson, wife
of Sir William Thomson, the great natural philosopher
and electrician. She is one of the finest creatures I ever

knew, sincere and bright and very keen-minded, and with
a true insight into the real worth of things and thoughts.

     And later he wrote2 to Miss Jessie Crum :--

     I wish William to    --reptorinpt ut  the   green book without
change, except addition,                    in  " Bellagio " and some

others ; and you must have some not unfit. I often think
of her and her life, and yet how much of the deepest and

best delight she got out of it ; and she now understands

the why, or does not care to understand                in the far
                                                It
more exceeding, the eternal.                          it,
                                                                                           ;
     The little book bears the title " Verses by M. T.

Privately printed 1866 and 1874."               was printed

by MacLehose and MacDougall at the Glasgow

University Press. The poems range from 1849 to

869. All are beautiful and some very sad                                   note
1                                               is
                                                                 :
            is                                               a
of sadness and death runs through them. One of
the more joyous, "
                          Think of Me," dated 1850.
                a fine sonnet of later date, "The NightO
There
                         !
arose and girt herself with stars."   p.

     To Mrs. King, in August, Sir William wrote a

        Letters of Dr. John Brown,              2
                                                                 p.
     1                                    197.  fbid.                211.

534  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP, xn

letter of condolence on the death of her daughter,

the wife of Dr. J. Hall Gladstone :--

    I know well that he [Dr. Gladstone], as well as you
and David, cannot want the one great consolation. Yet
I know too well how insufficient even the surest conviction
that the loved one is happy, and the firmest hope of a

transcendently happy meeting to come, are to mitigate
the bitterness of the present grief.

   A photograph taken at this date of Sir William

Thomson shows a face of infinite sadness. The

shadow of his great sorrow lay for long across his

life.

SIR WILLIAM THOMSON, 1870.

From a photograph hy Fergus, Largs.


                CHAPTER XIII

                  THE GEOLOGICAL CONTROVERSY

IN attempting to preserve continuity in the preced
ing chapters, little mention has been made of Sir
William Thomson's contribution to the science of
Geology. When a mere boy he had written a
masterly essay on the figure of the earth ; and in
his undergraduate days he had imbibed the teaching
of Hopkins that the earth, instead of being a mere
shell filled with an igneous molten mass, as was the
once - popular belief, is a solid globe. Though
Hopkins's argument was found to be of doubtful
validity, Thomson demonstrated from other bases
that the earth as a whole is at least as rigid as a
solid globe of steel. By his studies in heat-conduc
tivity according to the equations of Fourier, and by
his investigations in Thermodynamics, he was led
to assign to the age of the earth's heat, and therefore
to the age of the globe itself as a habitable world,
a much shorter duration than had been demanded
by the geologists who were then dominated by the
uniformitarian school of thought.

    Professor J. W. Gregory, F.R.S., after reference

                                                                                 535

536  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                     CHAP.

to Lord Kelvin's claim to be a naturalist in accord
ance with his definition of that term, says : l Lord
Kelvin had an indisputable claim to rank as a

naturalist owing to his contributions to geology,

which may be grouped into four divisions :--

    1. Contributions to physics which explain geo

logical and geographical problems.

    2. His calculations as to the age of the earth.
    3. His disproof of the once prevalent and crude
idea that the earth consists of a solid shell round

a fiery or molten interior.

    4. His contributions to the study of former varia
tions of climate.8

    Geology is deeply, although indirectly, indebted
to him for his explanation of various problems in

meteorology ; for his investigation on tides, and
descriptions of those in the Straits of Dover and the

Mediterranean ; his studies on wave-action ; his con
tribution to our knowledge of the physical properties
of ice ; and his calculations as to the degree of
stability of the sea level.

So far back as 1855 he had written8 on the

use of observations of Terrestrial Temperature for
   1 " Lord Kelvin's Contributions to Geology," Transactions of the Geological

Society of Glasgow, vol. xiii. part ii. pp. 170-186, 1908.
    * In 1877 Sir William Thomson discussed the cause of former local

variations of climate, and showed that a different distribution of land and

water in the Arctic and Sub-Arctic regions would amply account for the
existence in former time of a temperate climate and of temperate vegetation
Ain those latitudes. The persistence of polar ice was mainly due to the present
Arctic Sea being land-locked, and therefore ice-bound.       thousand feet of

depression of the Northern parts of Europe, Asia, and America, would give
an open iceless ocean with only a few small steep islands to obstruct the free
circulation of water from equatorial regions. In an open iceless circumpolar
sea the climate of a small island would be quite temperate.
3 Rep. Brit. Assoc., 1855, pp. 1819. Reprinted in Math, and Phys. Pafert,

vol. ii. pp. I75-177-

xiii THE GEOLOGICAL CONTROVERSY 537

the Investigation of Absolute Dates in Geology, and
had followed this up with others in 1860 and 1861.
In 1862 came his papers1 on the Age of the Sun's
Heat, and one2 on the Secular Cooling of the
Earth.

    In the first of these Thomson pointed out that
the dissipation of energy forbade the idea that the

sun's heat was inexhaustible, and that the persistent
loss of heat by radiation must lower the temperature

of the sun unless new energy was supplied con
tinually by the falling in of meteors, or by gravi
tational shrinkage of his mass. He calculated that
a shrinkage by as little as one-tenth of one per

cent in his diameter would account for all the heat

emitted in 20,000 years, and concluded that his
temperature sinks by 100° Cent, in some time greater

than 700 years, but less than 700,000 years. The
meteoric theory would account easily for a duration

of his heat for 20,000,000 years. A million years

ago the sun was sensibly hotter than he now is.
 Hence geological speculations assuming greater
extremes of heat, more violent storms and floods,
more luxuriant vegetation, and hardier and more
coarse-grained plants and animals in remote anti
quity, are more probable than those of the extreme
quietist or " uniformitarian " school, who suppose
things to have gone on as we see them now for

millions of millions of years. The conclusion drawn

1 Rep. Brit. Assoc., 1862, p. 27, and article in Macmillan's Magazine,

vol. v., March 1862, pp. 288-393.
    a Trans. Roy. Soc. Edinb. vol. xxiii., 1862,                 Reprinted in
Math, and Phys. Papers^ vol. iii. pp. 295-311.    pp.  157-169.

538  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

was that it seems, on the whole, most probable that

the sun has not illuminated the earth for 100,000,000

years, and almost certain that he has not done so
for 500,000,000 years.

    In the second paper he stated that for eighteen

years it had pressed on his mind that those geolo

gists who oppose all paroxysmal hypotheses, and

who deny1 that the actions by which the earth's

crust has been modified in geological history have

been more violent in past time than they are at

present, have overlooked the essential principles of
thermodynamics. Considerations of underground
temperatures led to the conclusion that the consoli

dation of the earth's globe cannot have taken place

less than 20,000,000 years ago (or we should have
more underground heat than we actually have), nor

more than 400,000,000 years (for then the under
ground increment of temperature would be less than
it is observed to be).

    It had been the habit of the geologists2 to make
much more extravagant demands on time. For
instance, Darwin, from the rate of erosion of the
chalk of Kent, estimated that the excavation of the

great valley between the North and South Downs
" required 206,662,400 years, or say, 300,000,000

     1 With reference to the present views of geologists, Professor Gregory
informs me that he thinks there is no doubt that, even before the oldest traces
of life on earth, sedimentary rocks then laid down show that wind and rain
and climate were practically the same as they are to-day. In the oldest sedi
mentary rocks of the north-west Highlands of Scotland, the prevalent wind
was south-westerly, and its power of carrying sand was much the same as it
is now. Still they would not deny that in the interval there may have been
times of more rapid change.

   2 I take this statement, and much more of the present chapter, by permis
sion from the previously mentioned article by Professor J. W. Gregory, F.R.S.

xni THE GEOLOGICAL CONTROVERSY 539

years, and that in all probability a far longer period
than 300,000,000 years has elapsed since the latter
part of the secondary period." But Jukes remarked
that though Darwin's estimate might be excessive,
it was just as likely that the real period was one
hundred times as great, and that the erosion of the
Wealden Valleys may have occupied thirty thousand
million years ! Confident in their views, the geo
logists * paid no heed to Thomson's calculations.

    No doubt the ultra-uniformitarian view then
prevalent, that for endless years the climate of the

earth, and the physical causes tending to denudation
and to the rise and fall of land, had remained of the
same average intensity as we observe them 2 to-day,
was a reaction against the cataclysmic views of
Werner and others, who had ascribed all geological

     1 Exception must be made in lavour of Professor  John Phillips,  who,     when
appealed to by Thomson, wrote as follows :--

                                                    OxKORD, \lthjunc 186 1.
    MY DEAR PROFESSOR, -- . . . Darwin's computations are something aisura
as to the wasting of the sea. For the calculation includes as a co-efficient

the height ! of the cliff. This astonishing error is not the only one. No one

who ever does calculate (among our geologists) attaches any weight to the
        \ In my Life on Earth I        have given some calculations which, for the
result                                 millions only -- and have added not unlikely
period  of stratification, rise to 96

estimate as to the period of coal deposition and other things of the sort.

What you mention of the sun's limited power of heat is very interesting, and

I much regret that your wishes as to the subterranean temperature have not

been more attended to. Topical cold seems possible, from other causes than
currents of cold water downwards, but I would trust that view a good way,
I don't understand the Greenwich case.
                                                                               <t,.

* A charming comment on the uniformitarian doctrine was given by Sir
William Thomson at the close of his subsequent address on "Geological

Dynamics" (see Popular Lectures,        vol. ii. p. 131), where he introduced  from
Kan"t'sA  Collected Works an apposite   parable :--                            have
           large proportion of British  popular geologists of the present day

been longer contented than other scientific men to look upon the sun as
Kontenelle's roses looked upon their gardener. ' Our gardener," say they,
' must be a very        man ; within                of roses he is
has always been   old   is impossible  the memory   die, or be other  the same as   "he
                  ; it                 he can ever                    than he is.'

540 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

changes to violent upheavals and abnormal par

oxysms of climate.
    Determined to be heard, Thomson, in 1865,

threw down the gauntlet by reading a paper1 bearing
the incisive title : " The Doctrine of Uniformity in

Geology briefly Refuted." The following is the
entire text :--

     The " Doctrine of Uniformity" in Geology, as held by
many of the most eminent of British geologists, assumes
that the earth's surface and upper crust have been nearly
as they are at present in temperature, and other physical
qualities, during millions and millions of years. But the
heat which we know, by observation, to be now conducted
out of the earth yearly is so great, that if this action had
been going on with any approach to uniformity for
20,000 million years, the amount of heat lost out of the
earth would have been about as much as would heat, by
1 00° Cent., a quantity of ordinary surface rock of 100
times the earth's bulk. (See calculation appended.)
This would be more than enough to melt a mass of
surface rock equal in bulk to the whole earth. No hypo
thesis as to chemical action, internal fluidity, effects of
pressure at great depth, or possible character of substances
in the interior of the earth, possessing the smallest vestige
of probability, can justify the supposition that the earth's
upper crust has remained nearly as it while from the
whole, or from any part of the earth, so great a quantity
of heat has been lost.
1
                                                                   ii.
                                                                                6,
                                                                                                 7. :

                                                                        is,
    Thomson followed up this pronouncement with
an address to the Geological Society of Glasgow, on
February 1868, on "Geological Time." His opening

words struck the dominant note " A great reform

in geological speculation seems now to have become

Proc. Roy. Soc. Edinb., Dec. 18, 1865, vol. v. p. 512.                                                 Reprinted

in Popular Lectures and Addresses, vol.  pp.

xiii THE GEOLOGICAL CONTROVERSY 541

necessary." He quoted as the orthodox opinion of

geologists of the day a striking passage from Play-

fair's Illustrations of the Huttonian Theory :--

     How often these vicissitudes of decay and renovation
have been repeated it is not for us to determine ; they
constitute a series of which, as the author of this theory
has remarked, we neither see the beginning nor the end,
a circumstance that accords well with what is known
concerning other parts of the economy of the world. In
the continuation of the different species of animals and
vegetables that inhabit the earth we discern neither a
beginning nor an end ; in the planetary motions where
geometry has carried the eye so far both into the future and
the past, we discover no mark either of the commence

ment or the termination of the present order. It is

unreasonable, indeed, to suppose that such marks should
exist anywhere. The Author of nature has not given
laws to the universe which, like the institutions of men,
carry in themselves the elements of their own destruction.
He has not permitted in His works any symptom of
infancy or of old age, or any sign by which we may
estimate either their future or their past duration. He
may put an end, as He, no doubt, gave a beginning to
the present system, at some determinate time ; but we
may safely conclude that this great catastrophe will not be
brought about by any of the laws now existing, and that
it is not indicated by anything which we perceive.

Thomson challenged the entire doctrine.

"Nothing," he said, "could possibly be further
from the truth than that statement. It is per

vaded by a confusion between 'present order,'
or 'present system,' and 'laws now existing' --

between destruction of the earth as a place habit

able to beings such as now live on  and
                                    it,
                                                      a

decline or failure of law and order in the universe

542  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

. . . and the statement that the phenomena pre

sented by the earth's crust contain no evidence

of a beginning, and no indication of progress
towards an end, is founded, I think, upon what
is very clearly a complete misrepresentation of

the physical laws under which all are agreed that

these actions take place." He pointed out that

there must be a resistance to the motions of the

planets, real, even if small. The tides act on the
revolving earth as a friction-brake, and if there were
friction there must be loss of energy ; and modern
theory must account for what becomes of that
energy. The friction of the waters against the
bottom of the sea and against one another, must,

on Joule's principle, generate an equivalent of heat,
and this heat-energy was in the end radiated off into
space. This tidal energy being taken from the

earth produced a retardation in its spinning, as
James Thomson had shown ; and the earth, as a
time -keeper, lost about 22 seconds in each cen

tury. A thousand million years ago the earth

was spinning one-seventh faster than it does now,

and the centrifugal forces tending to break or dis
tort its crust would then be about 30 per cent
greater than they now are, giving rise to more
violent earthquakes. Moreover, not many million
years ago the earth was in a fluid state. " But," he
said, " if you go back to ten thousand million years

ago --which does not satisfy some great geologists
--the earth must have been rotating more than
twice as fast as at present, --and if it had been solid

xin THE GEOLOGICAL CONTROVERSY 543

then, it must be now something totally different

from what it is. Now, here is direct opposition

between physical astronomy and modern geology as

represented by a very large, very influential, and, I

may also add, in many respects, philosophical and

sound body of geological investigators, constituting
perhaps a majority of British geologists. It is quite

certain that a great mistake has been made--that

British popular geology at the present time is in

direct opposition to the principles of natural philos

ophy. . . . There cannot be uniformity.  The

earth is filled with evidences that it has not been

going on for ever in the present state, and that

there is a progress of events towards a state

infinitely different from the present." He then

recapitulated the arguments for a limit. From the

slowing of the earth's rotation it followed that

things have not gone on as at present a thousand
million years. The sun cannot have continued to

illumine the earth many times ten million years.
And, "when finally we consider underground tem

perature, we find ourselves driven to the conclusion

in every way, that the existing state of things on

the earth, life on the earth, all geological history

showing continuity of life, must be limited within

some such period of past time as one hundred

million years."

    Such a challenge the geologists could not refuse
to face. Told in such authoritative terms that they

could no longer presume on unlimited time, but

must "hurry up the phenomena," they resented the

544  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

intervention. The champion who came forth to

answer the challenge was no other than Professor
Huxley, a keen controversialist and master of
dialectic, but imbued with a profound passion for
veracity. On the 19th February 1869, Huxley, as
President of the Geological Society of London, gave
an address,1 in which he sought to combat the
necessity for the reform that Thomson had urged,

and to repel the notion that the current geological
doctrine was counter to physical principles. As he
prefaced his address by likening himself to a special
pleader in the courts who gets up his case and gains
his cause mainly by the force of mother-art and

common sense, he seems to have been conscious

that his attitude was not judicial. On behalf of the
geologists he appealed to " that higher court of

educated scientific opinion to which we are all

amenable " for a verdict of " not guilty." He began

by defining Catastropkism, the doctrine which, in
order to account for geological phenomena, supposes
the operation of forces different in their nature, or

immeasurably different in power, from those we at

present see in operation. The doctrine of violent

upheavals, debacles, and cataclysms in general is
catastrophic, so far as it assumes that these were

brought about by causes which have now no parallel.

By Uniformitarianism, he designated the doctrine
pre-eminently of H utton and Lyell. Hutton had per
sistently, in practice, shut his eyes to the existence

    1 Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society of London, vol. xxv. pt. i.
pp. xxxviii. to lii., 1869.

xiii THE GEOLOGICAL CONTROVERSY 545

of that prior and different state of things before

the formation of the stratified rocks which in theory

he admitted. Both Hutton and Lyell agreed in their

indisposition to carry their speculations a step beyond

the period recorded in the most ancient strata now

open to observation in the crust of the earth. Catas-

trophism had insisted upon the existence of a practi

cally unlimited bank of force. Unifonnitarianism

had equally insisted on a practically unlimited bank of

time. It had kept before our eyes the power of the

infinitely little, time being granted, and had com

pelled us to exhaust known causes before flying to

the unknown. To these two doctrines Huxley now
added a third--Evolutionism --in which geology is

conceived as the history of the earth in the same

sense as biology is the history of living things.
For this school he claimed Kant, and cited a pas

sage from his Cosmogony as anticipating some of the
" great principles " taught by Hutton. " On the
one hand," he declared, " Kant is true to science.

He knows no bounds to geological speculation but
those of intellect. He reasons back to a beginning

of the present state of things ; he admits the possi

bility of an end." Evolution embraced in one

stupendous analogy the growth of a solar system
from molecular chaos, " the shaping of the earth

from the nebulous cub-hood of its youth," through

innumerable changes and immeasurable ages to its

present form, and the development of a living being

from the shapeless mass of protoplasm which we

term a germ.  2N
   VOL. I

546  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

     " I do not suppose," he pursued, " that, at the
present day, any geologist would be found to main
tain absolute Uniformitarianism, to deny that the
rapidity of the rotation of the earth may be diminish
ing, that the sun may be waxing dim, or that the
earth itself may be cooling. Most of us, I suspect,
are Gallios, 'who care for none of these things,'
being of opinion that, true or fictitious, they have
made no practical difference to the earth during the
period of which a record is preserved in stratified

rocks. If Hutton and Playfair declare the course of

the world to have been always the same, point out
the fallacy by all means, but in so doing, do not
imagine that you are proving modern geology to be
in opposition to natural philosophy." But it was
said that it is biology, not geology, which asks for
so much time, that the succession of life demands

vast intervals. Biology takes her time from geology.

If the geological clock is wrong, all the naturalist

will have to do is to modify his notions of the
rapidity of change accordingly. Then dealing
with the three lines of mathematical inference that

seemed to limit the age of the earth to about 100
million years, Huxley pronounced the following

well-known passage :--

    But I desire to point out that this seems to be one of
the many cases in which the admitted accuracy of mathe

matical processes is allowed to throw a wholly inadmissible
appearance of authority over the results obtained by them.
Mathematics may be compared to a mitt of exquisite
workmanship, which grinds you stuff of any degree of

fineness ; but, nevertheless, what you get out depends on

xni THE GEOLOGICAL CONTROVERSY 547

what you put in ; and as the grandest mill in the world
will not extract wheat-flour from peascods, so pages of
formulae will not get a definite result out of loose data.

    This last allusion shows that Huxley did not

appreciate the fact that the most precise and rigid
mathematics may yield definite and sure values for
the higher and lower limits of a numerical result,
without assigning any necessary value between those

limits. He ended thus :--

    My functions as your advocate are at end. I speak
with more than the sincerity of a mere advocate when I

express the belief that the case against us has entirely
broken down. The cry for reform which had been raised
without is superfluous, inasmuch as we have long been
reforming from within with all needful speed. And the
critical examination of the grounds upon which the very
grave charge of opposition to the principles of natural
philosophy has been brought against us rather shows that
we have exercised a wise discrimination in declining to
meddle with our foundations at the bidding of the first
passer-by who fancies our house is not so well built as it
might be.

     Thomson's reply took the form of a masterly

address, Of Geological Dynamics, to the Glasgow

Geological Society on April 5, 1869. Though he

subsequently returned to the subject in 1876 (see
p. 675) and again in 1897, this address marks the

culmination of his views. He asked first to state

that the very root of the evil to which he objected
was that so many geologists were content to regard
the general principles of physics as matters foreign
to their ordinary pursuits. He commented on

Huxley's attitude as an advocate :--

548 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

     Though a clever counsel may, by force of mother-wit

and common sense, aided by his very peculiar intellectual
training, readily carry a jury with him to either side when

a scientific question is before the Court, or may even

succeed in perplexing the mind of a judge, I do not
think that the high court of educated scientific opinion
will ever be satisfied by pleadings conducted on such
precedents. But jury and judge may be somewhat per

plexed as to what it is on which they are asked to

give verdict and sentence, when they learn that Professor
Huxley himself makes the gravest of the accusations
against Hutton and uniformity, which he repels as made
to me.

Huxley had cited the Cosmogony of Kant as

anticipating, and had pronounced Kant to be true to

science, because he knows no bounds to geological

speculation but those of intellect, and reasons back
to a beginning of the present. " Professor Huxley

does not use words without a meaning," said Thom

son, "and these mean that Hutton was not true to

science, when he said, ' The result, therefore, of this

                  is,

                                                               '

                                          It
physical inquiry  that we find no vestige of a

beginning, no prospect of an end.'                                was precisely

because so many geologists had been Gallios who

cared for none of these things that they had brought

so much of British popular geology into direct

opposition to the principles of natural philosophy.
He then pointed out that already in 1860 Phillips had

estimated, from stratigraphical evidence, the antiquity

of life on the earth as possibly being between

thirty-six millions and ninety-six millions of years.
" How many orthodox geologists accepted this
estimate fourteen months ago " He excepted from
                  ?

xiii THE GEOLOGICAL CONTROVERSY 549

this reflection Mr. Geikie,1 who had twelve months
before declared his secession from the prevailing
orthodoxy. He then criticized Huxley's commentary
on the numerical data as to retardation of the earth's
rotation and the cooling of the sun ; and turning to
Huxley's comparison of mathematics to a mill, he
assented to the dictum that pages of formulae will
not bring a definite result out of loose data. " I
have not presented definite results," he replied, " I
have amply indicated how ' loose ' my data are ; and
I have taken care to make my results looser."

    Then, returning to the charge, Thomson added
new paragraphs in support of the view that because
of the former greater heat of the sun and earth
metamorphic causes must have been more active in
ancient times than now ; and he cited from the 1868
edition of Lyell's Principles a statement full of the
same evil tendency to overlook essential principles
of thermodynamics of which he had complained.
The quotations justified him in maintaining that his
call for reform was far from superfluous.

    In conclusion he turned to Huxley's rather scorn

ful reference to the passer-by who had bid them
meddle with the foundations of their house, and

ended with these dignified words :--

     I cannot pass from Professor Huxley's last sentence
without asking, Who are the occupants of " our house,"
and who is the " passer-by " ? Is geology not a branch of
physical science? Are investigations, experimental and
mathematical, of underground temperature, not to be

                            1 Now Sir Archibald Geikie, P.R.S.

550 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

regarded as an integral part of geology ? Are suggestions

from astronomy and thermodynamics, when adverse to a

tendency in geological speculation recently become exten

sively popular in England through the brilliancy and

eloquence of its chief promoters, to be treated by geologists

as an invitation to meddle with their foundations, which
Ia " wise discrimination " declines ? For myself,
                                                   am

anxious to be regarded by geologists, not as a mere

passer-by, but as one constantly interested in their grand

subject, and anxious, in any way, however slight, to assist

them in their search for truth.

    The unflinching tenacity with which Thomson

stuck to his propositions was not less remarkable

than the unvarying courtesy with which he treated
his opponent. Two years later came Huxley's turn.
As the retiring President of the British Association
of 1871, at Edinburgh, it fell to him to introduce

his successor in the chair, which he did in these

memorable words :--

    Permit me, finally, to congratulate the Association that

its deliberations will be presided over by a gentleman,

who in spite of what I must call the trifling and imperti

nent accident of birth, is to all intents and purposes a

Scotchman. For it is in Glasgow that Sir William

Thomson has carried out, now for five-and-twenty years,

that series of remarkable researches which, as I am told

by the most competent authority, places him at the head

of  those who apply    pmhaytshiceaml atpihcsilostoophpehryssictahlemscsieelnvcees,--anadn
in  the front rank of

achievement, which, in this age of the cultivation of science,
and in the pressing rivalry of able and accomplished men

in all directions, confers upon him who realises it the title

of an intellectual giant. On the one hand Sir William

Thomson has followed out to the utmost limit of even that

which has been   dealt with  at a previous meeting of the
                  mean the
Association --I               scientific imagination -- those

xm THE GEOLOGICAL CONTROVERSY 551

speculations which carry men further forward in the pursuit

of truth ; and, upon the other hand, he has, by the versa

tility which is conferred only on the ablest men, been able

to turn his vast knowledge and his remarkable ingenuity

to the perfection and the carrying out of one of those

great feats of engineering which may be looked upon as

among the great practical triumphs of this age and genera

tion. Those are the public, notorious, and obvious feats of

oyobuvriousP--reshidisenpte-erlseocnta. l     What is less known      and   less
                                                                      dare  not,
                                           qualities --are such as I

and will not, here dwell upon ; but upon one matter

which lies within my own personal knowledge I may

be permitted to say of him, as the old poet says of

Lancelot, that

                                           " Gentler knight

                There never broke a lance."

                           CHAPTER XIV

LATER TELEGRAPHIC WORK --THE SIPHON RECORDER

AFTER the triumphant success of the Atlantic tele
graph, Sir William Thomson was associated fo:
many years with various projects for other sub
marine cables. One of the first of these was the

French Atlantic cable from Brest to S. Pierre, a

stretch of 2580 miles. Though the concessiois
were negotiated by French financiers, the Compa1y

was essentially an English one, and was floated in

1868, Thomson and Varley being the consulting
electricians, and Latimer Clark, Henry C. Foide,
and Fleeming Jenkin1 the engineers. The c»ble
was manufactured by the Telegraph Construction
Company, at Blackwall, and laid in June 186f by
the Great Eastern, under the superintendence of

Mr. Willoughby Smith. Thomson was statoned

at Brest to superintend the tests from the lard end

during laying. All went smoothly from fi'st to

last.

    Thomson, Varley, and Jenkin had in 1865 joined
partnership as to their patents ; and \arley's

I1 Jenkin, writing home from the Great Eastern, off Ushant June 20,
says: . .  ".    "Thomson     shook hands    and      wished  me well.  da like
Thomson        (Memoir of  Fleeming Jenkin,    p.  ex.).

                           5S2

CH. xiv LATER TELEGRAPHIC WORK  553

patent for the interposition of condensers to

accelerate signalling proved almost as profitable
as Thomson's patent for the mirror galvanometer.
The partnership continued in force till all the patents
lapsed. Further, Thomson and Jenkin formed a
partnership as consulting engineers ; and they
continued in association until Jenkin's death in
1885. In this way, and also in connection with
the new inventions presently to be mentioned,
Thomson was associated with other enterprises,
amongst which may be mentioned the Falmouth,
Gibraltar, and Malta Company, and the British

Indian Company, both later merged in the Eastern
Telegraph Company ; and the Great Western Tele

graph Company.

    In April 1869 Lord Stanley (later Earl of
Derby), then Secretary of State for Foreign
Affairs, was installed as Lord Rector of Glasgow
University. He became a firm friend of Thomson,

who for many successive years used to spend a few

days at Christmas in visits to Knowsley Park. At
the installation banquet of April 2, 1869, in pro

posing the toast of the Progress of Science and
Literature, and coupling it with the name of Sir
William Thomson, the Chairman, Sir William

Stirling-Maxwell, humorously rallied him on hav
ing encroached on the province of the professor

of literature :--

     The electric telegraph, with which Sir William

Thomson's name is so intimately associated, has taught

our writers many wholesome lessons. It has imposed

554 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

on the expression of thought in this country, and all
over the world, new and very admirable conditions. I
cannot imagine any two writers working under circum
stances and under laws more different than that writer
who contributes to periodical literature, as it is sometimes
supposed, for the humble contribution of a penny a line,
and the writer who writes for the electric telegraph, having
to pay ten guineas a line for the expression of his thoughts.
The one writer may be said to be a man of words, whereas
the other is essentially a man of letters. This lesson has
been taught in many parts of the world by Sir William
Thomson. His electric cable is preaching already all
over the world that doctrine which was so ably enforced
by my noble friend the guest of this evening, that " brevity
is the soul of wit."

    In replying, Sir William alluded to the benefit
of free trade, to the promotion of liberal education,
and to the maintenance of religious instruction in
the national schools of Scotland.

    Sir William Thomson now began to reap sub

stantial pecuniary benefit from his telegraphic

inventions. His first act was to devote a share

of his gains to the University in which he

laboured. He wrote to Principal Barclay :--

                                                         LARGS, Sep. i, 1869.

    MY DEAR PRINCIPAL --A few weeks ago I received a

sum of £3000 for the use of my instruments on the
 Atlantic cables. This is the first payment which has
 been made to me in recompense for what has cost me a
 great deal of thought, labour, and money from 1856 to the
 present time, and I have now a prospect of further return.

      I have always felt grateful to yourself and my colleagues
 for the liberal and friendly spirit which has been shown me
 in respect to my connection with telegraphic enterprise.
 I also feel that whatever success may now come I owe

xiv  LATER TELEGRAPHIC WORK  555

in a great measure to the facilities for experimenting

which the College has afforded me. I am anxious to mark
my sense of these benefits by setting aside something of
what I have received for promoting the cultivation of

experimental science in Glasgow College.

    I am writing now to offer ;£1ooo for the acceptance

of the Senate for this purpose. I shall be much obliged
to you for any suggestions as to the best way of arranging

to make it useful that may occur to you.

   A similar letter was written to his colleague

Professor Allen Thomson, who immediately replied
as follows :--

                                MORLAND, SKELMORLIE, ist Septr. 1869.

    MY DEAR THOMSON -- I received your letter last

evening on my return from a pleasant sail in his steam
yacht with John Burns.1 I am sorry you cannot come to
us this week, but I hope that Sharpey will stay at least
next week with us, and that you will meet him in any
way that may be most agreeable or convenient for your
self, so I beg you to let me know as soon as you return.

     The latter part of your letter has given me much
gratification. First of all, that you should begin to receive
a part of the material reward of so much ingenuity, thought,

and labour as you have bestowed on electrical and mag

netic researches, and next that you should so generously
and appropriately devote a part of your receipts to the
purpose of enabling others to follow in your own dis
tinguished career. As to the manner in which this

object may be best accomplished, I confess that I think
it a very difficult matter to decide. So far as I have any
opinion at present, I am much more in favour of bursaries
than scholarships, meaning by the first assistance during

and by the second after College study. But there may be

other ways, and I will consider the whole matter, and we

may have the benefit among others of Sharpey's opinion,

as he has now had very great experience in such matters.

                                       1 The late Lord Inverclyde.

556     LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                    CHAP.

I hope the weather may continue favourable to your

trip,   and that   --youEvemraysincfienrdelyit    easy  and    beneficial  to
Lady     Thomson.                               yours,

                                                ALLEN THOMSON.

Principal Barclay's reply was equally cordial :--

                                           THE COLLEGE, Sep. 1 1, 1869.

MY DEAR SIR WILLIAM -- As I presume you have by

this time returned from the north, I can delay no longer

to congratulate you on the receipt of the first fruits of

your important discoveries and inventions in connection

with telegraphic science. In common with every one of

your colleagues, I have always felt that it was our duty

and our interest to afford every facility in our power for

experiments by one whose talents and researches reflect

so much honour on our University. Even your verbal

acknowledgment of our desire to                 aid you in     your investi
gations would of itself have been                sufficiently
                                                               gratifying --

arid you have really over-estimated that aid ; but you

have added a more substantial acknowledgment in devot

ing a large proportion of your pecuniary reward to pro

mote in the University the cultivation of that science of

which you are so distinguished a professor. Your very

liberal donation of ;£1ooo for that purpose shall be

announced to the Senate at its next             meeting, when it will

be officially acknowledged. -- Believe          me ever, yours most

truly,                                                  T. BARCLAY.

Sir Wm. Thomson.

    The formal acceptance by the Senate was duly
recorded in the following minute of November 4th,

1869:--

     The Senate resolve to record their thanks to Sir
William Thomson for the donation of £1000 which he
has placed at their disposal, and which they have much
pleasure in accepting ; and they appoint Dr. Allen
Thomson, Dr. Rankine, and Mr. Blackburn (Mr. Black
burn convener) a Committee to consult with Sir William

xiv THOMSON SCHOLARSHIPS 557

Thomson, and to report to the Senate in which way the
sum may be best employed so as to promote the object
contemplated.

    The money thus given provided means for estab
lishing the " Thomson Experimental Scholarships "
to assist deserving students in the Natural Philos
ophy Laboratory. They proved for many years a
great boon, and most attractive to students of the
best sort, and still continue. On several occasions in
after years Thomson himself contributed additional
sums to increase the available annual dividend.
Nor was this his only benefaction of the kind, for
in 1874, when the Neil Arnott Demonstratorship
was created with a sum of ^"1000 given by Dr. and
Mrs. Neil Arnott, Thomson quietly added another
sum of ^2000, thus raising the total capital to

^3000.

    In September 1869 the Parliamentary repre
sentation of the Universities of Glasgow and
Aberdeen became vacant by the appointment of
Mr. Moncreiff to the office of Lord Justice-Clerk,
and Sir William Thomson was asked to stand in
the Liberal interest. At first he declined, and
urged the claims of his friend Archibald Smith, Q.C.
Smith agreed tentatively, then hesitated, partly
on account of the expense ; and, thinking that
Thomson's hesitation had been on his account,
he urged the Liberal Committee to put forward
Thomson, whose nomination would have been

much more acceptable, at any rate in Glasgow.
But Thomson, after consultation with Mr. William

558           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Graham, M.P., as to the actual duties of a Parlia

mentarian, telegraphed on October 8 that he found

even the minimum attendance permissible to a

Member of Parliament inconsistent with his duties

in Glasgow, and definitely declined. Archibald

Smith was therefore put forward, Thomson being

one of the chairmen of his committee. A speech of

Thomson's in his favour was printed and circulated,

eulogizing Smith's mathematical and magnetic work,
pronouncing him to be " a very advanced Liberal,"
and a safe representative in " the Liberal triumph

to which we all look forward."  The election

turned largely upon the then burning question of

religious education in the primary schools. In the
sequel Mr. Gordon, the Conservative candidate,

was elected.

    Late in 1869 a new prospect was disclosed.
For some years a movement had been afoot in

Cambridge for the establishment of a Physical

Laboratory, and the appointment of a professor

ship or lecturership in Experimental Physics. The

Royal Commission on Scientific Education had

given an additional impulse, and the new statutes

of some of the colleges had paved the way to

its realization. As the affair ripened hopes were

raised that Sir William Thomson might be induced

to accept the proposed post at Cambridge ; and
pourparlers were opened by the Master of Trinity

in the following unofficial letter, written on the

suggestion of the Senior Fellows, offering him a

Praelectorship in Science :--

xiv OFFER FROM CAMBRIDGE 559

                                          TRINITY LODGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                                     lotk Nov. 1869.

DEAR SIR W. THOMSON -- A rumour having reached

the ears of some of our Senior Fellows that on sanitary

grounds, and possibly for other reasons, you will not be
altogether indisposed, if occasion should offer, to exchange

your post at Glasgow for another elsewhere, it has occurred

to me and others that probably your own University of

Cambridge might not have lost its hold on your regard.

The reasons for troubling you with a remark which might

otherwise have seemed impertinent is briefly this. By

the statutes of our College we are enjoined, so soon as

certain income is ensured to every Fellow, to elect three

Prelectors, each of whom shall give lectures to the

students of this and other colleges in some branch of

Science or Literature, and for a certain fixed remunera

tion. By an amended statute, which has passed the

Queen in Council, we are further enabled to offer any
such Prelector a place on the roll of Fellows of the

College at the annual examination for Fellowships in

October. The amended statute removes certain practical

difficulties which produced delay in acting upon that

which it replaces, and we are desirous that another

academical year should not pass without the appointment

of at least one Prelector. A Fellowship is now worth

in money value, irrespective of commons, etc., about

£275, with a fair prospect of increase as the property

of the College improves. A Praelector, in addition to

his Fellowship, is entitled to a stipend of .£250. The

                 therefore, worth £525, in addition to
appointment  is,
                                    is
fees which the Praelector entitled to receive from the

students of other colleges.     In      considering the   mode    of
filling up this important                we had regard            to
                             office,                     -- 1st,

the scientific requirements of the University 2nd, to
                                        a;
the probability of obtaining the services of first-rate

representative of the particular branch of science we

might fix upon.     a It  has been suggested to us by those

who ought to know that the higher parts of experimental

Physics constitute        department as yet insufficiently

560 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

represented among us, and this information, joined to the

rumour to which I have adverted at the beginning of

this letter, has induced the Seniors unanimously to request

me to ask you whether it would be agreeable to you that
I should propose you for election at our next examina

tion in October in the capacity of Praelector-Fellow. Of

course we do not expect an immediate answer to a pro

position for which you are unprepared ; but if the thing
is not altogether out of the question I shall be happy, if

you wish          to give you the most detailed information
    is
            it,                                                                        Our
bearing on the office, its duties, and conditions.

desire to make such an appointment as may add to the

reputation of     the  laCroglele. g--e,  while                        confers      benefit upon
the University     at                      remain,                    dear Sir   William, yours
                                        I
                                                    it

                                                             I

                                                                                a
very faithfully,                                                      W. H. THOMPSON.

    P.S.--l forgot to add that the office                                       have described

is  statutably tenable with any Professorship or Public

Lectureship in the University.

    Thomson's reply has not been found, but its

content      shown by the following minute of the
           is
              is

                                   a

                                                                   :
Seniority, of November 16 --

    The Master read letter from Sir William Thomson,

in which he regrets, that owing to Lady Thomson's serious

illness, he       unable at present to accept the office of

Prelector, or to form any new plans. He asks for more

particulars of the office, and also when a decided answer

must be given.

                                                TRINITY LODGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                                                   19 Nov. 1869.

    DEAR SIR WILLIAM THOMSON --We are all exceed

ingly sorry for the cause of your unwillingness, for the

present, to entertain the proposal made to you in my
last and none more so than our good Professor Sedgwick,
    ;

                   is,

                                           I
                                                                 if
who would have hailed your acceptance with enthusiasm.

    There        however, no hurry. We should like, you

found that the change did not suit you, to have a few

xiv OFFER FROM CAMBRIDGE 561

months before next October in which to make inquiries

in other  quarters                ; but we      need          not think of this before
the Lent                          practically,   that           before the st February
          Term --                                             is,

1870.                                                                                          1
     From the
     following                                                                           I
                                p--rovisions  in our amended statutes                             select

the  1
                               :
     . The Praelectors are " to give lectures in such sub

jects as the Master and Seniors shall from time to time

determine."

     2. Such lectures shall be open, the M. and Srs. so       if
determine, to students of other colleges.
     3.
          The Praelectors hold office during the pleasure of thea
M. and Srs., and, those who are Fellows elected in virtue

of their Praelectorship hold their Fellowship on the same
tenure. After ten years' tenure of the Praelectorship they
can, by vote of the M. and Srs., retain their Fellowship

for life, whether married or otherwise, after resigning the
office of Praelector.

     These statutes obviously give the M. and Srs. the right

to determine the minimum residence of the Praelectors.

^This would        be, probably, the major part                   roerqupiroesdsi--bly
      of each     term. Lectures, too, would be
                                                                  a
                                                                                                a
certain number every week during such major part of the

term. If the Praelector were elected to Professorship

in the University, account would doubtless be taken of

this in fixing the minimum N° of lectures, e.g. his

University lectures might be accepted in lieu of College

lectures on certain conditions favourable to students of

Trinity. Here, however, am speaking de meo but in
                                              a                   ;

                                                I

                                                           a
any case venture to pledge the College to be reasonable
I
         I

              is
in its demands on the time of philosopher.
                                              " Professorship " in my previous
     made allusion to

letter. It perhaps not unknown to you that our scientific

men have long perceived our want of an adequate public

rpHeripegrshesesioernn--tPahttiyvhseeicspo,rfoastnhpdee--ctdeopfaamhrtamvaeingngat intdheiosscnrwliybaengdtoianssgupthpbalyitedaonfdoitmehse
                                  II
not seem very distant.
                                                   a
    have to add that                          gave            low, not to say minimum
VOL.
I                                                                                 20
       I

562         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                    CHAP.

estimate of the emoluments of the office in my last. The

M. and Srs. would have the power of making an additional

allowance out of the so-called Tuition Fund, proportional,
let us say, to the number of Trinity men attending the

P.'s lectures. This, I think, would not be less than £100.

All these points, however, could be definitely settled in

case you thought fit to proceed further in this matter.

    With    e--arnI eastm,hodpeeasr  for  the abatement of your domestic
anxieties.                           Sir  William, yours very truly,

                                          W. H. THOMPSON.

    That Sir William had cherished a possibility is
shown by the third letter of the correspondence :--

                                          TRINITY LODGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                                   nth Afar. 1870.

MY DEAR SIR -- The Seniors would desire to see their

way, if possible, to the appointment of a Praelector before
the end of this term, and I should be obliged if you would

inform me whether you have our proposal still under con

sideration, and  whether, before the end of this   month, you
will be able to                                    very truly,
                 give us a final answer. -- Yours

                                          W. H. THOMPSON.

Professor Sir W. Thomson,

            etc., etc.

    Again Lady Thomson's extremely precarious
state must have been the overt reason for Thom

son's hesitant refusal, and the matter dropped at

least until after her death in June 1870. Later in
the year the matter progressed a stage. The Duke
of Devonshire, who was Chancellor of the Univer

sity of Cambridge, signified his desire to build and
equip a Physical Laboratory for Cambridge. This
magnificent offer resulted in the foundation of the
Cavendish Laboratory, which was opened in 1874.
The building was thus assured : the man to create

xiv OFFER FROM CAMBRIDGE 563

the teaching was still to seek. On November 28,
1870, the Vice- Chancellor gave notice that there
would be holden a congregation on Thursday the
9th day of February 1871, when the following grace
will be offered to the Senate : That there be estab
lished in the University a Professorship of Experi

mental Physics. At once Cookson, now Master of
Peterhouse, took the initiative and invited Sir
William to offer himself for the proposed chair.
His reply has happily been preserved :--

                                        GLASGOW COLLEGE, Dec. i, 1870.

      MY DEAR COOKSON -- I thank you very much for

your letter of the 2pth Nov.

      Every decision that I can make in such a matter is

equally painful to me. In other circumstances the com

parative mildness of the climate and the congeniality of

Cambridge society would have decided me without hesi

tation to accept. But now I feel that there is nothing

for me in life but to make the most of what time remains

for doing everything I can do in scientific work. The

great advantages I have here with the new College, the

apparatus and the assistance provided, the convenience

of Glasgow for getting mechanical work done, give me

means of action which I could not have in any other

place. It would be impossible for me to feel as free

from anxiety regarding the duties of any new position,

and especially one of so great importance and responsi

bility as the proposed professorship in Cambridge, as I

feel here after 24 years' habit, and without that freedom

from anxiety I could do nothing in scientific work. But
above all I have an invincible repugnance, in the circum

stances in which I am left, to the idea of beginning a new

life  at  inatlel,reasnt.d--esBpeeliceiavlely   one which would have  been  so
full  of                                       me, yours very truly,

                                               WILLIAM THOMSON.

564 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

    Tait, to whom Thomson sent Cookson's letter

and a copy of his reply, answered by the following

characteristic note :--

    O T.-- Many thanks for the opportunity of perusing
the enclosed. I do not quite agree with all you say to

Cookson, but that does not affect my high opinion of
your resolution and reasons taken as a whole.

                                                                  Yre, T'.

Then Thomson wrote to Helmholtz to sound

him on the subject.

MY DEAR                                  LONDON, Jan. 28, 1871,
                                                THE ATHENAEUM.1

               HELMHOLTZ -- I have been asked by

Stokes and by the Master and Tutor of my College at

Cambridge to write to you asking if you could be induced

to accept a new professorship of Experimental Physics
to be established there. It is much to be desired to

create in Cambridge a school of experimental science,

not merely by a system of lectures with experimental

illustrations, but by a physical laboratory in which

students, under the professor and his assistants, would

perform experiments, and the professor would have all

facilities attainable for making experimental investiga

tions. The Duke of Devonshire has already given

£6000 for the building of the laboratory and making

a commencement of providing it with instruments. I

think it may be confidently expected that funds will not

be wanting for carrying out this part of the plan well.

The University proposes to give £500 per annum to the
professor, whose income will also be increased somewhat
by fees from the students. But if you accept the pro

1fessorship it

              iIs,

                        I

                                                                                                   a
               may say, quite certain that you would

be also appointed at least to a fellowship in St. Peter's

College, which would bring an additional income of ^250
or £300. Thus, believe, the income to be relied on

       Sir William Thomson  had     been elected     in 1870                                          member of    the
Athtnaum Club, under Rule         for distinguished     eminence                                      in science.
                            II.,

xw  HELMHOLTZ AND CAMBRIDGE                                        565

would be not less than £800. But I think it probable

that a praelector-fellowship of Trinity College would be
offered to you, although on this point I speak merely

from my own judgment. The duties of the praelector-

fellowship, a new institution in Trinity College (of which

one in physiology has been given to Dr. Michael Foster,

and it was intended there should be also one in experi

mental physics), would be fulfilled by giving facilities to

members of Trinity College for attending the professorial

lectures : that is to say, if the University professor is

appointed to the praelectorship. Otherwise the praelector

would lecture on physics in Trinity College simply. The

income of the praelectorship would be about £600, so

that the professor if appointed to the praelectorship would

have £1100 per annum.

    I know that the question of amount of income is very

far from the first in respect to the inducements which

might possibly cause you to think of accepting such a

proposal, and I am quite prepared to learn that you are
" absolute for " Berlin. Still, it is a question that must

be weighed before you could decide to accept, and there

fore I have told you what I can regarding it If you

could at all entertain the idea of coming to this country,

I think that the situation at Cambridge would present
many advantages. It would certainly be a most interest

ing field in respect to our profession, as the desire for

physical science is growing stronger and stronger in the

University, and the force of public opinion is steadily

advancing in support of  and to stimulate                          when
                         a
                           it,

                                                               it
stimulus needed. The duties of lecturing would occupy
    is

only twenty weeks out of year, and all the remainder

of the time would be available for experimental or mathe

matical investigation and scientific writing. Will you

give me a line at the earliest to say you think you could
                     I
                            if
                                         if

                                                         it
be induced to accept, or on the contrary you decide

at once against it.    need not say that                     would be a

great gratification and advantage to English scientific men

to have you among us instead of merely having very

rare opportunities of seeing you, and that myself would
                                          I

566            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                       CHAT.

consider the difference of distance from Glasgow to Cam

bridge and Berlin a great gain.

I write necessarily in haste, and can only add that

irrespective of this question I wished to write to you

asking for news of yourself and of your family, and par

ticularly how you have been affected by this terrible war.

I hope very much that you have not now cause for

anxiety in respect to your son or other relations.

I am in London on account of a committee invited to

advise the Admiralty on Designs for Ships of War,

especially in respect to stability, in consequence of the

loss of the Captain, which was upset with 500 men in the
Bay of Biscay last September. When you write address

The College,   Glasgow,     as I am    in London only    for a
few days each  fortnight.              me, yours always  truly,
                           -- Believe

                                       WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Helmholtz, however, was unable to leave Berlin,

where he had but just been appointed to take
charge of the new Institute of Physics.

    Clerk Maxwell was then invited to take the
chair. He was elected in March 1871, and held it
till his death in 1879.

    When in 1870 the weekly journal Nature was
founded as an organ for scientific news, Thomson
was keenly interested. To the first volume he
contributed an important original article " On the
Size of Atoms," which appeared1 on March 31,
1870. Estimates were afforded by four indepen
dent lines of arguments, which may be thus sum
marised :--

    1 This article was reprinted in 1 883 as an Appendix to the second edition
of Thomson and Tait's Treatise. In the same year the same subject was the
topic of a discourse at the Royal Institution, reprinted in Popular Lerturt:
and Addresses, vol. i. p. 147.

xiv               THE SIZE OF ATOMS  567

     (1) Cauchy's theory of the dispersion of light by the
prism indicates that the atoms must be much smaller
than the size of a wave-length of light. In short, optical

dynamics leaves no alternative but to admit that the
diameter of a molecule, or the distance from the centre

of a molecule to the centre of a contiguous molecule in
glass, water, or any other of our transparent liquids and
solids, exceeds a ten-thousandth of the wave-length, or a
two-hundred-millionth of a centimetre.

      (2) Comparing the forces observed in experiments on
the contact-electricity of metals, with the work-equivalent
of the heat evolved in chemical combinations of the same
metals, it would appear that a close approximation to a
chemical compound might be produced if plates of zinc
and copper of a thickness of one-three-hundred-millionth
part of a centimetre were placed close together alternately,

if indeed such thin plates could be made without splitting

atoms.

     (3) From observations on the thickness of the thinnest
films of soapy water, and on the work required to over
come the forces of surface-tension in drawing them out,
and from the work-value of the heat required to convert

water into vapour, it is probable that there are not several
molecules in the thickness of a water-film that is a twenty-
millionth of a millimetre thick.

     (4) From the length of the mean free path of the
molecules of a gas, according to the kinetic theory, the
number of molecules in a given volume of gas may be
inferred ; and as the densities of gases, liquids, and solids are

known, it may be deduced that the distance from centre

to nearest centre in liquids and solids is not greater than

one one-hundred-and-forty-millionth part, nor less than one
four-hundred-and-sixty-millionth part of a centimetre.

    The result is thus summed up. To form some con
ception of the degree of coarse - grainedness indicated,
imagine a rain-drop or a globe of glass as large as a pea l

1 In the later discourse         at the Royal Institution, in 1883, this conclusion

was modified by   s"ubstituting  for a pea a football, "or say a globe of 16 centi
metres diameter.

568  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                  CHAP.

to be magnified up to the size of the earth, each con

stituent molecule being magnified in the same proportion.

Then the magnified structure would be more coarse
grained than a heap of small shot, but probably 'less
coarse-grained than a heap of cricket-balls.

Glasgow University underwent a great trans

formation in the year 1870. Founded in 1451 by a
Bull of Pope Alexander V., its once handsome quad

rangles had grown dingy, its buildings dilapidated

and inadequate, and its surroundings altogether

squalid, insanitary, and even dangerous.  For

many years an agitation had been on foot for its

removal to more suitable quarters, when the

development of the North British Railway, by

demanding the site for the purposes of a goods

station, brought matters to a crisis. If the city

would but assign a new site, the sum payable by

the Railway for compensation would go far towards

the cost of rebuilding. Government aid was also

sought for funds that the new buildings might be

adequate. A commanding and worthy site was,

after protracted negotiations, assigned on the top

of Gilmore Hill, overlooking the Kelvin burn half

a mile from the point where it empties itself into

the Clyde. Here, with the aid of a grant of some

.£120,000 from the Imperial Treasury, the noble

pile of the present University was erected. For

some three or four years the buildings had been

rising toward completion.

From a speech delivered by Sir William Thom

son at Greenock on April 18, 1870, in aid of the



xiv  NEW UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS  569

building fund, it appears that for the purchase of
the site, the erection of the building including the

hospital, medical school, and the official residences

of the professors, the estimated cost was .£360,000.
The railway company paid .£100,000 for the site
of the old College, and ^: 27,000 was raised by
public subscription. The fine Bute Hall, between
the two quadrangles of the new building, was
added a few years later at the cost of the Marquis
of Bute.

    On May-Day 1870 the last degree-giving in the
old College was celebrated. Sir William Thomson

was not present ; and the severe domestic bereave

ment which fell upon him six weeks later prevented
him from taking any active part in the removal of

his laboratory to its new quarters in the western

end of the chief block on Gilmore Hill. The work

of superintending the removal fell upon his nephew,

Dr. James T. Bottomley, who had resided with him

for several years, and upon his faithful old assistant

Donald MacFarlane. The official residence assigned
to Sir William Thomson was at the end of the Pro

fessors' Court, only a few paces from his lecture-
theatre and laboratory. In the new theatre were

installed many of the time-honoured appliances used
in the old College ; and to the well- lighted new

rooms provided for laboratories were brought the

treasured instruments and paraphernalia which had

been accumulating in the dark cellar and the

deserted Blackstone lecture-room of the earlier
time. A capital account of the new Physical

570  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Laboratory of the University was given in Nature
of May 9, 1872.

    This is the appropriate place to narrate the new

and important development in submarine telegraphy
with which at this stage Sir William Thomson en
riched the world, when he devised his celebrated

instrument called the Siphon Recorder.

    For nearly two years he had been very closely
occupied in the realization of an idea which had
long before presented itself to him of constructing
an apparatus which, while as sensitive to minute
impulses as his earlier mirror galvanometer, should
leave an actual record of the message received

through the cable from the distant sending station.
Already in 1860, in his Encyclopedia Britannica

article (see p. 386 supra), he had written --

    To ink a pen so that it may mark a dash on the
moving paper as long as it is held on by the electro
magnetic force of the feeblest signal-current that it is in

other respects desirable to use, is the invention wanting to
supersede relays in recording apparatus for the Morse
system.

    He had also realized --as his Good Words article
(p. 508) shows -- the gain in substituting for Morse's

method of dot and dash the Steinheil plan of signals,
in which, by the use of currents of different polarities,

movements to right and left are employed. A dash

takes more time than a dot, but a movement to the

left may be as rapid as one to the right ; moreover,
the use of alternating polarity helps to reduce the
cable retardations. He had used the Steinheil plan

xiv THE SIPHON RECORDER s;1

for years with his mirror galvanometer; but to record
the movements automatically was a new problem.

     The friction of a pen or pencil on a moving tape

of paper is far too great to permit the recording

point to be thrust to right or left by the delicate
electric impulses that suffice to deflect the little
mirror of the galvanometer. To record cable-
signals, therefore, some means must be found of
abolishing friction and of making the recording pen
light as gossamer.

     One of the earliest attempts at such a receiv
ing instrument was the "Spark Recorder" which,
though never introduced commercially, is of interest
on account of the principles used in its construction,
and because it to some degree foreshadowed the
more successful instruments of later date. Its

action was as follows :--An indicator, actuated by

the currents constituting the signals, was caused to
take a to-and-fro movement. This indicator was

connected to a Ruhmkorff coil capable of sending a
continual succession of sparks to a horizontal metal
plate laid below the moving part of the indicator.
Over the surface of this plate there was passed

mechanically, by clockwork, at a uniform speed, a
ribbon of prepared paper or other material capable
of being acted on by the sparks, either by their
chemical action, their heat, or their perforating

 force. The record of the signals presented an
 undulating line of spots or fine perforations ; and
 from the character and succession of these undula

 tions the signals could be interpreted.

572  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                        CHAI-.

After many months of thought and labour in

building experimental instruments, success came

with a different apparatus of the following nature.

Between the poles of a powerful electro-magnet (or

later a very strong compound horseshoe magnet)

there was hung a lightly-suspended coil of fine wire

forming part of the circuit. This coil, when any

                        it
                                           it,
small electric current traversed                experienced

forces tending to turn  to right or left in its

place between the poles, just as in the mirror

galvanometer the tiny magnet and mirror turn

within the surrounding coil. A hair-like glass tube

(vaccine tubing, in fact) about two inches long,by
bent sharply to form siphon, was suspended
                a
silk threads and attached to the suspended coil, so
                    it
that the end of the siphon would participate in anyaa

movement of the coil.        It  was filled with ink, and

the ink electrified by small special electrifying

machine, causing  to spurt forward from the end

of the siphon in jet of exceeding fineness. Opposite

this jet glides the paper ribbon receiving the fine ink

line -- straight when no signals are being sent,

jagged with indentations to one side or the other

as the signals drive the siphon hither or thither. The

accompanying facsimile from sample of the records
                        is
                                     a

so made. Sir William gave the name of Siphon

Recorder to this ingenious and beautiful apparatus.

XIV  THE SIPHON RECORDER  573

      The accompanying figure shows the instrument in one

of its later simplified forms. Two upright bundles, of

steel plates constitute the permanent magnet, between the

upper ends of which swings the signalling coil that moves
the delicate ink siphon. The paper ribbon travels slowly

                              THE SIPHON RKCORDEK (later pattern).

from one reel to the other beneath the recording tip of
the siphon. At the top is situated the " mouse-mill," a
little influence-machine of compact form which electrifies
the ink.

    It was patented in 1867, but required nearly
three years of incessant work to bring it into
satisfactory shape. On March 9, 1869, Sir William
was able to speak of it to Sir James Anderson in
the following terms :--

574  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                      CHAP.

                                           March 9, 1869.

    MY DEAR SIR JAMES -- I enclose some specimens of
my new recorder's performance. I have succeeded in
giving it much increased sensibility, and, indeed, I can

increase it farther almost without limit. Thus, through
any length of line, however great, it will, I believe, be

able to do all that the mirror can do, and as quickly, with

the advantage of leaving a permanent record. It may be

read off by eye, I think, probably with as much ease as

the mirror during the actual arrival of the signals. But

I would advise (however confident we may come to feel
as to the new instrument) that the mirror should be
trusted to in the first place. The new instrument may

be put in circuit simultaneously with the mirror without

either disturbing the indications of the other injuriously ;
and thus, without loss of any practical work, we may have

a competitive trial of the two systems.

As the mirror is to be trusted to for opening work, I

do not urge you to go to the expense of having recorders

made just now for the three stations. But as it cannot

be very great (certainly, I should think, less than £150),

you may perhaps think it right to order them at once.

If so, please let me know as soon as possible, as there is
not much time to spare. If you are satisfied to try the

new instrument at one station, you may have my present

one, which, though a trial instrument, is available for

actual work, as long as you       requireit,      in testing  its
                                                  THOMSON.
usefulness. -- Yours very truly,  WILLIAM       is

One advantage of such a recorder                    that its

operation involves far less strain upon the nerves

of the clerk in charge of the receiving station, who,

when watching the quivering spot of light from                a

mirror galvanometer, fears to take his eyes from

the instrument lest he miss a movement of the

spot. There no such anxiety with the recorder,is

xiv THE SIPHON RECORDER 575

as the signals on the ribbon can be read off at

leisure.

    The instruments, both experimental and com
mercial, were constructed in the workshops of
Mr. James White of Glasgow, whose name was
associated for forty years with Sir William Thom

son's inventions in the capacity of instrument

maker.

    A few months later the recorder was installed

for trial on the French Atlantic cable, one instru
ment being sent to Brest under the charge of

J. D. H. Dickson, another to St. Pierre under that

of W. F. King, another pupil. By April 1870
the Anglo-Mediterranean and British-Indian Tele

graph Companies were prepared to entertain pro
posals to adopt the recorder, and Sir William wrote

to say that he and his partners would expect a
royalty of ^1000 per annum from each of these
companies for the duration of the patent.

    The first exhibition of the Siphon Recorder in

England took place on June 23, 1870, when, on the
occasion of the completion of the British-Indian
submarine telegraph by cables stretching from Fal-

mouth to Bombay, a demonstration was given at
the London residence, Arlington Street, of Mr.
(afterwards Sir John) Fender, and was witnessed
by the Prince of Wales (now our King) and the
 Duke of Cambridge. Punch made the exhibition
of the new instrument the occasion of a mock-

heroic poem, in the issue of July 9th, under the
title of Tempus Fugit :--

576                    LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                     CHAP.

When Piccadilly's ablaze, in the height and the heat of the season --
Rises a gaily hung tent in the yard of the mansion of Fender --

Mansion belit and bepictured and crowded with stateliest swelldom,

Swelldom that, down from blood royal, in Wales and in Cambridge embodied,

Flows through the pipes of the Peerage -- Diplomacy -- Ministers-- Members --

Thence to the Magnates of Money and so to the syndics of Science.
Ceaseless the buzz and the bowing, the flashing of stars and garters,
Ceaseless the mopping of brows and imbibing of cooling refreshments,

Endless the glare and the glitter and gossip --the wealth and the wittles,

What have they met to accomplish, these leaders of fashion and science ?
What is it brings them together, before the small syphon that, waving,
Scatters its fine jet of ink in accord with the pulses electric,

So making plain to the eye what the spark through the wire is conveying ;
What is transacting to-night in the tent of the mansion of Fender ?
Lo, 'tis Britannia stretching invisible hands under ocean,
Bringing the furthermost East and the uttermost West into contact ;

So does the spark of our wires outpace e'en the fleet foot of Chronos !
Miracle-workers are we -- sitting here in the mansion of Fender,

Gossiping  thus   a"t  our ease, over  Continents,     HTeimmisep,he"reGse, t  Oceans,
Saying to  space       Be no more,"    and to baffled                          thou behind me ! "

    As so usual in journalism, this account omits the
name of the man of science whose achievement was

thus being celebrated.

   A month later Sir William Thomson was busily

occupied with the installation of the recorder on the
Falmouth - Malta cable. Thence he wrote to his
sister-in-law, Miss Jessie Crum, to tell of his work: --

                                                       PORTHCURNO, July 2 1.

We found Leitch here with the instrument on Satur

day, and by Monday we had it running fairly well. On

Tuesday we could offer it as quite ready to do the Com

pany's work, if their clerks could read it. One or two of

them in the course of a few odd half-hours have learned

to decipher            but little practice few days) will be
                  it,                                  it
                                 a                       (a

necessary to allow them to read                              easily enough for

practical purpose. Meantime the superintendent here

(Bull, one of my old Agamemnon A.T.C. staff) and his
                                                           will do their work
clerks seem quite convinced that                       it

xiv             THE SIPHON RECORDER                                                                                   577

with more ease to themselves, more speed, and more

accuracy than the mirror. So the days of signalling by
the " spot of light " are numbered, and a luminous
electrified pen will succeed the mirror. I enclose a small

but very clear specimen of its work. . . . This evening

we expect extra clerks from London to learn or take
                                                         I

                                                                 is it,
                                                                      a
the place of some of those here and allow them to learn

it. As soon as we see them fairly in train shall leave,

but that cannot be before Monday, as there                               great

block on the line owing to this wicked war, stopping

European telegraphs, and causing numerous commercial
messages to " cancel orders," which will likely last till
Saturday night. Sunday may possibly be a quiet day, and

     so must be used for trials which cannot be done when
if
messages are passing.                   am afraid        will be week
            is  I                                                 a
                          I
                                                                          I
                                        I

                                                     it
from now before can be with you at the Rouken, as

must       be   betwttoer.d--ayYsouinr   London.         am very  glad poor
Fairy                                   affectionate  brother,      W. T.

   A kindly letter from Helmholtz elicited the

following reply --
                :

                         It
                               I is

                                   I
                              PORTHCURNO, PENZANCE, July 29, 870. 1

     Mv DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- thank you most warmly

for your kind letter.                   indeed, as you say, an un

speakable great loss which have suffered. My sense of

    goes on increasing every day and through all myit
occupations, after the first shock. That the end was

certainly a happy relief for my dear wife from incessant

suffering has done nothing yet to diminish the desolation

in which has left me.                   am very sorry to think that
is I
          it is
              I
                 it

                                    I
                                                            I

                                                                       I
there now no prospect of meeting you soon as had

hoped.          could have spoken to you of these things but

     feel     impossible to write.      Meantime what             onsupmpeo--se
     the   best medicine for me         has been forced

sheer hard work. The completion of the cables between

England and India two months ago has led to an urgent

demand for my recording instrument [an electrified pen

     very fine capillary siphon) shooting ink at the paper]
(a
           I

                                                                                                                   2

                                                                                             P
     VOL.

578           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                         CHAP.

of which, I think, I told you when I saw you last in

Heidelberg. I have been here, at the English terminus

of the Falmouth,1 Lisbon, Gibraltar, and Malta cable, for

nearly a fortnight, and have got the recorder into full

action, writing down every signal that passes through the

cable either way, between this and Lisbon. I enclose a

specimen of its performance, on which I have written the

interpretation in ordinary (but less clear ! ) lettering and
figures. The power used at Lisbon is only eight small

sawdust (Daniell's) cells. At this end the cable is con

nected with one plate of a condenser equal in electro

static capacity to about 100 nautical miles of cable, the

other plate of which is connected with the earth (that is
in this case the iron sheath of the cable), a mirror

galvanometer (of very dull construction) with 25OOX
1o9 cms. per second of resistance2 reckoned in absolute

electro-magnetic units, and my new instrument, the coil of

which has only 1 oo X I o9 of resistance, are both in

circuit between the cable and one plate of the condenser,

or the other plate and the earth. The resistance of the

cable itself is 8200 X ro9, and its length 823 nautical

miles. Th meessages are as yet received practically on

the mirror, but operators are daily learning the new

instrument. Even in the specimen I send you you may

see an advantage of the new instrument. The repetition
of the word " Anglais " would, had the practical operators

been using have been unnecessary and half a minute
     if                    is

               is                                 ;

             it,                                      is
of time would have been saved. The cable full of work

throughout the twenty-four hours.

         hope to be able to leave for Glasgow (where theIII in
removal to the new College going on energetically)

two days, all being nearly in train here.

     would feel much obliged by a single line from you

to-day this reaches you.   I  address Berlin because

read in Nature        a  fortnight ago that you had gone there

21   So called, no doubt, because the first intention was to have the terminus

at or near Falmouth.

     The signalling will be much clearer in the received messages when the

galvanometer  thrown out.

xiv           THE SIPHON RECORDER                                        579

from Heidelberg ; and judge at all events that it will run

less risk so of finding communications stopped than if it

were addressed to Heidelberg. Tell me also if possibly

after all you will be in England this autumn. I shall

not go  to the   British Association,           but I hoped to   persuade
you to  come                                     always truly,
                to Scotland. --Yours

                                                            W. THOMSON.

    He was detained at Porthcurno some time longer,
as the following letters to Miss Crum show :--

                                                             PORTHCURNO, Aug. i .

     Day after day passes, and every one has up to now
brought some fresh matter of importance requiring atten

tion. Even yesterday (after church, evening service, and
my late bath in the sea, which I generally take just before

going away for the night) there came an opportunity for
trying the recorder alone (till then the " mirror " having
been always in circuit with                               to be used for the
          I

                                               is
                                                     it,
practical work, while a clerk learning the recorder in
                                                                         is
separate room). The result of putting out the mirror,                        aa
although
              expected an improvement, was surprising.
...Bull (the superintendent) was much struck with it.
So he has set to-day to make arrangements for doing

practical work on the recorder, and discarding the mirror

as soon as possible. . . . The business                          really of great
                                I

                                                           a is
importance. As soon as Leitch can leave the instrument

here (or rather                 new and more perfect one to be sent
I
from White's) he will have to commence                           progress east
    a
ward with seven recorders to be installed at Lisbon,
                I
Gibraltar, Malta, Alexandria, Suez, Aden, and Bombay.
                             a
So the more thoroughly          do the thing now, the less

trouble there will be to myself and others henceforth.

For instance, hope to escape having to go to Lisbon,

Gibraltar, and Malta myself in Sept. and October by

getting all well in train here. . .             .

        have  been            to Land's End this        ismovrneirnyg,grwanhdic--h wild
thing not     to be           missed. The scene
precipitous headlands of granite -- Cyclopean architecture,

and raging tide below, though the sea was very calm.

58o  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

                                                                   Aug. 3, PORTHCURNO.

    You would scarcely believe, and perhaps can scarcely
understand, what a pain the intelligence of your letter,
which I have just received, has given me. I had thought
of the poor little creature,1 though not likely to be very
well again, still giving me a kind welcome and showing
some joy when I return. But I feel something quite
different from the regret for a faithful little friend like

that. It seems to me as if a link were gone, and the

bitterness of my great grief comes strongly on me. This
is unspeakable and not to be written about, but it is

always present, and worse after the first shock, when

what I lost was nearer.

    He had now purchased the yacht Lalla Rookh,

which was destined to play so large a part in the
next few years of his life (see p. 585), and on leaving
Cornwall sailed in her to the Hebrides. Returning
he wrote to Helmholtz.

                                                GLASGOW COLLEGE, Sept. 8, 1870.

    MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I received your letter only

last night, on returning from a yacht cruise of a fortnight

among the Western Islands. I have read it with the
liveliest sympathy, and I thank you for it very much. I
hope you will not be displeased that I have given an

extract from it to be published (without names) in the
Glasgow Herald (newspaper).

     We are all deeply interested in your case,2 and all (with
scarcely an exception) agree in abhorrence of the whole
action of the French from the declaration of war till now.
 I believe France itself will be better and happier ten years
hence for the bitter lesson you are now teaching it. But it
is a terrible price you are paying for what is only your

    1 [This refers to the little black -and -tan terrier "Fairy," which had

 belonged to Lady Thomson.]
      2 The reference here is to the circumstance of Helmholtz's son then serving

 in the campaign of the Franco- Prussian War. Sec p. 588.

xiv THE SIPHON RECORDER 581

right. There is only one point on which we can feel neutral

here, and that is sorrow for the wounded and those who

are bereaved. We are trying to raise funds to assist in

some slight degree, but all the subscriptions that can

possibly be raised cannot be more than a mite towards

the vast amount required. Before I left the cruise I had

sent a subscription to a fund that was instituted for aid

to the German wounded, and intended to send an equal

sum for the French as soon as a subscription for them

should be commenced. But during my absence it was

arranged that the fund first instituted should be for German

and French wounded. Instead of sending the other sum
as a second subscription to this fund, if you will allow me

I will send it through you for any purpose in connection with

the hospitals or with bereaved families that you may judge
right. I therefore send you halves of Bank of England

notes for £2$, and shall be obliged by a line from you

to say that you have received them. I keep the other

halves meantime, and shall send you them instantly when

I hear that you have the first halves. I hope that this is

not troublesome to you, and wish I could do anything to

assist  in the smallest  way to relieve  the vast mass of suffer
         the middle of   which you are
ing in                                   now working. --Yours

always truly,            WILLIAM THOMSON.

    On September 1 1 he wrote from Thornliebank
to Mrs. King that he hoped to go to Arran to see
her, but that he " must let the British Association
be either finished or nearly so before I can leave,
as I have a good deal of writing to do for it. "

    He did not go to the Association at Liverpool,
but helped to prepare the reports of two committees
--on Harmonic Analysis, as applied to Tidal Obser
vations, and on Electrical Standards -- and soon
returned south. From Cowes, on September 20, he

582  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN   CHAP.

wrote to Miss Crum that matters had advanced about

agreement for the use of the recorder on the Indian
telegraphs. The message, pencilled on a couple of

pages torn from his "green book," continued: --

At Cowes the Lalla Rookh exceeded my expectations.

I came back to Southampton intending to get as far
towards Swanage (unknown region) same night. I got as
far as Bournemouth Sat. night late. Sunday forenoon

exquisite church, pitiful service (would have been less
fatiguing in Latin, as then one would not have had

the fatigue of straining the ear to try to hear). Boat
afternoon to Swanage (10 miles) where very kind recep

tion from A. S. and his wife. I shall probably sail to

Belfast in Lalla Rookh, Frid. to Monday. Arran, Tuesday.

Rouken, Thursday or Frid.  No time for more as plank
                                                            W.
ashore. -- Yours,

    It was early in this month of September, just
when all Europe was watching the Prussian armies
closing in upon Louis Napoleon at Sedan, that
England was horrified by the news that H.M.S.
Captain had gone down with five hundred hands
while on her trial voyage in Vigo Bay. Sir William
Thomson's labours as a member of the Admiralty

Committee that resulted from the inquiry into the

loss are recounted elsewhere (see p. 731).

    The formal transfer of the University to its new

quarters took place on Monday, November 7, 1870,

the Principal and professors marching in procession
from the old College in High Street to the new

buildings on Gilmore Hill. A civic banquet cele

brated the occasion, but Sir William Thomson,

being in mourning, did not attend it.

xiv  DESIGN OF SHIPS OF WAR  583

    With the new year came the labours of the

Admiralty Committee on the Design of Ships of
War, under Lord Dufferin as chairman, which met in

London, fortnightly, for several months. Sir William

was compelled to depute much of his duties to his

nephew, James T. Bottomley, until the end of the
session. The following letter to James Thomson
shows the nature of the questions in which Sir

William Thomson interested himself.

                                             COLLEGE, GLASGOW, Jan. 31, '71.

    MY DEAR JAMES -- I have just got back from London
this morning, where I have been since Friday attending

meetings of the Committee on Designs for Ships of War.
This is the second set of meetings we have had, and I

shall have to go again on Thursday night next week, and

so on every second week, to attend three meetings (Frid.,
Sat., and Monday) each time. We have, although not
yet part of the proper business of the committee, had a
good deal of discussion of the " hydraulic " method of

propulsion (see pamphlet sent by book post, which please
return soon, not later, say, than by Tuesday's dispatch of
next week). The facts regarding the Waterwitch seem
to show that when the thing is done on better principles
and with better details great results may be anticipated.

     I have been making some calculations, and it seems,
so far as I can judge, that if water is discharged by an

orifice, properly shaped both outside and inside, under
 the level of the sea at the stern, it might be a more

 economical propeller than the screw.

    Sundry letters to Miss Jessie Crum reveal the
busy occupations of these months.

    Mar. 4 [a post card].--Recd- your letter in London

just as I was leaving for Plymouth on Monday afternoon.
Tried the Hotspur (Ram) outside the breakwater on

584  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                             CHAP, xiv

Tuesday, to see the green water breaking over her bow

and washing up to the turret. Tried also the Waterwitch

(hydraulic propeller) with little satisfaction. Dined at

...Admiral Houston Stewart's. . . . Next day attacked aI
merchant ship . . . with a torpedo . . . etc., etc.

got back in time for my lecture on Thursday morning.

Heard Dr. Raleigh on Sunday, also saw Mrs. Faraday

and Miss Barnard.  Mar. ii, ADMIRALTY, Sat.

     I write in the middle of the meeting, during a general
sea-fight, the admirals all attacking the Cerberus, Hydra,

and Cyclops very vehemently. You must not, therefore,

expect anything involving continuous thought or collected

ideas, which the din of action renders impossible. I was

engaged to dine with Varley (at his club) yesterday, to
discuss with Lord Sackville Cecil (who has charge of my
last recorder sent recently to Porthcurno) and go to the

...Royal Institution to hear Dr. Carpenter on deep-sea results.
       I go this evening to Cambridge to stay till Monday.
Porter (Mrs. Tait's brother, who is tutor of Peterhouse,
and was a student of my father's, and one of my own

earliest) had asked me to spend a Sat. till Monday along
with Mr. Dickenson * at Peterhouse. . . . On Tuesday we
go to see the Glatton, just launched at Chatham. And
on Tuesday night I return to Glasgow. . . .

    He was eager to get over the few remaining
weeks of the session, that he might begin cruising

on his yacht.

      1 Mr. Lowes Dickenson, who painted the portraits of Cookson and of
Lord Kelvin now hanging in Peterhouse.

                   END OF VOL. I

     Printedty R. & R. CLABK, LIMITED,

THE LIFE

                                                                OF

WILLIAM THOMSON

          BARON KELVIN OF LARGS

                                                        BY b

         SILVANUS ?y THOMPSON

                             IN TWO VOLUMES
                                   VOL. II

           MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED

             ST. MARTIN'S STREET, LONDON

                                           1910

first Edition February 1910
   Reprinted A ugust 1910

                    CONTENTS

                    CHAPTER XV

THE "LALLA ROOKH," THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION, AND THE
                                      " HOOPER "

The Lalla Roekh, 585 ; Refitting for a Cruise, 585 ; Non-sectarian     PAGES
        Education, 590 ; Work on the Yacht, 594 ; Reunion of Comrades
       in the C.U.M.S., 597; President of the British Association,

597 ; Introduced by Huxley, 599 ; The Address, 599 ; Effects of
the Address, 609; Helmholtz visits Scotland, 612; Cruising,

614; Experiments on Ripples, 614; Prolongation of Galvano-

.....meter Patent, 619; The Western and Brazilian Telegraph Co.,

624 ; Manufacturing the New Cable, 625 ; A Trip to Gibraltar,

626 ; Elected to Life Fellowship at Peterhouse, 628 ; The

Hooper, 629 ; Scientific Work, 633 ; James Thomson appointed
to the Glasgow Chair of Engineering, 634 ; The Hooper sails,
637 ; The Sounding Machine, 637 ; At Madeira, 637 ; The
Misses Blandy, 638                                              585-639

                    CHAPTER XVI

                    IN THE 'SEVENTIES

A Cambridge Examinership, 640 ; President of the Royal Society of

Edinburgh, 641 ; Inaugural Address to the Society of Telegraph

Engineers, 642 ; To Madeira  again,  645 ; Engagement  "  to Miss
Blandy, 645 ; Announcement   of the   Marriage, 647 ;     Nether-

hall," 649; Prof. Andrew Gray's Reminiscences, 651 ; Wreck
of the La Plata, 654 ; Owens College, Manchester, 655 ;

Activities of the Period, 658 ; Lighthouses, 658 ; Visits America

for the Centennial Exhibition at Philadelphia, 668 ; Thomson's

Reports, 670 ; Bell's Telephone, 670 ; British Association Meeting

                             V

                    350656

vi LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

of 1876, 673 ; Helmholtz's opinion of Thomson, 677 ; Proposed           PAGES
as Master of Peterhouse, 679 ; The Compass, 679 ; The Sounding
Machine, 68 1 ; Elected Foreign Associate of the Institut of

France, 682 ; Electric Lighting and Transmission of Power, 683 ;
Work on Elasticity, 686 ; Article on Heat, 688 ; Calculating

Machines and James Thomson's Integrating Mechanism,  692 ;
Refusal of the Cavendish Chair, 694 . . .                   640-695

            CHAPTER XVII

NAVIGATION : THE COMPASS AND THE SOUNDING MACHINE

Thomson's Love of the Sea, 696 ; His Contributions to Navigation,
      697 ; The Kelvin Compass, 697 ; Defects of the Old Marine
      Compasses, 698 ; Thomson's Improvements, 702 ; His Account

       of the Invention, 705; The Astronomer-Royal's Opinion, 710;

Admiralty Officials' Objections and Apathy, 710; Adoption in

the Navy, 715; James White, Optician, 717; The Sounding

Machine, 719; The Depth Recorder, 723; Lighthouse Lights,

724 ; The Tides, 729 ; The Tide-Gauge, Tidal Harmonic

Analyser, and Tide Predicter, 730 ; Admiralty Committee on
Ships of War, 731 ; Designs of Dreadnought and Indomi

table, 735                                                      696-735

            CHAPTER XVIII

            GVROSTATICS AND WAVE MOTION

Dynamics of Rotation, 736 ; Experiments on Spinning-Tops and

Gyrostats, 737 ; Liquid Gyrostats, 740 ; Royal Institution Dis

course on Elasticity, 743 ; The Vortex-Theory of Matter, 744 ;

The Gyrostatic Compass, 745 ; Waves, 745 ; Lecture on Waves

to the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, 748  . 756-752

                     CHAPTER XIX

                                      IN THE 'EIGHTIES

Progress of Electric Lighting, 753 ; First Electrical Measuring Instru
       ments, 755 ; The Standard Electric Balance, 756 ; The British

      Association of 1880, 760 ; Revision of T and T', 761 ; The

       Faure Accumulator, 765 ; Promotion of a Company, 769 ;

                        CONTENTS                                             vii

                                                                                                                                            PACES

Thomson withdraws from the Promotion, 770 ; Address and

....Papers at the B.A. of 1881, 770; The Paris Electrical Con

gress, 775; Lighting his House by Electricity, 776; The

adjourned Paris Conference, 787 ; Lecture on Electrical Units to
the Institution of Civil Engineers, 792 ; Address to the Midland
Institute, 798 ; Awarded the Copley Medal, 799 ; Further
work on Units, 800 ; Electrical Instruments, 804 ; B.A.
Address at Montreal, 806                                                   7S3-8O9

                    CHAPTER XX

   .....THE BALTIMORE LECTURES

The Johns Hopkins University, 810; Invitation to Thomson to
        Lecture, 811 ; The Audience, 814 ; Difficulties of accepting the
       Wave Theory of Light, 816 ; Equations of Motion in an Elastic

        Solid, 820 ; Difficulties in the Solid Elastic Theory, 822 ; Models
and their Use, 834                                                         810-839

                    CHAPTER XXI

GATHERING UP THE THREADS

Third Refusal to go to Cambridge, 840 ; The Bangor Address,

845 ; Electrical Instruments, 846 ; Professorial Work, 851 ;

Royal Institution Discourse on Capillary Attraction, 852 ;
Politics : The Home Rule Bill, 856 ; Towage of a Boat, 864 ;

....Royal Institution Discourse on Age of the Sun's Heat, 865 ;

Jubilee of the Electric Telegraph, 869 ; Work on the Partition
of Space, 873 ; Doings at Netherhall, 876 ; The B.A. of 1888,
878 ; Presidential Address to the Institution of Electrical
Engineers, 88 1 ; The Paris Electrical Congress and other

Activities, 886 ; The Niagara Commission, 894 ; President of
the Royal Society, 897                                         840-904

                    CHAPTER XXII

                                          THE PEERAGE

Offer of a Peerage, 905 ; The Name " Kelvin," 907 ; Politics,

       911; Takes his Seat in the House of Lords, 913; Arms of
       Lord Kelvin, 914 ; Lecture on Navigation, 916 ; Death of

viii LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                             PACES

.......Professor James Thomson, 918; Helmholtz Medallist, 922;

       Geological Echoes, 923 ; Account of a Visit to Netherhall, 926 ;
       Death of von Helmholtz, 938; Geology, 941; The Popular
       Lectures, 946 ; Centenary of the Institut of France, 947 ;
       Illness, 953 ; Rontgen Rays, 954 ; The Petroleum Committee,
962 905-963

                    CHAPTER XXIII

                    THE JUBILEE : RETIREMENT

The Jubilee of Lord Kelvin, 964 ; The Conversazione, 965 ;
.......Presentation of Addresses, 967 ; Conferring of Degrees, 975 ;
ion                                                                          964-1011
Mascart's Address, 979 ; The Corporation Banquet, 98 1 ;
Account of the Ceremonies, 988 ; White's Instrument Factory,
994 ; Royal Institution Discourse on Contact Electricity of
Metals, 996 ; The Victoria Institute Address, 997 ; Meeting in
Toronto, 1897, 1001 ; Death of Principal Caird, 1006 ; The

Marconi Company, 1006 ; Visit to Rome, 1009 ; Retirement,

                    CHAPTER XXIV

         THE GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY

Hopes of a Molecular Theory of Matter, 1012; "Failure," 1013;
      A noble Ambition, 1013; Early Work, 1015; Suggestion that

Heat and Light are Electric, 1018; Electricity an essential

Quality of Matter, 1020 ; Maxwell's Electromagnetic Theory of

Light,   1021 ;  ;  T"hoSmtespos n'tsowVaridesws,a     1023;    The Vortex - Atom
Theory,    1027                                        Kinetic  Theory of Matter,"

1032; The Philadelphia Lecture, 1035; The Baltimore Lectures,

1035 ; 6.A. Discussion on Electromagnetic Matters, 1040 ;
Presidential Address to the I.E.E., 1899, 1043 ; Abandonment

of the Vortex-Atom Theory, 1046 ; The Molecular Constitution

oRfonMtgaetnterR, ay1s,05010;61H;er"tz'FsailuWroer,"k  on Electric Waves,    1056 ;
                                                       1072 ; The Electron,  1074 ;

Sir Joseph Larmor's Theory, 1075 ; Further Work, 1076 ; Com

pletion of the Baltimore Lectures, 1080                         . . 1012-1085

                      CONTENTS                                        ix

                      CHAPTER XXV

                      VIEWS AND OPINIONS

                                                                                                                                                       FACES

Religions Beliefs, 1086 ; Views on Life, 1092 ; Sir Edward Fry's

Reminiscences of Visits to Netherhall, 1095 ; The Henslow

Lectures, 1097; Spiritualism, 1104; Vivisection, 1105; Aversion
                                    Humour, mo; Love of Music,
no;from Controversy,    1108; His
                                    1117; Dr. Hutchison's Reminis
I Precision           in Language,

cences, 1 121; Metaphysics, 1124; Politics, 1128; On University

Organization, 1131 ; Changes in the Tripos, 1132; On Mathe

matics, 1133; Newton and Kelvin, 1145           .     . 1086-1146

                      CHAPTER XXVI

                      THE CLOSING YEARS

Phosphorescence, 1147; The End of the Century, 1150; Royal

Institution Discourse on Clouds over Dynamical Theory, 1152;

Mastership of the Cloth workers' Company, 1154; Firm of Kelvin
and James White, Ltd., 1155 ; The James Watt Oration, 1158 ;
B.A. at Glasgow, 1160; Death of Tail, 1163; Visit to United

States, 1164; Privy Counsellor, 1169; Order of Merit, 1170;

Death of Stokes, 1173; Honorary Degrees at London University,

1175; and at the University of Wales, 1179; Chancellor of Glas

gow University, 1181 ; Eightieth Birthday, 1181 ; B.A. at Cam

bridge, 1182 ; Undergoes an Operation, 1187 ; Unveils Faraday

Memorial, 1 191 ; Presidency of Institution of Electrical Engineers,
1195; B.A. at Leicester, 1200; Illness of Lady Kelvin, 1202;

Letters to Mascart, 1204; Last Illness and Death, 1208;

Funeral in Westminster Abbey, 1209 . . . 1147-1213
......B.--Part I. Printed Books
                      APPENDICES
........C.--List of Patents . . . . .
A. -- List of Distinctions, Academic and other     .  .            .1215

Part II. Scientific Communications and Addresses      ,                  1223
                                                      .
                                                                   . 1225

                                                                   .1275

INDEX                                                                 1279


       LIST OF PLATES

PLATE                                                       PACK PACE
............IX. Lord Kelvin and his Compass.
         T. and R. Annan and Sons Photogravure by
                                  . . Frontispiece

X. Sir William Thomson's Yacht Lalla Rookh .                .616

XI. Netherhall, Largs.  From photograph by Stewart, of
           Largs
                                                            649

XII. Lord Kelvin's Lecture-Room in the University of

       Glasgow                                              735

.....XIII. Sir William Thomson.From photograph by Miss
             Agnes G. King, 1888
                                     ..        . .880

XIV. Lord Kelvin visiting the Kananaskis Falls, N.W.

             Canada, 1897. From photograph by Prof. Edgar

       M. Crookshank                                        1003

XV. Lord Kelvin's Last Lecture, 1899 . . . ion

XVI.   Lord and Lady Kelvin in their house at Eaton Place,

       1906. Photogravure     by Emery Walker from
       photograph by Russell
                                 . . . .1188

                              XI


         CHAPTER XV

THE LALLA ROOKH, THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION, AND
                                THE HOOPER

BY the purchase of the Lalla Rookh, a smart sailing-

yacht of 126 tons, Sir William Thomson became
acquainted with navigation in a new phase. All

his life he had been fond of sailing ; but by the

possession of this craft he acquired at first hand a

most intimate knowledge of seamanship and of its

needs. For many years the cruises of the Lalla

Rookh occupied a considerable part of the six

months between the sessions of the University.

When the end of October 1870 compelled him to lay

her up in the Gareloch for the winter, he left her

with regret. He looked keenly forward to the first

of May when he should be able to join his ship. He

was now planning an expedition to the Canaries, to

be followed by an extensive cruise in the Hebrides

with a party of scientific friends in the coming

autumn, and it became necessary to fit out the yacht

with furniture and bedding. To this end he took

counsel with Mrs. Tait, resulting in a lively and
characteristic correspondence :--
VOL. II
         585                       K

586        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                    CHAP.

                                    GLASGOW COLLEGE, March 29, 1871.

DEAR MRS. TAIT --The question, cotton or linen, for

the Lalla Rookh's berths has, after anxious consideration

and consultation with naval experts, been decided in

favour of linen. The cotton fabric seems to be too hygro-

metric to be suitable for sea-going places.

    Will Glasgow do as well as Belfast for getting such a

number (or area) as is required ?
     The area for mattress is approximately rectangular,

and 3 ft. 9 i. by 7 ft. In fixing on the size of sheet I
would wish to avoid an error which seems to have

originated in the Levant prior to 725 B.C. (Isaiah xxviii.
v. 20, second clause * of the v.), and which is still deplor

ably prevalent at sea.

     I think I ought to have in all 1 2 pr., and therefore (as

the acct. enclosed shows 4 pr. to be already provided) 8 pr.,
with the proper proportion of pillow slips, would be enough.

The other things which I want are, so far as I can judge :

5 dozen towels, equal and similar to those provided by
you for the N.P.L. [Natural Philosophy Laboratory.]
6 large bath sheets of similar material. Sometimes

bath sheets are made thicker (apparently with the idea

of maintaining a constant proportion of thickness to

length     or breadth), which is a mistake.       damask,"  I

       3^  dozen damask table napkins --" double

understand from T', has been decided.
     10 tablecloths. I forgot to measure the table yester

day when I was at Greenock to see the L. R., now fresh

coppered and almost ready to be launched, but the

dimensions will be sent to you by Captain Flarty. I
think the best quality of damask should be taken for the

tablecloths, as drops from the skylight, accidents through

want of steadiness of platform, etc., etc., require the

strongest resistance against shabbiness of appearance

that the material can give.

     I should also have a proportionate quantity of glass

    1 [The verse in question runs -- " For the bed is shorter than that a man

can stretch himself on it ; and the covering narrower than that he can wrap
himself in it."]

xv             THE "LALLA ROOKH "                               587

towels, cook's cloths, and dusters, which, with what I have

already, should be enough to serve for several weeks away

from port.

    Whatever of the above is to be had best from Belfast,

will you order it for me ? For the rest, any hints you

can give will be gratefully received.

     I am not unconscious (but as much as possible the
reverse) that I am asking a very great benefit, and taking
advantage to the utmost of the promise you gave me to
help me, when I write so troublesome a list of wants.

But you must allow me absolutely to restrict your kind

ness to ordering the things for me, and directing that the

hemming and marking be done by the people who supply

them, and who certainly will, if required, find persons

ready to undertake those works.

    The Committee on Ships of War will continue its
sittings during May, and I am afraid much of June,

partly in London and partly at sea with the Channel
Fleet. So I must give up Teneriffe for this year, which
I do with great regret. Will you tell Guthrie * that I

hope for another visit from him before May, as we got

scarcely anything of the books done last time, there was

so much time wasted on tops, etc. Could he not come

from Ap. 1 8 to 27, which would include an opening

cruise of the L. R. to Arran, Friday till Monday ?-- Yours

always truly,                    WILLIAM THOMSON.

    The project of an autumn cruise with a party
of scientific friends is set out in a letter to Helm-

holtz, terminated by a postscript from Professor

Tait:--

    DEAR                                GLASGOW COLLEGE, March  30/71.
                                                                to come
            HELMHOLTZ -- I hope you will be able

to the meeting of the British Association at Edinburgh

in the first week of August. After it is over (and I wish
it were over now, as I have the misfortune to be president

            1 Peter Guthrie Tait, his friend and colleague.

588     LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                      CHAP.

elect) I want you to come and have a cruise for a few
weeks among the Hebrides and West Highlands in a
schooner of 128 X io6 grammes, which will be my only
summer quarters besides the new College here. I hope
Tait will come too, but he has a great aversion to being
afloat, and without the inducement of your company he

would scarcely be persuadable. I would also ask Clerk

Maxwell and Huxley and Tyndall, which would reach
nearly to the capacity of the Lalla Rookh. Will you let

me have a line when your plans are fixed ?

     Many thanks for your last letter. I hope the remaining
anxieties of the campaign in respect to your son soon
ceased, and that he has got through unhurt. I say nothing

just now in reply to what you said about the sympathies

of England.-- Believe me, yours always truly,
                                              WILLIAM THOMSON.

    On the last page of this letter Professor Tait
wrote :--

DEAR PROF. HELMHOLTZ --As Thomson has sent

this through me, doubtless for some great moral purpose,
I beg to add that I have no aversion to being afloat, but

that I   prefer to spend my  fgeowlf.h--oliYdoauysrs  in active  physical
        such as the game of                           truly,
work,

                                                      P. G. TAIT.

                                GLASGOW COLLEGE, April 9, 1871.

DEAR MRS. TAIT -- Many thanks for your kind letter.

I do not know the dimensions of the pillows, and could

not well get them till Wednesday, as they are in store at

Gourock. I think it would be safe to make the pillow

slips of the same size as for land pillows, which, I sup

pose, are something less than 3 ft. 9 in. long. If you

think so you might let them be made accordingly. But
in any case I shall have the dimensions of the actual

pillows despatched by post from Gourock, addressed to

you, on Wednesday. For the sheets I think                        "Z\
                                                                               a
                                                                 yards

might be rather short for Guthrie when he comes on

xv        THE "LALLA ROOKH "                        589

cruise with me. At sea it is desirable to have rather

more of the sheet to turn over at the top than in beds

less exposed to acceleration. Three yards would be a
safe length. Two yards will be a very good breadth,

sufficient even for sleeping through several tacks.

     I am very sorry to hear that Guthrie has been so ill.
I cannot think it was good for him to allow Dr. Crum

Brown to pull out a tooth. We regretted very much his
not being here to meet Maxwell, Joule, etc.

     Do not let him shirk the August cruise with Helm-
holtz, Huxley, Tyndall, and Maxwell, who I hope will all

come.

    If the boat race is to be at all, it is right that Cam

bridge should win, and they seem to have pulled splendidly-

last time. [April I, 1871.]
     I forgot that you had asked about the tablecloths. I

am in a difficulty about them. I understood from

Guthrie that the breadth determined the length, each

being made one and indivisible in certain absolutely

fixed proportions. I think the length 5 f. 4 i. must be
when the table is at its shortest. But it is capable of

prolongation, and I believe about 4 can sit on each side.
The breadth you have is accurate. I
                                     shall write  to you on
Tuesday giving the maximum length.                me, yours
                                     -- Believe

very sincerely,                      W. THOMSON.

                 WESTERN CLUB, GLASGOW,

                 Tuesday evening [April 1 1].

    DEAR         TAIT -- The L. R. table            find, of
          MRS.   is
                                               is,

                                             I
invariable length, and the values of the constants which

you have are correct. Those of the T-cloths which you

proposed are therefore no doubt perfectly right.

    The pillow-slip question more difficult. An expert

who has been employed on board told me that the

pillows are presumably of the full breadths of the berths.

If so there will be several different sizes. Captain Flarty

will send you the length and breadth of each from Gourock

as soon as possible, by to-morrow evening's post, hope.
                 I
                                        I
    I  write in the greatest haste, as am just going to sit

590           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                CHAP.

(in the chair) at a meeting to promote united-non-sectarian-
compulsory education on the same model as the Irish
national education, which Roman Catholics, Presbyterians,
and Church-people would not give fair play to in Ireland.

    The gathering referred to was a great public
meeting in the City Hall. From Sir William's

speech, as chairman, as reported in the Glasgow

Herald, the following extracts are taken. After

reading apologies for absence from influential
representatives of the Free Church and the United

Presbyterian Church, he said :--

He believed the feeling was very strong in these Churches

generally in favour of the views to be advocated that night.
What the meeting really desired was something very much

analogous to that which had been given to England in the bill

for national education which had now become law in that part

of the United Kingdom. There were certain blots, undoubtedly,
in the Scottish Education Bill, for what reason he knew not. It

seemed to be supposed that Scotland required a more denomina

tional, a more sectarian system of education than England
No mistake could be greater than this. Scotland, of all

countries in Christendom, was the one most prepared, most
ready to accept a united non - sectarian national system of

education. Scotland was prepared to make this a thoroughly

religious system. We were not here in Scotland to have a god

less education. It would not be a godless education that would

be supported by the Free Church, the United Presbyterian

Church, and by the Established Church for the people of Scotland.

What was desired was, in the first place, education in these

elements of knowledge and art which were necessary for any

religious education whatever. What was desired was to make

religious education possible in the first place by the universal

teaching of the arts of reading and writing, and to make this

part of the national education compulsory. It seemed that

opinion   in  England was strongly divided  w"ith     reference  to the
question   "  compulsory or non-compulsory       ;  but, on the   other

hand, it seemed that in Scotland there was a very strong feeling

indeed among the people that compulsory education was desir

able. If the people of Scotland desired compulsory education,

xv             THE "LALLA ROOKH "                                             591

he felt very confident indeed that they had only to say so, and

it would be provided for them by Parliament. It was quite
clear, however, that if education was to be compulsory, the
national system of education in connection with which com

pulsory statutes were founded must be unsectarian. There was

one other point upon which Scotland desired something different

from that which had ever been provided in England, and that
was a degree of elasticity in the national system, in virtue of

which it should not be confined merely to reading, writing, and

arithmetic. Scotland did not desire schools from which the use

of the globes should be excluded. A school without maps
would not be satisfactory in any parish of Scotland, nor would a

school be satisfactory without music.

     Later, in reference to one of the motions proposed, he said :
The motion before the house did not propose to exclude the
Bible from the schools. The Bible was truly and avowedly

nmaottioionnal,--anwdhichhe  desired to  ask  the meeting to  say             that the
                             demanded      a  provision that  no              religious

catechism, or  formulary     which       isinditshtiencstcivheoolsof--adnidy  particular
denomination,  should be      taught                                          not apply

to the Bible.
    At the conclusion the chairman said he wished to call

attention to the danger that hung over Scotland at present.

Was Scotland, he asked, to be made the stepping-stone from
the system of mild denominationalism in England, to utter and

destructive denominationalism in Ireland ? Unless they resisted

strenuously the efforts to carry the denominationalism proposed
in this bill, Scotland would bitterly rue her part in such a

matter.

    DEAR MRS. TAIT                            ^About April 23'

The L. R., unfortunately, was not ready for my proposed
cruise at this time owing to the weather, which made

communication with the shore at Gourock difficult. I
trust she will be ready by Friday, but ready or not I sail
on Friday southwards, and hope the E. wind will not

stop till I reach Land's End. If the linen is not ready

to cross from Belfast on Thursday it might come leisurely
to the Admiralty, where I shall be on Wed. week, ditto

fortnight, do. etc.

    Excuse great haste, and believe me, yours always

truly,                                        W. THOMSON.

592 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.
         .] --Tell Guthrie I have no time to answer his

letter to-day as I am overdue to go out to the Rouken.

    On May 5 he was at the Admiralty, but left
that evening for Plymouth to sail in Plymouth

Sound.

                                    L. /?., DARTMOUTH, May 8 [1871].

DEAR MRS. TAIT -- Since writing the above I have

arrived in London. I made my first attempt to get a

quiet forenoon of work yesterday in the L. R. (it being
now Tuesday the 9th) which, you may tell Guthrie, was
very promising, although it only resulted in the miserable
fiasco of twelve letters all " business," and of the most

trivial but inevitable kind. However, I hope for better

things. The only interruption in the course of three

hours was a great trawler fouling me. The cutter and

gig had both gone to shore, one for water and the other

to land J. T. B. and his father, who went to take a walk
and leave me quiet. The captain, steward, and cook

were shoving her (the trawler) off when I came on deck

on hearing the noise, and soon after we got her clear.

" I hope there's nothing broke, sir ? " " No " (replied
Captain F.). " I am glad to hear
                                                               sir," were the last
                                                         it,
words from the trawler.
                                                                 J.
                                        I J. if I  intended to write and give

you history of the voyage from the Clyde to Penzance,
I
                                                                     T. B. and
            a

                         it

                                     a
and how thoroughly enjoyed                         I it  was by

David King, the latter faintly denying that he would

have enjoyed still more she had been on the slip at

Greenock all the time.                           T. B. was more reticent, but

believe felt as deeply.                          should also,  if   had achieved
                                                                 I

my project of writing to you on board, have given you

many details of trip to the Eddystone and voyage
                                                                     a
from Plymouth to Dartmouth against strong east wind.                   is

D. K. being replaced by T. B.'s father. The latter
                                        J.

remarked that the best thing about yachting was going

on shore, an opinion in which                            by no means concur.

But all such matters rapidly lose importance, and the
" log " that
              is  not written during the voyage                            never

xv         THE "LALLA ROOKH "                                                                         593

written at all. The one unforgettable thing is the linen
and the marking of the kitchen towels, than which

nothing could be better. I never attributed the marking

to Guthrie, but only the address on the parcel from

Edinburgh.
    Your most kind letter about the B.A. reached me

here (London to-day).         The five reasons are, each

separately, irresistible.     I shall certainly stay at 17

Drummond Place if I am able. I shall write as soon as

I know. Tell Guthrie I am here (London) three days
of every week 1 (address Athenaeum Club, Pall Mall).
Therefore he may give high praise to the L. R. if I get,

as I intend, two good working days weekly. Tell him

also that I met Dr. Lyon Playfair just now, who told me

that he had quite lately seen Dr. N. Arnott, and that the

latter intends to give £1000 to each of the Scotch Univ"*,
but that he has taken a crick, and though Mrs. N. A. had

strongly urged Ed. as well as Glasgow (on account

of the work done in the P. L" there) he was stiff about

beginning with Glasgow for a trial. He remarked that
I had not called the last time I was in London. I hope
Guthrie's cold is better. Tell him that a good cruise in

the L. R. will be requisite to brace him against these

recurring attacks, which seem to be partially (if not
wholly) due to overdoing the links. Will you not bring

him with you to London when you come ? Even that
would do him good, and if you would both come from a

Friday till Wednesday to the L. R. the cure would be

complete.

    DEAR   MRS.   Monday Morning [May 15, 1871]
                                  TRAIN, WEYMOUTH TO LONDON.

                 TAIT -- On receiving your most kind
letter I wrote immediately to my sister * to ask if I might

accept your invitation. I do not mean that I put it

exactly in that way, but I pointed out forcibly how much

IIJose1p(hFoWurhitdwaoyrsth'tshisordwneaenkce.)to---daWy edfo.,r  Admiral Halstead's    fleet,  and   Sir
                                                                  Thurs., Frid. (from  12 till  5 in  the

Admiralty, except when it is  to 5 on account of extra tediousness of

witnesses, or 9 till 6 Shoeburyness expedition as last week).
    1 [Physical Laboratory.]  * [Mrs. King, then resident in Edinburgh,]

594  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

better she would be without me, and I said that you had
very kindly invited me to stay at 1 7 D. P. [Drummond
Place]. I received her answer just before setting out on
a short tour on the Continent, from which I am now
returning, and which has prevented me from earlier

writing to you. I think that as I promised last Septem

ber to stay with her, and she has Dr. Gladstone only,

and says she would be greatly disappointed if I did not

come, I am not free to do otherwise. I could easily
prove this is a great advantage to you and Guthrie, but
your letter disarms me, and I can only say that unless it
were to be very different from all my visits to Greenhill
Gardens and previous ones to D. P., it would have been
one of the few pleasures that remain pleasures to me, to
have the prospect of being at D. P. during the impending
meeting.

    Often when kept in Glasgow by affairs or by
his laboratory work, Sir William Thomson would
retreat for the week-ends to his yacht to gain

quiet and rest. If he had no relations or friends

on board he would take his secretary with him,
that he might get on with work. Rising early he
would take a plunge, before breakfast, in the sea,

swimming round the yacht, and in spite of his lame
leg climb with agility on board by the rope. When

there were no observations or soundings to take he

would sit for hours with green book and pencil in

hand working at calculations and meditating over
his problems ; or he would pace the deck smoking
a quiet cigar. Often he would work on far into the
night. He was a daring navigator, and would sail

far into the season when other yachts were laid

up, sometimes in darkness and in severe weather.

Once when he was sailing in the teeth of a gale

xv         THE " LALLA ROOKH "          595

his assistant John Tatlock, who often was with him
as amanuensis, heard Captain Flarty saying half-
aloud in Sir William's presence : " You will not
rest till you have your boat at the bottom." He
took no notice. He never seemed to tire. With

all the sailors he was extremely popular ; their only

grievance was that he would sometimes pop up on
deck in the small hours of the morning to make

sure that the watch was at his post and awake. In
all the operations of sailing he took the keenest

interest, and became a most expert navigator.

Happy though he was to be thus alone, he was
still happier if he could secure for a few days' cruise
his brother or some member of their related families,

nephews or nieces, many of whom retain the most
joyous recollections of the days spent on board the
Lalla Rookh.

    Two short extracts from letters to Miss Jessie
Crum show the use he made of his yacht :--

     May   15. -- Train, Wey mouth to London. Monday morn

ing. -- I  received your letter on Friday afternoon just as

I was leaving the Admiralty, and read it in the train on

my way to Southampton to the L. R.

    ...May1j, --Wedy. Athenceum. -- . . . Soon after daybreak
(last) Saturday I sailed for Cherbourg  to Portland

on Sunday morning. Lord Dufferin is ordered by the

Queen to Balmoral for 3 weeks, and the Committee is
therefore adjourned until after the roth of June. I sail
for Lisbon to-night.

    From Lisbon he sent Miss Crum a long letter

about his doings there. The Lalla Rookh had

596 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAF.

sailed from Portland to the bar of Lisbon in 6 days

23 hours. On his return he wrote to Helmholtz :--

                     THE ATHEN/EUM, June 14, 1871.

    MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ-- I have only this morning,

on returning to London from a cruise to Lisbon and
back in the Lalla Rookh, received your letter of the i ith

May. I am very       sorry you    will  Endoint bbuerghab--le    to  be at
the meeting of the   Association                               and   many
                                    in

others will be sorry also. But I am glad that you will

come and sail with me in the West Highlands, and I shall

take care to have the Lalla Rookh in a convenient position

(probably in the Clyde or possibly Oban), at whatever
time suits you. I asked Huxley and Tyndall to come

for a cruise immediately after the meeting, but, unfortun

ately, neither of them could accept, and I shall therefore

most probably remain chiefly at the College in Glasgow

after the meeting until your arrival. You must arrange

to spend as much as possible of your holiday in Scotland,
and if you wish to mix a little work with it as you did

before in Arran, you will find writing not impossible in

the Lalla Rookh.

on  I congratulate   you and   Mme- Helmholtz    m--osBt elsieinvceermeley,
    the safe return  of your  son from the war.

yours very truly,                 WILLIAM THOMSON.

    On June 24th he writes from the India Office,
where he has been attending a meeting of the
Examiners for the India Telegraph Service, telling
of the progress of his Admiralty work. He is just
going down to Portsmouth with William Froude to
sail in the Lalla Rookh to Torquay. He has been

staying in London with Dr. Gladstone ; * he has

also given a party, of which he tells Miss Crum,

    1 Dr. John Hall Gladstone, F.R.S., who had married the eldest daughter
of Dr. David King.

xv      THE "LALLA ROOKH "                               597

bringing together several of his old comrades in the
C.U.M.S. :--

    Blow, and Shedden and his wife completed the

number, six in all. Pollock played the hautboy, Blow

accompanied on the piano, and Blow played on the

violin, unaccompanied. He did not play very much, as

he had  been playing in     the  Crystal  Palace (last day of
Handel  Festival) " Israel   in  Egypt,"  and was tired, and

only got up to London for 7.30 dinner. I had succeeded

in getting the room James Bottomley recommended (as

the one in which his chemical monthly dinners had taken
                                           It was
place) and all   went    off very well.               a    strange
reunion, like a  return    from the other   world        Shedden,
                                                   --

Blow, Pollock, and myself, who had not been all together

since the end of 1846, when Pollock, then a new-comer to

Cambridge, quickly began to be intimate with Blow,

Shedden, and me, just before Blow and Shedden were

leaving Cambridge. I have often looked forward to

such a reunion merely as an occasion when the music

would have been a happy enjoyment. We had a visit

from Blow at the Langham Hotel, but could not get any
opportunity for music. It can never again be what it

was, and it is too full of sadness for the present.

    On July 1, he writes from Cowes that in the

previous week he had sailed on Monday to Torquay,
thence up to Southampton. On Wednesday he
had run up to London to stay the night with
Pollock at Hampstead. Lord and Lady Dufferin
have come down to Cowes to yacht with him. " I

have," he adds, " however, really found the L. R.

the quietest and best place attainable for work."

Work meant here the preparation of his Inaugural
Address as President of the British Association, to

be held on August 2nd, at Edinburgh.

598                            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                           CHAP.

    To his                     brother-in-law, Alexander Crum, he
wrote :--                             L. R., HURST ROAD, SOLENT, July 11.

   My B. A. address destroys everything now. I cannot

write a word of but effectually prevents me from
1
                         1

                                  it,
                                          it

                                                                               .
                                                                                         .

                                                                                  a
                                                                                         is
writing or doing anything else. . . . Helmholtz coming

from Germany for the sole purpose of cruise about the

  2th or 5th [of August]. . Shedden and his wife,
W. Young, and a young man (Roberts) from the Nautical

Almanac office, who has been calculating tides for me (as

Brit. Ass. Committee) for four or five years, came down

with me on Saturday for few days' cruise.
                8. -- Tuesday         a  --(Atherueu1n).
   July     if 1                        a                 .  .  . landed at

Portsmouth this morning on my way to London.

        have made some slight beginnings of actual writing
I
   Ifor the Address, and have great mass of matter, greater

       I
than shall find space for, to bring in. My difficulty

will be to get proper arrangement and condensation, and

   feel as                     must necessarily be a very unsatisfactory
                               it
thing at best.                    .I  had George King with me from Satur

day till to-day. . . George began the day by reading

a  number of chapters of 1st Corinthians, and spent                                          a

great part of the remainder in writing for me,1 towards

the Address.                   I  have taken some of the proceeds to the

printers to-day, and hope to give some more instalments

this week.II

        dine with Huxley alone to-day to talk over Asso
ciation and other matters for the sake chiefly of my
Address.

        shall be here daily till Saturday, but am staying at
Pollock's, Hampstead. On Sat. go to the L. R. for
                                           I

quiet.

    Sir William Thomson's Presidency of the British
Association, at Edinburgh, on August 2, 1871, was

        [Mr. George King remembers how Sir William paced up and down the
deck, dictating few words at intervals, very slowly, making many corrections,
while the yacht lay becalmed off Bournemouth,]
   1
                            a

xv  THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION  599

an event of great importance. His Address was

awaited with expectancy, for he was to be introduced
by none other than Huxley, with whom he had

crossed swords with knightly courtesy indeed, but
with deadly earnest, in the matter of Geological
Time ; and he was known to be opposed to some
of the developments of the doctrines of Evolution

that for a decade had been revolutionising men's
minds as to the origin of things. Nor were the
expectations of the assembled men of science dis
appointed ; for the Address, though somewhat
lengthy and discursive, proved of surpassing inter
est. The assembly was a brilliant one. Huxley,
the retiring President, was accompanied on the
platform by the Emperor Dom Pedro of Brazil, and
by a crowd of most distinguished savants, British
and foreign, also by a number of the leading Pro
fessors of the Scottish Universities. On rising to
vacate the chair, he expressed cordial thanks to the

officers and members for the support given to him,
and congratulated the Association on the good work
accomplished during the past year. Then turning
toward the President-elect, he introduced him with

exquisite courtesy in the words already quoted on

p. 550 above.

    Sir William Thomson's address began with a
reference to the origin of the British Association
and the aims of its founders, in particular Brewster
and Herschel, the latter of whom had passed away
but two months before. He also referred to the

recent death of De Morgan ; to the work of the

600  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Meteorological Observatory at Kew since its estab
lishment by the Association in 1842; and to the
need of national laboratories for research. Our
Government, he declared, fatally neglected the
advancement of science. Glancing at the Reports
on different branches of science, which had formed

a conspicuous feature of the Association's past
work, he particularised Cayley's Report of 1857
on Theoretical Dynamics, and Sabine's Report of
1838 on Terrestrial Magnetism, as having been
of utmost service to scientific men, as well as of
practical utility. He suggested the establishment
of a British Year-book of Science as a need of the
time. Then, turning to recent advances in par
ticular branches, he pointed out that many of them
owed their origin to protracted drudgery. " Accu
rate and minute measurement," he said, "seems to

the non-scientific imagination a less lofty and dig
nified work than looking for something new. But
nearly all the grandest discoveries of science have
been but the rewards of accurate measurement and

patient, long-continued labour in the minute sifting
of numerical results." He instanced, as cases in

point, the discovery of the theory of gravitation by
Newton, that of specific inductive capacity by Fara
day, that of thermodynamic law by Joule, and that
of the continuity of the gaseous and liquid states
by Andrews. Then he turned to the labours of
Gauss and Weber, who had founded the absolute

system of measurement of magnetism and electricity,
and Weber's resulting discovery that the ratio of

xv           THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION     601

the electromagnetic and electrostatic units is a

velocity. Maxwell he eulogised for his discovery

that this velocity is physically related to the velocity
of light. This led him to reflect how much science,

even in its most lofty speculations, gains in return

for benefits conferred by its application to promote
the social and material welfare of man. " Those,"
he declared, " who perilled and lost their money in

the original Atlantic Telegraph were impelled and

supported by a sense of the grandeur of their enter

prise, and of the world-wide benefits which must

flow from its success ; they were at the same time

not unmoved by the beauty of the scientific prob

lem directly presented to them ; but they little

thought that it was to be through their work that

the scientific world was to be instructed in a long-

neglected and discredited fundamental discovery of

Faraday's." Next, dealing with the kinetic theory

of gases, which he described as the greatest achieve

ment yet made in the molecular theory of matter,

he particularly praised Clausius for having thus

given the foundation for estimates of the absolute

dimensions of atoms, and of their rates of diffusion.

Maxwell had completed the dynamical explanation

of the known properties of gases by bringing in
viscosity and thermal conductivity. No such com

prehensive molecular theory had ever been imagined

before the nineteenth century ; but Sir William

Thomson was not satisfied. Definite and complete

as it seemed, it was yet but a part of a still more

comprehensive theory in which all physical science
    VOL. II
                                      C

602  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

would be represented with every property of matter
shown in dynamical relation to the whole. But

there could be no permanent satisfaction to the

mind in explaining heat, light, elasticity, diffusion,
electricity, and magnetism by statistics of great
numbers of atoms, if all the while the properties of
the atom itself are assumed. " When the theory, of
which we have the first instalment in Clausius' and

Maxwell's work, is complete, we are but brought

face to face with a superlatively grand question,
What is the inner mechanism of the atom ? " This

at once led to a sketch of the arguments by which
he himself, in independence of Loschmidt and of

Johnstone Stoney, had arrived at ideas about the size
of atoms. He scorned to enter into any questions
of priority in this affair. " Questions of personal
priority, however interesting they may be to the
persons concerned, sink into insignificance in the
prospects of any gain into the secrets of nature."
The atom must henceforth not be regarded as a

 mystic point endowed with inertia and attraction,

nor as infinitely small and infinitely hard. It must

 be regarded as " a piece of matter with shape,
 motion, and laws of action, intelligible subjects of
 scientific investigation." The prismatic analysis of
 light here came in to reveal new facts as to atomic
 constitution. The observational and experimental
 foundations were the discovery by Fraunhofer of the
 coincidence of certain dark solar spectrum lines
 with bright lines in flames ; the rigorous test of
 this by Miller; the identification of the D-lines as

TV  THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION  603

belonging to sodium ; the discovery of Foucault

(see p. 224) that the voltaic arc can emit the
D-rays on its own account and at the same time

absorb them when they come from another quarter ;
the teachings of Stokes (see p. 300) as to the physical
significance of the spectrum lines, and the inherent
isochronism of the vibrations of an atom ; the in

ferences from the dark lines as to the chemistry of the
sun ; the prodigious and wearing toil of Kirchhoff,
and of Angstrom, of Pliicker, and of Hittorf, in
preparing spectrum maps and in identification of
spectra under various physical conditions. The
chemists, following Bunsen, discovered new metals ;

biologists applied spectrum analysis to animal and
vegetable substances ; and the astronomers, led by
Huggins, carried spectroscopic research to the stars
and comets. Well might the lecturer point out
that " scientific wealth tends to accumulation accord

ing to the law of compound interest." Solar and
stellar chemistry had garnered great results. Rarely
before in the history of science had enthusiastic

perseverance, directed by penetrative genius, pro
duced within ten years so brilliant a succession of

discoveries. We were now to have a solar and
stellar physics: for Miller, Huggins, and Max

well had shown that the spectroscope afforded a
means of measuring the relative velocity with which

a star approaches to or recedes from the earth, and
had found that not one of them had so great a
velocity as 315 kilometres per second to or from
the earth, a most momentous result in respect to

604  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAF.

cosmical dynamics. Then came a brief review of
the nebular hypothesis of the solar system -- a
hypothesis invented before the discovery of thermo
dynamics, otherwise the nebulae would not have
been supposed to be fiery. Helmholtz's supposi
tion of 1854, that mutual gravitation between the
parts of the original nebula might have generated
the heat of the sun, had been extended by his own

further suggestion that gravitation might account
for all the heat, light, and motions in the universe ;
while recent spectroscopic observation had shown
that Tail's theory of comets, in which the head of
the comet is regarded as a group of meteoric stones,
furnished at least a probable explanation of that
feature of their constitution. Astronomy and
cosmical physics, therefore, well illustrated the truth
that the essence of science consists in inferring,

from phenomena which have come under actual
observation, the conditions that were antecedent,

and in anticipating future evolutions. Even
naturalists of the present day were not appalled
or paralysed by the prodigious difficulties of acting
up to this ideal. They were now struggling, boldly
and laboriously, to pass out of the mere " Natural
History stage," and to bring Zoology within the
range of Natural Philosophy. But science brought
a vast mass of inductive evidence against the
hypothesis of spontaneous generation, to confute
the idea that dead matter might have run together
or crystallized or fermented into organic cells or
germs or protoplasm. " Careful enough scrutiny

xv  THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION  605

 has in every case up to the present day discovered
 life as antecedent to life. Dead matter cannot
 become living without coming under the influence

 of matter previously alive." " This," said Sir
 William, " seems to me as sure a teaching of
 science as the law of gravitation." " I confess to

 being deeply impressed by the evidence put before

us by Professor Huxley ; and I am ready to adopt,
as an article of scientific faith, true through all
space and through all time, that life proceeds from
life, and from nothing but life." The passage

which followed startled even the most advanced
thinkers present. " How, then, did life originate
on the Earth ? Tracing the physical history of the
 Earth backwards on strict dynamical principles, we

are brought to a red-hot melted globe on which no
life could exist. Hence, when the Earth was first
fit for life there was no living thing on it. There
were rocks, solid and disintegrated, water, air all
round, warmed and illuminated by a brilliant sun,
ready to become a garden. Did grass and trees
and flowers spring into existence, in all the fulness
of ripe beauty, by a fiat of Creative Power ? or did
vegetation, growing up from seed sown, spread and
multiply over the whole Earth ? Science is bound,
by the everlasting law of honour, to face fearlessly
every problem which can fairly be presented to it.

If a probable solution, consistent with the ordinary

course of nature, can be found, we must not invoke
an abnormal act of Creative Power. . . . When a

volcanic island springs up from the sea, and after a

606  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

few years is found clothed with vegetation, we do
not hesitate to assume that seed has been wafted to

it through the air, or floated to it on rafts. Is it
not possible, and, if possible, is it not probable, that
the beginning of vegetable life on the Earth is to be
similarly explained ? Every year thousands, prob
ably millions, of fragments of solid matter fall upon
the Earth. Whence came these fragments ? What
is the previous history of any one of them ? Was
it created in the beginning of time an amorphous
mass ? This idea is so unacceptable that, tacitly or

explicitly, all men discard it. It is often assumed

that all, and it is certain that some, meteoric stones

are fragments which have been broken off from
greater masses and launched free into space. . . .
Should the time when this Earth comes into

collision with another body, comparable in dimen
sions with itself, be when it is clothed as at present
with vegetation, many great and small fragments,
carrying seed and living plants and animals, would
undoubtedly be scattered through space. Hence

and because we all confidently believe that there

are at present, and have been from time im
memorial, many worlds of life besides our own, we

must regard it as probable in the highest degree
that there are countless seed - bearing meteoric

stones moving about through space. If at the

present instant no life existed upon this Earth, one
such stone falling upon it might, by what we blindly
call natural causes, lead to its becoming covered
with vegetation. I am fully conscious of the many

xv  THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION                                                             607

scientific objections which may be urged against

this hypothesis, but I believe them all to be answer

able. . . . The hypothesis that [some]1 life [has
actually] originated on this Earth through moss-

grown fragments from the ruins of another world

may seem wild and visionary ; all I maintain is

that it is not unscientific [and cannot rightly be said

to be impossible]." A brief peroration touched the

then burning question of Evolution versus Design.
" From the Earth stocked with such vegetation as

it could receive meteorically, to the Earth teeming

with all the endless variety of plants and animals

which now inhabit       it,  the step                 prodigious yet,
                                     a
                                         is

                                                              2
                                                                                     ;
according to the doctrine of continuity, most ably

laid before the Association by predecessor in this

chair, Mr. Grove, all creatures now living on earth

have proceeded by orderly evolution from some

such origin." He then quoted from the conclusion

of Darwin's great work on The Origin Species,
                                                         of

                                                                            a

couple of sentences about the numerous forms of
life --plants, birds, insects, worms --different, inter

dependent, yet " all produced by laws acting around
us," and about the " grandeur in this view of life

    The words in brackets were added by Lord Kelvin himself when he
    11

                                  it
                                          is

                                                 a
                                                             ;
                                                                             a

                                                                      if

                                                                                                                         ;:

                                                                              I

                                                                                                               it
reprinted the address in 1894 in vol. ii. of his Popular Lectures and Addresses-
       Professor Huxley, in later  discourse, gently   brushed     aside the                                                 im
portance of Thomson's suggestion   in the following   words     "     think                                                  will

be admitted that the germs brought to us by meteorites,  any, were not ova

of elephants, nor of crocodiles not cocoa-nuts, nor acorns not even eggs of
shell-fish or corals, but only those of the lowest forms of animal and vegetable
life. Therefore, since  proved that from very remote epoch of geological

time the earth has been peopled by a continual succession of the higher
forms of animals and plants, these either must have been created or they have
arisen by evolution. And in respect of certain groups of animals, the well-

established facts of palaeontology leave no rational doubt that they arose by

the latter method."

608  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

with its several powers having been originally
breathed by the Creator into a few forms or into

one, from which endless forms, most beautiful and

most wonderful, have been and are being evolved."

Then he continued : " With the feeling expressed in
these two sentences I most cordially sympathise. I

have omitted two sentences which come between

them, describing briefly the hypothesis of' the origin

of species bynatural selection,' because I have always

felt that this hypothesis does not contain the true

theory of evolution, if evolution there has been, in
biology. Sir John Herschel, in expressing a favour

able judgment on the hypothesis of zoological evo
lution, with, however, some reservation in respect
to the origin of man, objected to the doctrine of
natural selection that it was too like the Laputan
method of making books, and that it did not

sufficiently take into account a continually guiding
and controlling intelligence. This seems to me a
most valuable and instructive criticism. I feel

profoundly convinced that the argument of design
has been greatly too much lost sight of in recent
zoological speculation. Reaction against frivolities
of teleology, such as are to be found, not rarely,
in the notes of learned commentators on Paley's
Natural Theology, has, I believe, had a temporary
effect in turning attention from the solid and irre
fragable argument so well put forward in that
excellent old book. But overpoweringly strong
proofs of intelligent and benevolent design lie

all around us ; and if ever perplexities, whether

xv  THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION  609

metaphysical or scientific, turn us away from them
for a time, they come back upon us with irresistible

force, showing to us, through nature, the influence
of a free will, and teaching us that all living beings
depend on one ever-acting Creator and Ruler."

     Received with great applause, this address evoked

many perplexities in its hearers. It was known
that Sir William did not accept the doctrine of

natural selection ; and many of the orthodox
Scottish clergy, who looked to him for some pro

nouncement, were aghast to find him appealing to
the principle of continuity, and to discover that

he was an evolutionist who, if he put back the
origin of life on this earth to some distant globe or

planet whence it had been meteorically introduced,
would by an equal logical necessity put it back from

such globe or planet to one yet more distant, and so on
ad infinitum ; and they were disposed to regard him
as a greater sinner against the then popular theology
than even Darwin himself. Others seemed to regard
the hypothesis of the meteoric introduction of life as

a huge scientific joke.1 Maxwell made it the subject
of one of his rhyming jeux d1 esprit, which was sung
at the Red Lion dinner. For two successive weeks
Punch poked good-humoured fun at him in verse.
The issue of August 12, 1871, contained a poem by
Tom Taylor, entitled : " The Truth after Thomson,
as versed by a Modern Athenian," a really clever
summary of the address, from which we cull the

following sample :--

                 1 Vide, for example, St. Paul's Magazine, Sept. 1871.

6 io        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                             CHAP.

      But say, whence in those meteors life began,
      From whose collision came the germs of man ?
      Still hangs the veil across the searcher's track,

      We have but thrust the myst'ry one stage back.

      Below the earth the elephant we've found,
      Below him of the tortoise touched the ground ;

      But what the tortoise bears ? Dig as we will,

      Beneath us lies a deep unsounded still :

      Sink we with DARWIN, with ARGYLL aspire,
      Betwixt angelic or ascidian sire,

      Though ne'er so high we soar, or deep we go,
      The infinite's above us and below :
      Beyond the creeds and fancies of the hour,
      Looms, fixed and awful, A Creative Power. ·

    In several successive years at the Association
meetings Sir William reiterated his view. At

Plymouth in 1877, when a certain meteorite (or

model of    was shown, he was keen to explain
a

       it
           if it it)

                      a

                     if

                                          it
how, though the stone presented marks of fusion

on the surface, the interior might have remained

quite cool, so that there had been in some deep

crevice of  bit of moss would not have been

burned; or there had been lurking there Colorado   I
beetle might have survived to become the father
of numerous progeny. Whereupon the witty Dr.           !
Samuel Haughton remarked that he would not
                                                         a
much mind the father-beetle coming in the crevice

of meteoric stone only had had the foresight

to leave the old mother beetle at home

   The following letter of Feb. n, 1882, shows that

Sir William persisted in his views.
a

                         if

                                          it

                                                                                  itA Feby. '82.I

    DEAR DUKE OF ARGYLL -- am much interested to

see that independently you have come to the same con
clusion regarding the source of all our terrestrial energy

xv              THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION               611

as I had been forced to come to a long time ago. You

will see the thing referred to on page 22 of the enclosed

address. It is more fully developed in an article under

the title " On Mechanical antecedents of Motion, Heat,

and Light," which is published in the British Association

Report for 1854.

    As to the extract from The Times, which I return,

the writer does not seem to have noticed that while saying

that ardent faith in the existence of numerous inhabited

worlds throughout space, such as Sir David Brewster had

expressed, was more sentimental than scientific, I had

myself expressed a very strong conviction, not only that

there is life in other worlds than this, but that some of

the life in this world is in all probability of meteoric
origin ; and that I returned to the subject again and

again in the British Association Meeting at York, and

obtained the appointment of a Committee to investigate

meteoric dust, chiefly with a view to ascertaining whether

any of      it   contains    either traces or actual  specimens
of life. .                   me, yours very truly,
            .   .-- Believe

                             WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Sir William Thomson also took part in the
proceedings of the sectional meetings of the Asso
ciation, and in presenting the Report of the Com
mittee on Tidal Observations, added an extempore
statement as to the determination of the amount of

tide in the solid body of the globe, which he pro
nounced to be far more rigid than a globe of glass
of the same size would be.

    The Association over, Sir William Thomson
hastened to the quiet of his yacht. During calm
days he made some extremely interesting observa
tions on the sets of capillary ripples which are
originated in water streaming past a fixed narrow

612  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

obstacle, such as a fishing line. These he described,
with the theory of them, in letters to Tail, dated

Aug. 1 6 and 23. They are reprinted in Appendix
G of the Baltimore Lectures, 1904. On the 24th
he was joined by Helmholtz, who came from
Germany too late for the meetings. Helmholtz's

letters to his wife give so graphic a picture of his
Scottish friends and their activities, that a few

extracts must be given. The extracts are taken

from letters ranging from August 20 to Sep

tember 14 :--

      St. Andrews has a splendid bay, with fine sands which
slope sharply up to the green links. The town itself is
built on stony cliffs. There is a lively society of sea-side

visitors, elegant ladies and children, and gentlemen in
sporting costumes, who play golf. This is a kind of ball-

game, which is played on the green sward with great
vehemence by every male visitor, and by some of the

ladies :-- a sort of ball game in which the ball lies on the

ground and is continuously struck by special clubs until

it is driven, with the fewest possible blows, into a hole,
marked by a flag, about an English mile distant. The

entire round over which each party wanders amounts to
about ten English miles. They drive the ball enormously
far at each blow. Mr. Tait knows of nothing else here

but golfing. I had to go out with him ; my first strokes
came off-- after that I hit either the ground or the air.
Tait is a peculiar sort of savage ; lives here, as he says,
only for his muscles, and it was not till to-day, Sunday,

when he dared not play, and did not go to church either,
that he could be brought to talk of rational matters. The
Browns are also here, and he (Crum Brown) will accompany

me to-morrow to Sir William. At dinner we had a

chemist, Andrews, from Belfast, with his wife and daughter,

and to-day Professor Huxley, the famous evolutionary

xv         HELMHOLTZ PAYS A VISIT                        613

zoologist, all pleasant and interesting people. From Sir

William we had yesterday two telegrams and two letters,

to-day two telegrams with changing directions. The

yacht squadron will sail earlier, and the latest instructions

are that we go to-morrow evening to Glasgow to sleep in

Thomson's house at the College, and on Tuesday join the

yacht squadron at Inveraray on Loch Fyne. W. Thom

son must be now just as much absorbed in yachting as
Mr. Tait in golfing.
    (INVERARAY, Aug.  24,  1871.) -- I  came  yesterday  with

Professor Crum Brown, who luckily stuck to me till we

reached the Lalla Rookh, in order to witness here the festivi

ties of the clans-folk belonging to the Duke of Argyll at the

reception of their future chieftainess, the Princess Louise.

On Sunday we had dinner with Crum Brown, with whom

is staying a great mathematician from London, Sylvester,

in aspect extremely Jewish, but otherwise an important

and presentable person. After dinner we had to leave

the ladies and retreat to the smoking-room ; Tait would

not allow anything else, but we got on well. Mr. Sylvester

has been treated by Mr. Gladstone about as badly as

could have happened at the hands of a Prussian Cultus-

minister -- or even worse ; and there was great indignation

about it expressed by the company. As to their attend

ance at worship, they all excused themselves, as also did

the ladies, on account of the rain. On Monday after

noon I travelled with Prof. Crum Brown to Glasgow.

In Glasgow we slept in College, where a nephew of

W. Thomson did the honours. The interior of the house

was not yet finished, neither carpeted nor painted, full

of old furniture not yet put into place, and it produced
an indescribably sad impression, as if no one cared about

    in contrast to the old house which Lady Thomson had
it it,

                          .
                               .
                                    .

                                                                        is It

                                                                                             is I
managed. In one corner of the dining-room hung an

exceedingly fine and expressive portrait of her, and below

    the couch where she used to lie, and her coverlet.

was very sad and could scarce restrain my tears.

very sad when men lose their wives, and their life       left

desolate.  There are about forty yachts assembled

6 14         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                 CHAP.

here, slender and elegantly built ships, and some of them

tolerably large. Thomson's belongs to the larger sort, is

a two-master, and is quite commodious. At the moment,

besides Professor Crum Brown and myself, there are, on

the yacht, Thomson's two sisters-in-law, another relation

Houldsworth, and a London physicist Gladstone. My

cabin is just about so large that I can stand upright in it

beside the narrow bed : the rest of the space is less lofty,

yet it contains wash-table, dressing-table, and three

drawers, so that I can arrange my things well. For

washing the space is rather small, particularly when the

ship rolls and one cannot stand firm. To-day we began

the morning by running on deck wrapped in a plaid and

sprang straight from bed into the water. After that an

abundant breakfast was very pleasant. Then came visits

to the other yachts, and so the day has up to now passed

very pleasantly in spite  of the rain.     Aug.  27.)--Thurs
    (GLASGOW COLLEGE,     Sunday evening,

day was still worse : we went to lunch on shore although

the waves were already so high that the yachts began to

be unsafe at anchor. We saw some Highland sports and

dances. . . . Yesterday morning there was less wind,

but sun and rain alternately. The morning was passed

in preparations for departure, which was accomplished

about one o'clock. Thomson and his men manoeuvred

the ship very cleverly, and the afternoon was passed

with tolerably good weather, while we sailed back slowly

along Loch Fyne. But then the wind caught us, and we

went at a surprising speed the last two-thirds of our course

to Greenock, the port for Glasgow. This evening we are

to go with two nieces of Thomson's to Largs ; Monday

to Belfast.

    On board the yacht they studied the theory of
waves, " which," says Helmholtz, " he (Thomson)
loved to treat as a kind of race between us."

When Thomson had to go ashore at Inveraray for
some hours, as he left he said : " Now, mind,

xv               A YACHTING CRUISE                          615

Helmholtz, you're not to work at waves while I'm

away."

    On Aug. 3 1st Sir William wrote to his sister,
Mrs. King, from the yacht in Bangor Bay, County
Down :--

    I am just going to land along with Prof. Helmholtz,

and Dr. Andrews, who came down last night and slept in

the L. R., to see a regatta to-day and accompany us to

Clandeboye, Lord Dufferin's. We shall be at Clandeboye

till after dinner to-morrow night, and then sail for Skye.

Post Office, Portree, and, care of Professor Blackburn,

Roshven, Fort William, are the best addresses. . . . We

dined with James on Thursday after Helmholtz had an
opportunity of seeing Dr. Andrews in his laboratory. . . .

On Friday morning a party of twelve came down (Dr.
and Mrs. Andrews and two daughters, Prof. Everett,

and James and his family, and Mary Bottomley) making
seventeen in all. . . . Late in the evening, a wonderfully

beautiful moonlight night, Dr. A., J. T. B., Helmholtz,
and I, drove down to Cultra and got on board the

L. R. about midnight. We went on shore to breakfast

with W. B. at Cultra this morning, and had a fine sailing-

day for    the   reBgEaLtFtaASsTi.nc--e.  We  arrived  off  Holywood about
     Aug.   31,

one o'clock this afternoon. We do not leave till Sunday

night about midnight, Lord Dufferin having asked Prof.

Helmholtz and me to come to his house on Saturday

to stay over the Sunday.

    After a very pleasant visit to Clandeboye they
sailed from Belfast on Sunday night, but had very
bad weather, which prostrated them all -- " even
our Admiral," says Helmholtz. The party con
sisted of Sir William, his brother, his brother-in-

law, two nephews, and the Geheimrath. They
visited Oban, Loch Etive, and Tobermory. Thence

616  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                    CHAP.

to Roshven, whence Helmholtz wrote on Sept.

9th: --

     W. Th. was very eager to arrive here, where his
colleague Mr. Blackburn, Prof, of Mathematics in

Glasgow, has a lonely property, a very lovely spot on a

bay between the loneliest mountains. The Atlantic

showed itself this time very friendly, and we came quickly

...here, so that in the afternoon we could take an excursion
with the family and dined with them.        I expect

that in the next day or so we shall abruptly begin

our return, for Sir W. is very undecided as to the north

side of Skye. . . . Mrs. B. has a remarkable talent for

...painting animals. She fashions all her doings and house
hold ways to suit her professional tastes.  It was

all very friendly and unconstrained. W. Thomson

presumed so far on the freedom of his surroundings

that he always carried his mathematical note-book about

with him, and as soon as anything occurred to him, in

the midst of the company, he would begin to calculate,

which was treated with a certain awe by the party. How

would it be if I accustomed the* Berliners to the same

proceedings ? But the greatest natvet/ of all was when

on the Friday he had invited all the party to the yacht,

and then as soon as the ship was on her way, and every

one was settled on deck as securely as might be in view

of the rolling, he vanished into the cabin to make calcula

tions there, while the company were left to entertain each

other so long as they were in the vein ; naturally they

were not exactly very lively. I allowed myself to seek

amusement in balancing myself up and down on the deck,

in wavering grace, and occasionally setting cataracts of

sea-water to run off my waterproof.

    After cruising in the Sound of Skye they
returned through the Sound of Mull, where,

being becalmed, they made experiments on the
velocity of propagation of the smallest ripples

o

=


xv                  WAVES AND RIPPLES                            617

that can be formed on water, and so back to

Glasgow.

                                              L. K., LARGS BAY, Oct. 29, '71.

    DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I have too long omitted to

write to Du Bois Reymond in acknowledgment of the

notice he sent me of my having been elected to the

Berlin Academy.     I received it on my way through

Glasgow to the L. R. after the British Association, and left

it in the house, which is now all in confusion, being handed

over to painters and paperhangers. It may be some
time yet before I can find the off1cial intimation, and as I

am anxious not to delay writing to Du Bois Reymond,

you would oblige me much by telling me what is the

proper designation of the Academy ? Imperial ? Royal ?
Berlin Academy of Sciences, I presume ; also what is

the designation of my own appointment -- corresponding

member ? foreign member ?

     I   hope you    found all   well  at home when you arrived,
        that all "  went well   " in
and                                    respect to the marriage. I

suppose you are now fairly launched on your University
" Semester." Our " session " commences to-morrow week,

and by this day week the Lalla Rookh will be at her

winter moorings in the Gareloch. I have lived on

board ever since you left (not merely because my house
has been uninhabitable), but except two trips to Loch

Fyne and two to Arran I have been chiefly between

Largs and Greenock, and working hard at my reprint

etc. of Electrostatics and Magnetism, which I am anxious
                                       It has been " on the
to get   launched before   Christmas.
stocks  " for about five  years.

    You should look at Cauchy and Poisson on Waves,

the Concours de 1815, when you have time. The point

/ _lies in the evaluation of the function
                                       cos tnx-<Ms(t ,Jgm)dm

(for the case of motion in two dimensions) ; considered as a
function of x it is a fluctuating function of a very curious

character. We must have it tabulated by the British

    VOL. II                                                   D

618 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

Association's Function -calculating Committee. Cauchy

makes the thing very clear.      Poisson I don't know

so well yet. Both would be greatly improved by

diagrams showing the forms of the waves and the laws
of variation at different depths, etc. I was under a

misapprehension when I spoke to you lately on the

subject. I thought that a single disturbance at a point

or along an infinite straight line, such as is produced

by dipping a solid into water and not raising it out, but

leaving it at rest, could not cause oscillations. What

it does really is to cause a positive swell to spread out

in each direction, followed by a series of undulations,

negative and positive, finer and finer, and at any one

place of the water, becoming finer and finer in length from

crest to crest ultimately in proportion to -f After ten or

twenty waves have passed a point at distance x from the

place of disturbance, the wave length (in the case of
motion in two dimensions) is very approximately

4«*   or  ***%?,

·^T,

where x must be a large multiple of the diameter of the

disturbing body, but a small fraction of ^f/*.
     Did you meet Strutt 1 when you visited his family in
England ? I hear that he would
professor in Cambridge if Maxwell  have been the new

                                   had not accepted. --

Believe me, yours always truly,

                                 WILLIAM THOMSON.

    On Nov. 2, still cruising off Largs, he wrote to
Professor Andrews that he was awaiting Napier
to make trials of his pressure - log, after which
the yacht was to sail to winter quarters in the

Gareloch.

    At the end of the cruising season he wrote to

Dr. J. Hall Gladstone :--

                                               1 Lord R&yleigh.

xv END OF THE YACHTING SEASON 619

                                       LALLA ROOKH,

MY  DEAR      GLADSTONE              GARELOCH, Nov.  4, 1871.

                            --You have heard         from my

sister that I am to be in London this day week. Even

should it not be convenient to you to let me stay with

you this time, I hope to have the pleasure of seeing you

in the course of the few days that I shall be in London.

I do not, however, wish to delay so long answering about

the Tidal Committee in reply to Mr. Unwin's letter. The

present Committee of the British Association on Tides is

a new one, which was appointed about four years ago,

and has been continued from year to year since that time,

with grants of money for calculating results of observa

tions such as those given by tide-gauges, and generally

for promoting the investigation of tides. . . .

The Committee will be glad to receive the curves of

the Calcutta Tide-gauge, and to apply the method of
reduction which we have been following if we find that it

Can be done with advantage. . . .

    I am now on the point of " flitting," as we say in

Scotland, from my summer quarters on board the Lalla

Rookh to the College. I am alone with one man on

board waiting for my train, the others having just sailed
away in the " cutter " and " gig " for Greenock to leave the

boats there for the winter, and to find places, chiefly

no doubt in foreign going ships, for themselves. . . .

-- Believe me, yours always truly,

                                  WILLIAM THOMSON.

    The business in London was a petition for the

prolongation of the patent for the mirror galvano
meter. Sir John Karslake, Q.C., was counsel for
the petitioner ; Mr. Archibald for the Crown. Six
weeks later Sir William wrote to his assistant, Mr.

Leitch, who was in charge of the recorder at Suez : --

     MY DEAR  LEITCH --  .  .  .  Ten             Dec. 14, 1871.
Council gave
                                       days ago the Privy

              me a prolongation for 8 years of my

620          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN         CHAP.

1858 patent. My formal petition for the prolongation
was made last summer, and the three cis-Indian and the

three ultra - Indian Companies all lodged objections.

They, however, withdrew their objections before the

petition was heard, and promoted rather than opposed

my case. I also got assistance from Sir C. Lampson,

who was deputy -chairman of the Atlantic Telegraph

Company, and from Mr. Saward, their secretary. Also

Mr. Willoughby Smith, Sir James Anderson, Sir Daniel
Gooch, Captain Sherard Osborne, Mr. Fender, and other

influential    people  in the companies  were favourable. .  .  .
             truly,                          W. THOMSON.
-- Yours

    Further details are given in a letter to Miss

Jessie Crum, then abroad:--

                                        GLASGOW UNIVERSITY, Dec. 12, 1871.

    DEAR JESSIE -- I have been hearing of you all in

several indirect ways, the last of which was Mary's letter
to Dr. Rainy, which he brought to me one day. I hope
you are getting on well, and feeling comfortable in your
villa. I should be much obliged by a letter from either
you or Mary, when you have time to write. You must look
upon this simply as a begging letter. I cannot give any
thing in return for what I have been asking, as the things
I have been kept incessantly busy with are dull and

uninteresting, except so far as getting through little by
little what must be done is interesting.

     I was in London again from Saturday last till Wed
nesday about my petition for prolongation of my 1858
patent I had been warned by Grove (who was my

counsel until he was promoted to be a judge) to expect
nothing, and to consider that even a prolongation for one
year would be a good result. The Privy Council gave
8 years. The case altogether went off very well. The

judges early intimated that they did not require any
more evidence as to the " merits of the invention," and

they showed a liberal spirit in respect to accounts, etc.

XV               PROLONGATION OF PATENT                                621

Varley had prepared an admirable apparatus for illus

trating the action of my mirror instrument, and showed it

in action to the judges, which had a very good effect.

The Telegraph Companies (8 now in all) with whom I
have come to agreement are all very pleasant and friendly,

and the new instrument is making its way eastwards

(now as far as Suez, and going off to-day to Aden and
Bombay). Until the time when I was coming home from

Brest, when we were at Barra House, there was nothing

settled. As soon as anything should be settled, it went

into unsettlement, with another prospect of a lawsuit, again

up till that time. I well remember the warm congratula

tions and sympathy we had when we hurried home from

Kissingen the year before, and things seemed to be settled

in London. Then I went off again, and all the winter

we were in Edinburgh it was a subject of anxiety to my

dearest Margaret. It was not till the August following

that I could tell her it was all settled. Since that time

those things have gone as prosperously in every respect as

possible ; but she only knew the perturbations and toils,
from some of which she suffered greatly by over-fatigue

going to Valencia in 1858. Near the end of April, when
very good accounts of the new instrument came from St.

Pierre, and the Indian Companies were all wanting to
               she said, "
haveI                       is It    just the fruit of your labours."

          it,                    is
             must stop now, and go on with my book on

Electricity, which chiefly compiled from things written

more than twenty years ago, and some which wrote in
                                     if
                                              I
Edinburgh the last winter we were there. Macmillan                     I is

pressing me to get out by Christmas, possible, and
                            it

am at every moment of spare time.
             it

    With love to your mother and Mary,  I  am, yours

always affectionately,               WILLIAM THOMSON.

    In January 1872 Sir William was busy over the
proofs of his reprint of papers on Electrostat1cs and

Magnetism, which had been on hand for four years.

In February he was in London with Dr. Gladstone
                                                                       ;

622    LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

then went to Edinburgh to work with Tait at proofs

of the smaller Elements of Natural Philosophy, for
the Oxford Press (see p. 472).

     On March 29 he wrote of his doings to
Miss Jessie Crum : new cable schemes, trials of
telegraph instruments old and new, correspond

ence "with my old friend De Sauty, and several

others of the old Atlantic people, who are all

much taken up with the recorder, and (under
instructions from Sir James Anderson) doing their
best to get it to work well." He is proposing a

short spring cruise before session ends, and then

to sail to Gibraltar to see the recorder working
there. He has a prospect, after the British Asso

ciation is over, at the end of August, of going to
Quebec with Dr. Norman Macleod, but the project
was cut short by the death of Dr. Macleod in June.
Two of his nephews will be required as lieutenants
in the new Atlantic cable scheme. " There is

quite an epidemic amongst the laboratory students
of desire to become telegraph engineers."

Then comes a commercial shadow across the

path.  GLASGOW UNIVERSITY, 3 April, 1872.

DEAR JENKIN -- I am sorry to hear what you tell me.
I have no confidence in B  , and would require any

statements as to the use of the mirror to be very carefully
sifted before we can admit them. It would be necessary

for him actually to have used the mirror on the cable,

and also at a time found inconsistent with my claims,

before we could admit any weight to the objection to our

rights. Find out, if possible, taking whatever law advice

is necessary, to what extent experimental use of an

xv  MORE CABLE PROJECTS  623

invention in that way, confessedly mine, can invalidate

my claim. If he only experimented with it on the cable,

and did not use it for practical working on the line, I do
not believe his objection will be valid. Try, however, if

possible, should the case look bad against us, to make
a compromise, as the companies no doubt admit the

moral right. Of course we know that directors can't be

generous with their shareholders' money, but the proper
mixture of generosity and worldly wisdom, escaping
litigation, and procuring us as allies and assistants to
their signalling arrangements, may commend itself to
them. We have another string to our bow in the
recorder. For all their lines it must cut out the mirror,
and that speedily. But be cautious in using or showing

this string. If we can get our terms for the mirror con

sented to, we can make more use of our recorder rights
than if we put them forward now. In the course of six
months, I believe, I could give thorough good recorders
for their lines. You may feel confident as to this, and

use it as you think best. -- Yours truly,
                                              WILLIAM THOMSON.

    By April 1 1 he is able to send word to Leitch

that Sir James Anderson now considers the re
corder to be the instrument for all their cable

stations.

    On April 28 he writes again, from London, he

has been suddenly called up on business of the
" Great Western Telegraph Co."; that he intends

to go to J. T. Bottomley's marriage at Belfast ;

and that on Friday he hopes to be at rest on his
yacht in the Gareloch, ready to put to sea. He is

wishing to sail for Gibraltar as soon as possible,
that he may be free to go later to Bermuda. " On
Friday I got the last MSS. of the book out of

hands."

624  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

    The Great Western Telegraph Company was a
project to lay a cable via Madeira and the Bermudas
to Boston and to the West Indies ; but later by
arrangement with the earlier companies the project
was altered, though the cable for this work had

been manufactured and the ship Hooper specially
designed for laying it ; and it became merged in the
Western and Brazilian Telegraph Co., which laid
cables in five sections from Para to Rio Janeiro,

touching at Pernambuco. Eventually this and
other South American cables were taken over by
the London Platino- Brazilian Telegraph Company.

    About June 1st Sir William wrote to Helm-
holtz : --

                                     50 GROSVENOR PLACE, LONDON, S.W.

    DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I am going to Scotland

to-night, and return to London about the middle of next

week, to spend two days in this house (of Mr. Spottis-
woode, President of the London Mathematical Society).

     On Saturday the 21st I hope to sail from Torquay

for Gibraltar, and to call at London on my way back,

visiting the telegraph stations at both places, my recorder

being now in constant use there.

     There is now a great telegraph project in the course
of execution to lay cables from England to Bermuda, and

then to New York and St. Thomas. The manufacture

of the cables has commenced, and Fleeming Jenkin and
I being engineers to the Company are obliged one or
other of us to be very frequently in London. We have

a great deal of electric testing to do -- insulation, electro

static capacity, and resistance of the copper conductor,
also testing the strength of the iron wire and of the
finished cable. The laying will not be commenced till
this time next year. I am living chiefly on board the
Lalla Rookh, off the south of England, and coming up to

xv                        THE "HOOPER"                              625

London when necessary. I can only get mathematical

work done in the yacht, as elsewhere there are too many

interruptions.

    A few days ago I despatched the very last of my

volume of Electrostatics and Magnetism to the printers,

except the preface, and I am now getting to work on

Vol. II. of the Natural Philosophy, and the reprint of

Vol. I.

     I hope you have been well, and your family all well,

since we parted at the "Albert Quay." Is your new
laboratory finished or making satisfactory progress? I

hyoopue.--iBt elwieivlle  turn out   in all respects  satisfactory  to
                          me, yours  very truly,

                                     WILLIAM THOMSON.

    By this time the new company was fairly afloat,
and the partners had to keep a staff of electricians
at work, some at Mill wall, others at Mitcham under

David T. King, to superintend the manufacture.
Sir William had to spend two or three days each
week at the works. He has a way of turning up at
the Millwall works on a surprise visit, arriving once

at 2 A.M. in a dripping mackintosh, with a black bag
in his hand, "for all the world like a tea-traveller,"
as one of the assistants writes. He is living the
rest of his days on his yacht, cruising round

Torquay, or taking his friends -- Dr. Gladstone,
Mr. Varley, and Dr. Siemens -- trips to Sheerness
or Margate. He varied these amusements by

reading to the London Mathematical Society a
paper on the reduction of Polynomial Quadratics,

which he had worked out in the quietude of his

yacht.

    On June 24th he wrote to Lord Rayleigh, from

626        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                 CHAP.

Torquay, respecting             certain paragraphs                         of " the
book " :--

    I am on the          wing   --forifGtiimbrealbteafror(eantdhe  other   telegraph
                         Brest                                     B. A.,  Brighton,
stations -- Lisbon,

Aug. 14, permits). I hope to despatch from Gibraltar all
I have to say in the way of additions or amendments to

the first two or three sheets of Vol. so that the reprint
                                is
may go on forthwith. Meantime, or as soon as possible,: I.,

amendments or suggestions for early parts or any part of

the volume sent to Tait will be thankfully received.

Then he sails for Gibraltar one Sunday morning

from Gravesend. But just as they weigh anchor
the " Thames Mission " boat comes up, and Sir
William orders Captain Flarty to stop the yacht

while the minister conducts service for them on

board. By June 24th he has got to Torquay, and
has taken aboard the new recorder for Gibraltar,

and some new instruments for sounding and for

measuring speed at sea. While he away affairs                      is

at home do not flag. White pushing on with im

proved recorders; and Donald MacFarlane, writing

him to report progress of the laboratory work in
the new building of the University, says " have
                                                                       :   I

taken possession of the spare room above the stair

case (without leave), and in one corner of                                it   have
                                                                            I

stowed all the packing-boxes which were always in

the way."

Returning to England, August 1st, he writes in

the train, from London to Torquay, to his sister-in-

law detailed account of his tour --
I
  a

                      a
     have had very pleasant and satisfactory cruise, and

xv  A MEDITERRANEAN CRUISE  627

made useful as well as interesting visits to the three tele

graph stations, Gibraltar, Lisbon, and Porthcurno (though
only three hours at the last in consequence of a letter,

reinforced by a telegram, summoning me to attend a
meeting of the " Great Western Tel." Board in London
yesterday). At Gibraltar my old enemy, but now very
good friend, De Sauty, who was at the other end of the

cable in 1858, has managed admirably with the recorder,
and has entirely given up the mirror in all the work of

the station. I found him as agreeable and obliging as
possible in every way. We were almost constantly at

work in the telegraph office from the Sunday : morning,

when I arrived, till the Saturday morning, when I sailed

for Lisbon. . . .

    The rest of the letter is full, moreover, of lively

details about the monkeys on the Rock of Gibraltar

that came early in the morning to visit the telegraph

station there ; of his trip towards Algiers in the Lalla

Rookh with De Sauty on board ; and of his voyage

home via Lisbon. To-morrow he will sail from

Torquay to Cowes for the R. Y. S. Regatta.

     Brighton was the scene of the British Associa
tion meeting of 1872, and Sir William went there

for three days to introduce his successor, Dr.

Carpenter, into the presidential chair, and to read

two papers -- one on the Identification of Lights at
Sea, the other on the Use of Steel Wire for Deep
Sea Sounding. In the latter he narrates how in

the Bay of Biscay he has corrected the charts, using

   l " Particularly the Sunday, which at all the stations of submarine lines is

the great day for testings and adjustments, lawful on the ground of necessity
and mercy. About five o'clock on the Sunday the cable has generally done
its week's work, and is nearly at rest till about eleven on Monday forenoon ;
bat for three weeks together it has been never once clear, which is about as
bad as Mr. Pickwick's cab horse."

628          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                        CHAP.

a lead sinker of only thirty pounds at the end of a
three-mile line of thin pianoforte wire.

    At the Mathematical and Physical Section, in

proposing a vote of thanks to the president, who
had referred to Professor Zollner's electric theory
of comet's tails, he told how some time since, at a
workmen's philosophical institute at Millwall, an
intelligent man produced a glass tube which
cracked when an iron wire was laid along its
inside. The workmen were puzzled by the fact,
but at last agreed that it must be electrical ! The
same merit lay at the bottom of Zollner's theory,

namely, omne ignotum pro electrico.

     More cruising about the Clyde completes the

holiday, and in September he is back at the

University.

    In October 1872 Sir William Thomson was
elected to one of the two life Fellowships at Peter-

house, founded for men distinguished in Science

or Letters ; the eminent Greek scholar, Richard

Shilleto, having been elected to the other in 1867.
    There was now big work in hand over the

manufacture of the new cable, and the building of

the cable-ship for laying   He seeks advice from
                          :
his engineering brother --
                              it.

                                                                                     ;
                            GREAT WESTERN TEL. Co.,

                                                     103 CANON STREET, LONDON,
                                                                          Oct. 30, 1872.

     MY DEAR JAMES -- Hooper's Telegraph manufactur

ing company have ordered for cable laying a ship

350 ft. long, 55 ft. beam, 36 ft. moulded depth                                         builders'
measurem* = 4940 tons.

xv                THE "HOOPER"                                 629

    Jenkin and I both     strongly  u--rgethaa t  hydraulic    arrange
ment to give power of    manoeuvre                 is to say,  a pump

and water pipes to give means of

discharging water perpendicu

larly across the length at any
one of four places, A, A', B, B',

or at two of them simultaneously. I calculate that

water discharged through an aperture of ^ square metre
-I i\(say 2^ square feet) at a velocity of 6^ metres per
second, that is to say,   or        tons per second, would
                          4 16
give a pressure of one ton. I would wish to be able to
give at least i ton simultaneously at A and B, and

therefore would need to be able to discharge not less

than 3^ tons per second, or 728 gallons per second, or
say 44,000 gallons per minute. The head of water

corresponding to the discharge velocity of 6^- metres per
         y 8 = 2 metres.
sec. is                   I should be much obliged by

your telegraphing to me to above address on Friday

morning your opinion as to the centrifugal pump and

water-ways that would be required for this, and your
opinion regarding Gwynne's pumps, of which I send you

printed prospectus by same post with this. You might

also write to me on Friday, addressing St. Peter's College,

Cambridge. . . . The ship is to be made by Mitchell,

Newcastle, and it is to be finished and round in the Thames
by 26 April, subject to ;£ioo penalty per day for delay

after that date.

    I was made a Fellow of Peterhouse under a new statute

which allows men eminent in literature or science to be

elected independently of marriage.  I             shall go     back to
Cambridge on Saturday on my way     to             Glasgow.
                                                               --Your

affectionate brother,                             W. THOMSON.

                                                GLASGOW COLLEGE, Nov. 5, 1872.

    DEAR JAMES -- I think the hydraulic thwart ship

propeller, according to the data of your telegram, will do.

I spent yesterday at Newcastle with the shipbuilder (Mr.

630     LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                    CHAP.

...Swan of " Mitchell and Co."), and he has found a place
for it  [here follow ten octavo pages of details] . . .

The thing is of extreme urgency, as in three weeks the

plating of the ship about the stern will have commenced.

Many of the frames are up already. I only heard on

Thursday last that she was to be built. I wish they had
told me beforehand, and I would have had a thwartship

propeller in the original plans, which would have saved a

good deal of money on what will have now to be spent to

get it applied. Your professional charge and expenses

must be charged, with the wheel and work of the ship

builders putting it in, to Hooper's Company. If we can

Cgeotmpaanpyracwtiiclal baledopstchiet.m--e,    it  is,I     think, certain that the
                                              In             your affec1 brother,
                                                    haste,

                                                                    W. THOMSON.

                                    UNIVERSITY, EDINBURGH, Monday

                                                      1      1872, Post-mark}.
                                                         8,
                                       [Nov.                 telegram. Mitchell's
DEAR                                                                               are
        JAMES --Thanks for your
quite confident about thwartship screw below main screw

shaft, ft. diameter of screw. Three blades to be driven
a
     6

                       is
by wire rope round grooved rim ft. diameter surround
                                                         6

ing blades of screw. You will receive in few days from
                                                                    a

me (or from Mr. Froude) their drawings.                                  it atelegram
    The engine to be on deck, and have
                                                                I

from them to-day (scarcely time to have read                                   yet) to

esifzfeectofthcaytlinwdeersm. --ay   have   60  Ibs.     pressure,  and  no limit to
                                    Yours,                                  W. T.

Great haste.

    Sir William was at this time living in his half-         a

furnished residence in the professors' court at the

University, his nephew, James T. Bottomley, resid

ing with him and acting as assistant in his laboratory

work and teaching. A well-known feature of his

household was " Dr. Redtail," grey parrot with

red tail feathers, who had been bought in Seven

Dials. Of this favourite bird many stories are told.

xv AN INVITATION TO HELMHOLTZ 631

The best authenticated is his greeting of his master

as he hurried in from the laboratory to join an in
vited party at lunch :-- " Late again, Sir William !
              "
Late  again
             !

    At the end of the year he has a proposal to convey
to Helmholtz :--

                                   ATHENAEUM CLUB, LONDON,

                                   Dec. 2, 1872.

DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I enclose a letter of Dr. Cookson,

Master of Peterhouse and Vice-Chancellor of the Uni

versity of Cambridge, which he requested me to transmit

to you. It is written in consequence of a suggestion I

made to him when I saw him three days ago at Cambridge,
that he should ask you to give the " Rede Lecture " for
o1w8n73.subjIechto--pe
                         you will  accept. You  would choose your
                        anything   upon which   you would like to

speak for an hour, or an hour and a half, to a cultivated

audience. It is given annually in the Senate House of the

University, and the authorities are always anxious to have

a man of high distinction. So far as I know, no one not

a British subject has hitherto been asked to give the lecture.

You would probably, if you accept, prefer to have the

lecture fully written out, and to read it to the audience.

It is desirable that it should be afterwards published.
     In 1866 I was asked to give the "Rede Lecture." I
accepted, and chose for my subject the " Dissipation of
Energy." I did not succeed in getting it written out,

and it has not been published, but I hope sometime to

write it out (with, no doubt, many changes and additions)
and to publish it. I hope very much you will be able

and willing to accept I would make a point of being

at Cambridge at the time. Dr. Cookson will be glad to

hear from you as soon as may be in reply. Address,

The Rev. Dr. Cookson, Master of Peterhouse, Cambridge.

I hope all goes well with you at Berlin. I should be

glad to hear from you.

I am here for a few days on telegraph business, and I go

632            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                CHAP.

to-morrow to Cornwall to test a new cable which has been

just laid from the Lizard to Bilbao. I shall be in Glasgow

again by next Monday, I trust. I shall send you very

soon a printed paper describing the best way I have

found for managing the large tray battery, which has

been doing well. I am getting a battery of eighty trays
of larger size l than those you have, and I expect to get
a very powerful electric light from it. -- Believe me, yours

always truly,                     WILLIAM THOMSON.

P.S. --With trays the same size as yours, I get the

resistance of each cell as low as -12 of an ohm.

MY   DEAR                               GLASGOW COLLEGE,   Jan.   8, 1873.
                                                          sorry
               HELMHOLTZ -- We are very                           that you
are unable to undertake the " Rede Lecture." I cannot

share your misgivings about success in interesting the

audience had you been able to undertake                   it it,  but only

regret that your engagements in Berlin make impossible

for you to do so.
     You have heard, no doubt, before now of the sad loss

we have had in the death of Rankine.  I                   send you by

this post copy of the Glasgow Herald (Dec. 28), con
     a
                               a

                         I
taining an article on his life and scientific work by Tait                                          ;

also a copy of the same newspaper for Dec. 26, containing
two articles, all of which think will interest you. We

lost Archibald Smith,2 too, in the same week, whose name

you may know from the great work he has done for

navigation in respect to correcting the compass error in

iron ships. He was very old and excellent friend of

mine. He has been a hard-working Chancery barrister

almost ever since he took his degree at Cambridge as

"Senior Wrangler" in 1836, or else he must, with his

great mathematical powers and inclination for physical
science, have been one of the foremost men of science of

this country.

     have urged my brother, James Thomson (who                                                      at
21

 I
                                                                                                is
present Professor of Engineering in Queen's College, Belfast,

The zincs 22 inches square.
[See Obituary Notice by Sir W. T., Prat. Roy. Soc. xxii., pp. i.-xxiv.]

xv SOCIETY OF TELEGRAPH ENGINEERS 633<f>

and has been so for many years) to apply for Rankine'sit \f,

vacant chair. I should feel much obliged by your writing                                a
to me a very short statement of your opinion of my
a
                  abrother's merits as a scientific investigator, or qualifica
tions for a chair of Engineering. I have received such
aletters to-day from Andrews, Tait, and Joule, in answer                 E
         a                                                                         a
to similar requests which I made to them. I expect one
from Maxwell. These four, and one from you if you will
write it to me, shall be laid before Mr. Bruce, the minister

(" Home Secretary ") who has to make the appointment,
and I think should constitute sufficient evidence in support

of my brother's application. I thank you very much for
your corrections and remarks on our Treatise. Some of
the former we had noticed. All will be taken advantage of.
I instructed Macmillan to send you a copy of my Electro

statics and Magnetism, which was published just before
Christmas. Wishing you and Mrs. Helmholtz " a good

new year " as we say in Scotland -- I remain, yours truly,

                                                              W. THOMSON.

    P.S.-- I am hard at work just now with your

                                   x = + «* cos + <r

and trying to help myself by to find the shape of
coreless cylindrical vortex couple.

    In this winter of 1872-73 Sir William Thomson

sent several technical communications to the newly-
founded Society of Telegraph Engineers, of which
he was foundation member and vice-president.
These were On New Form of Joule's Tangent
Galvanometer, On the Measurement of Electro
static Capacity, Tests of Battery, and On

Tray Battery for the Siphon Recorder. This last
invention was form created by the necessity of
providing constant current for the electromagnet

   VOL. II

634        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                CHAP.

of the recorder, and consisted of a pile of lead-lined

shallow wooden trays about a yard square containing
zinc grids and sulphate of copper as a modification
of Daniell's well-known type of cell. In the early

spring he read several papers to the Edinburgh
Royal Society, only the titles of which remain ;

also two communications in March to the Institute
of Engineers in Scotland, on " Signalling through
Cables " (illustrated by a model cable) and " On
the Rope-dynamometer." He was also very full

of the question of distinguishing lighthouse lights

by flashing signals, and on signalling the letters of

the Morse code by flags and by waving lights.
He contributed to Good Words of March 1873 an
article on " Lighthouses of the Future" (see p. 725

below).

    The appointment in March 1873 of Professor
James Thomson, LL.D., to the chair of Engineer
ing at Glasgow, as successor to Rankine, was a
great joy to his younger brother. In the summer
of 1873 the James Thomsons lived in Sir William's
College house, and reported to him that the day
after he left for Brazil his parrot, " Doctor Redtail,"
had surprised the household by saying " Sir William

Thomson gone to Liverpool."

     DEAR                         GLASGOW COLLEGE, March 15,  1873.

           HELMHOLTZ -- I have delayed too long               writing

to thank you for your most valuable letter regarding my

brother's qualifications for the chair of Engineering. It

must, I am sure, have had more influence in promoting

his appointment than almost any other document put

into the hands of Mr. Bruce, the Home Secretary. I

xv                                 THE "HOOPER"                    635

have now the satisfaction of being able to tell you that

he has been appointed to the chair. He will remain in

Belfast to finish the business of the present session there,

and next November will enter on his duties in Glasgow.

I hope and fully expect that he will have much more

time here for original research than the comparatively
inconvenient arrangement of the " Queen's University "
allows him in Belfast, and he will find my laboratory a

great aid.

    I hope all goes well with you as to your new laboratory

and school of experimental science.

    Remember me kindly to your wife, and believe me,

yours always truly,                      WILLIAM THOMSON.
    [/*..$.] -- I expect a visit from Joule when my brother
comes over in the course of a week or two, to be formally

admitted to the chair. He is President-elect of the

British Association at the meeting appointed for Brad

ford in Sept. next. Is there any chance of your being

present ? I am sorry that I shall not be able to be
there as I am to be away in Brazil laying cables.

                                         YACHT LALLA ROOKH,

    ...MY DEAR ANDREWS --                  LARGS, May 25, 1873.
                                         I ought sooner to have

written to thank you and Mrs. Andrews for your very

kind invitation, but I waited till I could see my way as

to a   possible   time              for  hgaonidn--g saecerionsgs  to Belfast. I have
had   a great    deal              on                              the new cable-ship

Hooper, and sailing round in her on her first voyage from

the builder's yard at Newcastle to Millwall Dock, etc.,

etc. I have now to get sounding apparatus, and one of

my laboratory students indoctrinated in the use of                                    it it,

despatched by steamer to sail from Liverpool on the
3
                                a
    1st for Para, and take soundings along the coast of

Brazil from Para to Pernambuco.                                    hope about ten days
                                         I
hence to be able to sail across, and to look after the
                                               a
setting up of an eclipsing arrangement which the Harbour

Commissioners have ordered for the light in Holywood

bank. If can manage to remain night in Belfast
            I

636                    LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                        CHAP.

will be a great pleasure to me to avail myself of your

invitation, should the time, which I am sorry is still

nAencderesswasr.ily--  uncertain,   be convenient to    you  and  Mrs.
                       Believe me,   yours very truly,

                                       W. THOMSON.

    On April 23 Sir William wrote to Miss Jessie
Crum that on the Friday before he had set out on
a three days' cruise with his nephew W. Bottomley
and Dr. James Napier. They saw the Ardrossan
harbour light, "an excellent distinguishing light
introduced by Mr. Thomas Stevenson." On May
28 he wrote again from London, where the Hooper

was taking in cable, that he was returning to
Glasgow to sail in the yacht for Liverpool with
Mary and Mr. Watson1 to see sounding apparatus

on a ship.

    Preparations were now far advanced for the
laying of the new cable from Pernambuco to Para.

He sent word to his brother :--

           (Post-mark -- London, S.W., July 16, 1873.)
                                       CABLE-SHIP HOOPER, June 15/73.
     DEAR  JAMES --    .  .         .  The cable-ship came out of dock

yesterday, and after about two days here is to sail for

Plymouth. It may be Saturday next, or more probably

a few days later, that we leave finally for Brazil. Having

seen the cable, and arrangements for testing all right, and

the ship away from the factory, I leave her to-morrow

morning, and after a day and a half in London, leave (I
                        afternoon for  Cowes, to sail
trust) to-morrow       a cable (the "  Direct Spanish   thence west
wards. I have                                            ") to test at

Lizard before going away in the Hooper, and I hope to

be able to sail there, and possibly further to Porthcurno,

    1 Rev. Charles Watson, D.D., who had married Miss Mary Gray Crum.
He was Free Church minister at Largs, and died 1908.

XT                     THE "HOOPER"                     637

and see trials of my new automatic sender there, and,

still sailing in  the  L. R., get  back   to Plymouth   in time.
                  not  answer I    shall  have to take
If wind does                                            train. --

Your affec" brother,                                    W. T.

    On Friday, June 2Oth, the Hooper sailed from
the Thames, having on board some 2500 miles of
cable. On the 26th she landed the shore end at

Lisbon, and proceeded westwards with the rest of
the cable. " Here we are," wrote Jenkin to his

wife from the Hooper, on June 29, "off Madeira at

seven o'clock in the morning. Thomson has been

sounding with his special toy ever since half- past

three (1087 fathoms of water)." On July 7th Sir
William wrote to his sister-in-law from the Hooper,

then lying in Funchal Bay, that they had been there

a week and would be there a week more. A few

days after leaving Plymouth a fault had been found

in the cable in a length of 543 miles that was coiled
in one of the three tanks ; and as the fault was 400
miles down the coil they had had a prodigious work
in uncoiling, splicing pieces, and recoiling. The

expense to Hooper's Company was some ,£200 per

day ; but it was well that the stoppage had been
here, not at Cape Verde or at Pernambuco. He

had been struck by the marvellous beauty of the
island. " It has been impossible," he added, " to

keep off Darwinism, and although Madeira gave

Darwin some of his most notable and ingenious

illustrations and proofs(if         we find at every turn

something to show              (!)
                          anything were needed to

show) the utter futility of his philosophy."

638  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                                CHAP.

    An incident related by R. L. Stevenson in his
memoir of Fleeming Jenkin, deserves mention :--

     I shall not readily forget with what emotion he once
told me an incident of their associated travels. On one of
the mountain ledges of Madeira, Fleeming's pony bolted
between Sir William and the precipice above ; by strange
good fortune, and thanks to the steadiness of Sir William's

horse, no harm was done ; but for the moment, Fleeming
saw his friend hurled into the sea, and almost by his own
act : it was a memory that haunted him.

   A month later Thomson wrote a further account
of the events of the voyage :--

                                          Aug. 8, Friday.
     PLACA DO COMMERCIO, RECIFE, PERNAMBUCO.

We hope to be under weigh for Para, paying out cable

from the stern of the Hooper, before dark this evening. . . .

I have bought a parrot, green, with splendid red tips

to his wing shoulders and end-wing feathers, dark blue

outer wing feathers, light blue and white head, brilliant

yellow breast.1 The colouring is as rich and varied as

Mrs. Bowden Fullarton's dress, and even more harmonious

in general effect. . . .
     Tell Mary that we have had a great deal of dot and

dash practice between the Hooper and the Paraense, both

by lamps at night and (with far more difficulty) by various
other means in the day-time, to be ready to receive her

soundings, and tell her where to go next in choosing out

track for Para. We had some admirable lamp signalling

several evenings at Funchal between the Hooper and Mr.

Blandy's house,  about    i"^   miles distant                                                    The    Miss
Blandys learned  " Morse       very well and                                                  quickly,   and

both sent and read long telegrams the first evening they

tried to the admiration of France and other old tele
1

      it,

                                                                                          is
graphers on board.

     This parrot, "named Professor I'apagaio," lived many years in the

College House. When he died he was stuffed, and now in the Hunterian
Museum in Glasgow University.

xv        THE "HOOPER"  639

    The ladies in question were the daughters of
Charles R. Blandy, Esq., one of the principal
residents of Madeira, at whose villa Sir William

was welcomed. The delay to the expedition lasted

over a fortnight, but at last the repairs were
completed. An eye-witness has recounted how,

when the anchor was weighed, and the Hooper

steamed slowly out of Funchal Bay, a figure was

seen waving a floating streak of white drapery from
a window of the house on the hill high above the

port. " G-O-O-D-B-Y-E " was spelled out. " Eh !
What's that? What's that?" said Sir William,

adjusting his eye-glass the better to catch the
          " Good - bye, good - bye, Sir William
signals.

Thomson." And as the ship's hull dipped beyond
the horizon the white streak still fluttered " Good

bye."

CHAPTER XVI

IN THE 'SEVENTIES

HOLDING his fellowship at Peterhouse, Sir William

Thomson now frequented Cambridge more often ;

and on returning from Pernambuco he paid a visit

there on his way north. He wrote to his sister,
Mrs. King: --

                                            ST. PETER'S COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE,

...MY DEAR ELIZABETH --    Oct. 22, 1873.

                            I am here till the 29th,
when there is an important College meeting which I

should have had to come back from Glasgow to attend

if I had been there. Meantime I am very busy, having

(in consequence of having  been re-elected to a   fellowship)
accepted the office of "   additional examiner    " for the

Senate-house examination of next January. Making

questions and meeting with the other examiners and the

moderators is my present occupation. Then in January

there will be some days of hard work examining the
answers. Since coming here last week I have been again

rowing in an eight-oar     (the first time since   1 846)  with the
" ancient mariners," of    whom Fawcett, the      (blind)  member

for Brighton, is a chief.

     David O1111')1 has been doing very well indeed. He is
not to go out in the Hooper this trip (to lay the Pernambuco-
Bahia-Rio Janeiro sections, for wh she leaves the Thames
on 3rd of Nov.), but will remain in charge at Millwall.

1 David Thomson King, who was drowned at sea (see p. 655).

                                                     640

CH. xvi          IN THE 'SEVENTIES                                        641

This, I think, will be better for his progress afterwards

than going to sea just now would have been, as it makes

him known to Mr. Heugh and others as holding a

responsible position. He will probably go out on the

Para -St. Thomas (a very important part of the work)
next spring. I shall try to get him a short holiday soon.

I shall be in    London from    the 3Oth  tOhect.Hotiollpethreoff3. r--d  Nov.
to make final     arrangements   and see                                  Your

affec" brother,                                     W. T.

    In December 1873 Sir William read a paper to
the Royal Society of Edinburgh on a new method
of determining the material and thermal diffusion
of fluids.

    He wrote on Christmas day from Knowsley to
Mrs. King :--

   Yesterday I came here on a visit to Lord and Lady

Derby for a few days. On Saturday or Monday I go to

Mere Old Hall, near Knutsford, William Crum's place, to

remain till the  end of the     holidays.   I have   to be at             the
Royal Society,   Edinburgh,     on Monday           to " read             "a
                                             week

paper, which, however, will not, I fear, be written till after

the reading. As Mrs. Johnstone told you, I shall have

to be there after this winter, having been elected to be

President                                   examiners l for the
                                            keep me very busy
"    My Cambridge work   (as    one of the
   Mathematical Tripos"         1874) will
                         of

till the end of January, when it will be over. I have

brought the examination papers here (a very large heap)
for revisal, etc. About the 2Oth of January I shall have

to go there and remain till the list showing the result is

given out.

   A letter to Dr. King followed :--

    1 As examiner for the Mathematical Tripos Sir William Thomson intro
duced various changes to give greater width of studies in the direction of
Natural Philosophy. That these reforms did not please all the Cambridge
mathematicians was natural ; but Maxwell, who had paved the way for them,

rejoiced.

642          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN        CHAP.

MY DEAR DAVID --                       CAMBRIDGE, Jan. 27/74.

    I should have written sooner, if only to say so much ;
but that I have been absolutely overwhelmed with ex

amination papers     (answers to  our   printed questions) for
the " Mathematical      Tripos,"  that   is to say, the Cam

bridge University examination for mathematical honours.

The work is exceedingly interesting to me, but most

laborious and wearisomely plodding. For my share of

one sitting of the candidates I got IO^ Ibs. of papers of
written answers.     I have had seven such hauls, and

scarcely any of them less than 5 Ibs. By the same post
with this (or by to-morrow's) I shall send a specimen of
our printed papers of questions wh it may interest you

to see. The questions marked with roman numerals in
it are mine, the " arable " by another examiner. I shall

enclose  it  in a    number   of the   "TeIlewgarasphobicligJoeudrntoalmcaokne
taining  a   report  of an "  address

in London on my way here. I had only (after enormous
labour with Tatlock in two days) succeeded in getting

enough written to occupy 4 MINUTES, and the prospect

had made me feel as if I had a millstone round my neck

for a fortnight before the day. So after I read the little
beginning piece, the rest was a " leap in the dark "

altogether. I had really not an idea of what I was going
to say, so I was thankful when it was all over. I was sur

prised a few days later with a copy of the Telegraphic

Journal containing the report, which had been taken (very
well as I thought) by a shorthand writer. It seems to
contain every word I said, with only a few errors. . . .

     I would like very much to make a cruise in the
Mediterranean, but next May and June I shall in all
probability not be free to do so.

    The Society of Telegraph Engineers, destined
later to blossom into the Institution of Electrical
Engineers, was then not three years old. Sir

xv1  IN THE 'SEVENTIES                                                               643

William Thomson, as its president, in his inaugural
address 1 dealt chiefly with the reflected benefits

which science gains from its practical applications,
and the benefit of the systems of measurement
that grew up out of the requirements of the prac
tical telegraphist. Terrestrial magnetism was still,
so far as its cause was concerned, a mystery ; so
was that of terrestrial electricity. But telegraph

engineers, by investigating the facts over the globe,
could help to solve these mysteries. He regarded

the Telegraph Engineers as a society for establishing

harmony between theory and practice in electrical
engineering, and in electrical science generally, by

organized co-operation.

    Within a month he gave another presidential
address to the Glasgow Geological Society on the
Influence of Geological Changes on the Earth's
Rotation, and communicated a paper on Deep-sea
Sounding. At Edinburgh he read an important
paper on the Kinetic Theory of the Dissipation of

Energy.
    On April 10 he took a preliminary cruise of

four days on the yacht with a party including Jenkin
and some former students.

    To Charles Abercromby Smith (now Sir Charles),
of Cape Town, he wrote :--

                                GLASGOW UNIVERSITY, April 28, 1874.

    MY DEAR SMITH -- You know by this time that I am
again a colleague of yours, as Fellow of Peterhouse. It

1 See The Telegraphic Journal, vol.  67, Jan. 15, 1874; Soc. oj
                                     ii.
                                           p.
                                                                                 p.
Telegr. Engineer? Journal, iii. pp. 1-15, 1874; Pop. Lectures, ii. 206.

644         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN            CHAP.

is pleasant to be again associated with a former pupil

and friend, though we are pretty nearly at two extremities

of a diameter of the earth. Do you remember Tatlock ?

at all events he remembers often hearing about you, and

of your thermo-electric experiments in the laboratory of
the old College. . . . This is written in his hand. As I

have so many engagements, and so much laboratory

work that I am kept constantly standing and walking

about, I can seldom sit down to write anything, and

am obliged to do nearly everything I wish in black and

white by dictation.

    I examined for the mathematical tripos last January,

which gave me a good deal of work from about this time

last year till the beginning of February, first composing

the questions, and then having all the heavy labour of
examining the answers. I was at Cambridge in all at

different times about five weeks, and enjoyed this very

much, as it was very pleasant for me to live once again in

the old College, which by the way, as you perhaps know

too, has been greatly improved and beautified at much

expense. . . . This will be delivered to you by Mr. Coles,

who I believe is already known to you. He
            it                             believe,
                is

                     a
                                          is
                                                   a

                                                             is iIs,
                                                                  I

                                                                          I
to disclose to you, and others who may be interested, a

new form of cable which has been designed by Hooper's

Telegraph Works Company for connecting the Cape with
Aden and Mauritius. It
                                  form of cable in which

have great confidence. The hempen insulation of the

general character which both Professor Jenkin and have

long advocated as being the most suitable for a deep-sea

cable, but  very great improvement indeed on any

thing of this kind that we ever either designed ourselves

or have seen designed by others.

    He was already making plans for the summer.a
On March 26 he wrote to Froude that he must be
in London on 2Oth of April for soiree of the Tele

graph Engineers, and that he intended to sail from

Falmouth on 2nd of May for Madeira. The Lalla

xv1                       IN THE 'SEVENTIES                        645

Rookh was ready. He left instructions to have put
into his Glasgow house a new heating stove to give
next winter a heat " like Madeira," and to procure

plants and flowers to decorate it in the autumn, and
departed almost gaily for the trip. But this time it
was not cable-laying that took him to Madeira.

   Soon he wrote to Mrs. King, then in Florence :--

                                     L. K., FUNCHAL BAY, MADEIRA,
                                                    May 12, 1874.
     MY  DEAR             ELIZABETH  --I  Tuesday,    you heard    from
                                           believe

Lizzie that I intended to sail from Falmouth for

Madeira on the 2nd of May. The Lalla Rookh has done

well -- taken me to the island, 1 200 sea miles from Fal

mouth, in 6f days.        I anchored exactly at noon on

Sunday in Funchal Bay, an hour before the Hooper,

which I had left at Greenhithe on Friday week after

testing the cable on board, and which sailed from the

Thames on the day following. Yesterday I was answered

Yes to a question which I asked very soon after the

English people came out of forenoon church on Sunday.

I was here for sixteen days last June and July on account
of a fault in the cable. Otherwise this greatest possible
                          not have come to me,-- that
b--lesbsuitngsucroeullyd  it is " not chance."            is as we see,
                                                    When
                                                           I came to

Madeira in the Hooper it had never seemed to me pos

sible that such an idea could enter my mind, or that this

life could bring me any happiness. I thank God always

that I was brought here. When I came away in July I

did not think happiness possible for me, and indeed I

had not begun even to wish for it. But I carried away

an image and impression from which the idea came, and

before I landed at Dover in October I had begun to

wish for it. Hope grew stronger till yesterday, when I

found that I had not hoped in vain. I cannot write

more just now, but I send this because I do not wish a

mail now on the point of leaving to go without bringing

the good news. When you know Fanny you will be

646            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                            CHAP.

able to really congratulate     me. Even now I think you
will be glad for my sake.
                                . . .-- Your ever affectionate
brother,                               WILLIAM THOMSON.

The next letter is to Helmholtz :--

      YACHT LALLA ROOKH, FUNCHAL BAY, MADEIRA,

DEAR  HELMHOLTZ -- I            June 23, 1874.    in  Madeira
                                am to be married

to-morrow. I enclose a photograph, and I hope you will

know the original before very long. Let me have a line
addressed Athenaeum Club, London, to say if you are to

be at the British Association in Belfast. I do not intend
to be at the meeting, but if you are to be there we might

see you on your way to or from it. We think of sailing

from Madeira in the Lalla Rookh about the middle of

July, but have not made up our minds whether to make

as short a passage as we can to England, or to touch at

Gibraltar, Lisbon, Vigo, Corunna, on our way, or to keep a

more westerly course and make a little cruise among the

Azores. The future mistress of the Lalla Rookh promises

to be a very good sailor, having already been out a good

many times for a day's sail, one of them round the

Desertas (about 70 miles) and always hitherto escaped
sea-sickness. Still it remains to be seen whether a yacht

cruise on the open Atlantic is a pleasure in direct or in

inverse proportion to its duration.

My present happiness is due to a fault in the cable

which kept the Hooper for sixteen days in Funchal Bay
                  Iwehlol.p--e
last summer.                    you and Mrs. Helmholtz and     your
children are all                With kind regards, I remain,  yours

always truly,                        WILLIAM THOMSON.

    He wrote the same day a similar letter to Dr.

J. Hall Gladstone, adding a congratulation on his

election to the Fullerian Professorship of Chemistry

at the Royal Institution :-- " To be Faraday's suc

cessor is indeed an honour. I am sure you will

find the post most congenial to you."

xv1  IN THE 'SEVENTIES  647

    The Glasgow Herald of July 4, 1874, contained
the following announcement :--

                                          MARRIAGES.
            At the British Consular Chapel, Funchal, Madeira,
        on the 24th ult., Sir WILLIAM THOMSON, Professor
        of Natural Philosophy in the University of Glasgow,
        to FRANCES ANNA, daughter of CHARLES R. BLANDY,
        Esq., of Madeira.

     To his sister Sir William wrote :--

                                      ST. ANNA, MADEIRA, July 5, 1874.

     MY DEAR ELIZABETH --

     On the 24th we rode away in the afternoon to a place

called St. Antonio de Serra, about 4 miles ride from
Funchal, and 2000 feet above the sea level. We lived

there in a house belonging to an uncle of Fanny's for a

few days and then came across to this place. We have

been taking rides and walks every day and enjoying to

the utmost the beauties of Madeira. On Thursday next

we return to Funchal, and remain about 10 days in Mr.

Blandy's house before sailing away in the Lalla Rookh.
--Your affec brother,
                        W. T.

    The homeward voyage in the yacht was
shortened, for off Finisterre she broke her main

gaff, and finished the voyage under top-sail to

Cowes for repairs. Sir William and Lady Thom
son paid a hurried visit to London, returning to
Cowes for further cruising between engagements
in town, which prevented them from going to
the British Association at Belfast. Here James
Thomson was to be president of the Engineering
section, and to him, on August 12, Sir William wrote,
from the Great Western Hotel, Paddington :--

648 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

    MY DEAR JAMES --

      We left Cowes on Friday to come here on business.

 I have been overwhelmed with arrears of correspondence --

reports of recent expeditions. The Hooper is expected
home about the 18th, and I must be here for some time

after that to decide what is to be done with the defective

cable which the Hooper brings home (which was to have
been laid between Cayenne and Demerara, but is brought

back because defective). I don't know how long this
may keep me, but it may be that for several weeks yet I
must be within call of London. We return to the Lalla

Rookh at Cowes to-morrow to remain " at home " in her
until we return to London for the Hooper. . . .

     W. Bottomley tells me you are going to refer to the
eclipsing system of distinguishing lighthouses. I trust
the one on Holywood Bank will be in action and giving
practical proof of the plan. You can scarcely be too

strong in expressions, as the NEED for distinction in REAL
experience, though sailors and admiralty officials believing
honestly that they speak from experience are quite ready

to deny it.
     I think you might refer to the soundings by pianoforte

wire. . . .
     When we get quite free from London we shall prob

ably sail for the Clyde, weather and time permitting. We

should touch at several places on the way so as to have

chiefly sailing by day and resting in port by night. If

the Holywood Bank eclipsing light is as I hope it will

be, we should probably go into Belfast Lough to look

at it on our way, and even without that inducement
we might make Belfast one of our ports and take a few

hours to run up and see our friends there. You, I

suppose, will be back in Glasgow before that time ; but

when we get back to the Clyde I hope you will be able

to come and have a few days' sailing with us. We shall

take the earliest opportunity after getting to Scotland to

go to the College, and perhaps remain there a few days ;
but the yacht will be our headquarters probably till about



xv1              IN THE 'SEVENTIES                                649

the middle of October. You must take some thorough

rest after you get over the B.A. and your address. I am

afraid  in the   meantime    you will be   too busy   to  allow   you
much    rest. .              affectionate   brother,
                 . .-- Your

                                                     W. THOMSON.

    They were not able to attend the British
Association, but Sir William communicated two

papers : one on Perturbations of the Compass at

Sea, and another on his Improvements in Compasses.

To Dr. King he sent a message strongly disap
proving of Tyndall's famous presidential address,

and of the dictum in which he had discerned in
matter " the promise and potency of all terrestrial
life." Thomson thought it "especially inappro
priate." Later they sailed to Belfast, thence to

Largs to visit friends and relations ; then went to
Glasgow to see " home." After that there was a

final cruise to Arran before the session began.
    On October 2gth Sir William wrote to Mrs.

King :--

     We have bought a little piece of ground, Kirklands,

Largs, bounded on the south and north-west by the Noddle

Burn (Noddsdale Burn, properly), on the road to Barr's
farm, to build a house on. We shall begin building

before very long, I hope.    I thought you would be

interested to have the earliest news of this.

    " Netherhall " was the name given to the house,1
a commodious country mansion in the Scottish
baronial style, the building of which occupied many
months. Sir William, with the aid of his brother,

1 For a full description of the building, see The Building News, June 27,
1890. It is there stated that the cost was ^12,000.
VOL. II
                                                          F

6JO         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                 CHAP.

took a large part in the planning of the building,
which was original in many ways. He himself

engaged a master-mason and a master-carpenter,

instead of letting the contract to a builder--a costly
and vexatious plan in the sequel. A dozen years

later the estate was much improved by the purchase
of additional ground. Netherhall was the scene in
after years of many family reunions, and of extended

hospitalities presided over by the gracious hostess.

It was here that Sir William sought quiet hours
when the yachting days were over ; and to it he
retired when he withdrew from his chair in 1899.

    Sir William Thomson was now 51 years of
age, but, save for his slight lameness, as active as
in youth. For nearly thirty years he had never
felt the want of money, and for some years past
had enjoyed a very large professional income.1 He

was supremely happy in his domestic life. Lady
Thomson had been welcomed into the circle of

family relations, and directed his household with
rare dignity and grace. His academic duties were
lightened by the devoted assiduity of his official
assistant MacFarlane, and of his demonstrator and

deputy-lecturer, James T. Bottomley.
    A graphic picture of Sir William as he appeared

    1 The income of the partnership of Thomson, Varley, and Jenkin was
considerable, for they derived handsome profits from their inventions. Varley's

patent for  inthe18s8ig1n, aslplienagkscoonfde"nstheer  was very profitable.    Sir William, writing
to Jenkin                                               quadrant electrometer,   the mirror galvano

meter, and the last recorder patent, which is now bringing us ^3000 from the
Eastern Telegraph Co., £2100 from the Eastern Extension, and .£1500
from the Anglo." The partnership of Thomson and Jenkin as consulting
engineers to various cable companies was also extremely profitable, and

brought them each several thousands a year.

xv1                  IN THE 'SEVENTIES                                                     651

to his students has been recorded by Professor
Andrew Gray, then one of the merry students who
filled the ten benches of the lecture theatre, after

wards his trusted secretary and scientific assistant,
and finally his successor in the chair of Natural
Philosophy. By his kind permission 1 the following

extracts are given from his admirable book :--

     The writer will never forget the lecture-room when he first
              from his place on Bench VIII., few days after the
beheld    it,                                                 ;
            by
beginning of session 1874-75. Sir William Thomson, with               a
activity emphasised rather than otherwise by his lameness, came

in with the students, passed behind the table, and, putting up

his eye-glass, surveyed the apparatus set out. Then, as the

students poured in, an increasing stream, the alarm weight was

released        the bell-ringer, and fell slowly some four or five feet

from the top of the clock to platform below. By the time the
                     ; It
weight had descended the students were in their places, and;a

then, as Thomson advanced to the table, all rose to their feet,

and he recited the third Collect from the Morning Service of the

Church of England.   was the custom then, and                              a it        still one
                                                                                is
better honoured in the observance than in the breach (which
has become rather common), to open all the first and second

classes of the day with prayer and the selection of the prayers

was left to the discretion of the professors. Next came the roll-

call by the assistant each name was called in its English or

Sthceotatinsshw(efror" athdesumcla"nswawserreetuarlwnaeyds. well represented) form, and

     The vivacity and enthusiasm of the Professor at that time was

very great. The animation of his countenance as he looked at

   gyrostat spinning, standing on knife-edge or on glass plate
a                                        a

in front of him, and leaning over so that its centre of gravity

was on one side of the point of support the delight with which

he showed that hurrying of the precessional motion caused the

gyrostat  to  rise,  asondthraettatrhdeingfretehdeompretcoes"siporneaclesms o"tiownas  caused the
gyrostat  to  fall,                                                                     the secret

of its not falling the immediate application of the study of the
   1

                         of ;
                                    a
                                                           a
gyrostat to the explanation of the precession of the equinoxes,
and illustration by model of terrestrial globe, arranged so

and  English   Men Science.    Lord Kelvin, an                 Account of  his ScientificJ.Life
     Work.    By Andrew Gray,  LL.D., F.R.S.,                 V.-P.R.S.E.     London,       M.

Dent and Co., 1908.

652                     LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                               CHAP.

that the centre should be a fixed           point, while its axis --a material

spike of brass -- rolled round a            horizontal circle, the centre of

which represented the pole of the ecliptic, and the diameter of

which subtended an angle at the centre of the globe of twice the
obliquity of the ecliptic ; the pleasure with which he pointed to
the motion of the equinoctial points along a circle surrounding

the globe on a level with its centre, and representing the plane

of the ecliptic, and the smile with which he announced, when

tehlaepasexdis--haadll  rolled  once round the circle,       that  26,000 years had
                        these   delighted his hearers,       and   made the lecture

memorable.

Then the gyrostat, mounted with its axis vertical on trunnions

on a level with the fly-wheel, and resting on a wooden frame
carried about by the Professor ! The delight of the students

with the quiescence of the gyrostat when the frame, gyrostat and

all, was carried round in the direction of the spin of the fly

wheel, and its sudden turning upside down when the frame was

carried round the other way, was extreme, and when he suggested

that a gyrostat might be concealed on a tray of glasses carried

by a waiter their appreciation of what would happen was shown

by laughter and a tumult of applause.

On one occasion, after working out part of a calculation on

the long fixed blackboard on the wall behind the table, his chalk

gave out, and he dropped his hand down to the long ledge which

projected from the bottom of the board to find another piece.

None was there, and he had to walk a step or two to obtain

one. So he enjoined MacFarlane, his assistant, who was always

in attendance, to have a sufficient number of pieces on the ledge

in future to enable him to find one handy wherever he might

need it. MacFarlane forgot the injunction, or could not obtain

     chalk at            the time,          istshueeds,am"eMtahciFnagrlahnaep,penetdoldtheyonuetxot
      So the            command
Imore                                and
                                    was
day.
get plenty of chalk, and you haven't done it. Now have a

hundred  pieces         of       chalk on   tthhiesmle!d"ge  to-morrow;   remember, a
hundred  pieces ;               will count                   MacFarlane,   afraid to be
                        I

caught napping again, sent that afternoon for several boxes of

chalk, and carefully laid the new, shining, white sticks on the

shelf, all neatly parallel, at an angle to the edge. The shelf
was about sixteen feet long, so that there was one piece of chalk

for every two inches, and the effect was very fine. The class

the next morning was delighted, and very appreciative of Mac-

Farlane's diligence. Thomson came in, put up his eye-glass,

looked at the display, smiled sweetly, and turning to the applaud

ing students, began his lecture.

     In the higher mathematical class, to which he lectured on

xv1               IN THE 'SEVENTIES                                           653

Wednesdays at noon, Thomson was exceedingly interesting.

There he seemed to work at the subject as he lectured ; new

points to be investigated continually presented themselves, and

the students were encouraged to work them out in the week-

long intervals between his lectures. Always the physical inter

pretation of results was aimed at ; even intermediate steps were

discussed. Thus the meaning of the mathematical processes

was ever kept in view, and the men who could follow were made

to think while they worked, and          to regard the    mathematical
analysis as merely an aid, not an        end in itself.
                                                           " A little ex

penditure of chalk is a saving of brains," "the art of reading

mathematical books is judicious skipping," were remarks he

sometimes made, and illustrated his view of the relative import

ance of mathematical work when he regarded it as the handmaid

of the physical thinker.

    The  closing  lecture of  the ordinary course    was  tuaskueanllyupo--n  light,
and the  subject  which was   generally the last to   be                      for as

the days lengthened in spring it was possible sometimes to obtain

sunlight for the experiments -- was often relegated to the last

day or  two   "ofAsthtehisseisssiothn.e    So after an hour's lecture Thomson
would   say,
                                         last day of the session I will go on

for a little longer after those who have to leave have gone to
their classes." Then he would resume after ten o'clock, and go

on to eleven, when another opportunity would be given for

students to leave, and the lecture would be again resumed.

Messengers would be sent from his house, where he was wanted

for business  of different sorts, to find  ohuoturwhaaftterhahdoubre, c"omHee  of
him, and the  answer brought would be,
                                                                               is

still lecturing." At last he would conclude about one o'clock,

and gently thank the small and devoted band who had remained

to the end for their kind and prolonged attention.

     In the course of his lectures Thomson continually called on

his assistants for data of all kinds. In the busiest time of his

life --the fifteen years from 1870 to 1885 -- he trusted to his

assistants for the preparation of his class illustrations, and it was

sometimes a little difficult to anticipate his wishes, for without

careful rehearsal it is almost impossible to make sure that in an

experimental lecture everything will go without a hitch. The

digressions, generally most interesting and instructive, in which

he frequently indulged, almost always rendered it necessary to

bring some experiment before the class which had not been
anticipated, and all sorts of things were kept in readiness lest

they should be wanted suddenly.

654 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                    CHAP.
    He wrote shortly to Prof. Andrews :--

                                         UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW, Nov. $tA, '74.

    DEAR ANDREWS -- We are now settled here for the

session. At your convenience I shall be glad to have the

thermoelectric battery and the magnet to test them. . . .
Is my compression apparatus ready ? I shall be very
glad indeed to have it when it is so, and greatly obliged
to you for the trouble you have so kindly taken for me
about it. We said good-bye with much regret to the
Lalla Rookh on Friday last, and left her to be laid up for
the winter in the Gareloch. After a succession of severe
gales, in one of which (the very violent one that wrecked
the Chusan at Ardrossan) she dragged both anchors, and
went ashore in the Gareloch, we had a week of fine
weather and a little beautiful sailing to Arran and in the
Firth of Clyde. So we were very sorry to leave her. We
were fortunately not on board the night of her shipwreck,
by a mere chance of an unexpected meeting of the " Uni
versity Court " keeping us in Glasgow. She was got off

without damage and by ourselves without assistance or

expense, after being 36 hours on soft sand in a very good
position.

    This autumn and winter he had much corre

spondence with Dr. John Hopkinson about electro
lytic action, contact electrification, and the residual
charges of Leyden jars, which the latter was
investigating in connection with the composition
and optical properties of glass.

   Then came terrible news. The La Plata, a ship

chartered by Siemens Brothers to carry some 250
miles of cable to South America for the Western

and Brazilian Telegraph Company, had foundered
off Ushant on Nov. 29th. Amongst the sixty lives

xvi  IN THE 'SEVENTIES  655

lost was that of young David Thomson King, Sir
William's nephew, one of the skilled electricians of
the expedition, a man of great promise. To Mrs.
King, then in Rome, Sir William wrote :--

     David did his duty nobly to the last. Of that I think
you might be sure, even if we had known nothing but that
there had been a disaster. One of the survivors told Willie

Bottomley that he had seen him very near the end, hard
at work passing coals along the deck. . . . The news of

what happened so soon after receiving cheery letters from
him has been a terrible shock to us all. The unspeakable
grief it will be to you and David, and to young David's
brother and sisters, is in all our minds. God only can
mitigate it to you, and to Him we pray that it may be

mitigated. I cannot write more now. I need not tell you
that I share your grief, and we have the warmest sympathy
of my dear wife.

    Sir William and Lady Thomson spent Christmas
at Knowsley and then went to William Crum's
house near Knutsford. At the New Year they went
to Edinburgh, where Sir William was to read papers

on two new instruments, a tide-calculating machine

and a tide-gauge, and on some curious phenomena

of capillary attraction which he had lately found out.

   A project for enlarging Owens College, Man

chester, was then being discussed, and some objec

tion being taken to the expansion of its chemical

and other laboratories as a degeneration from the

legitimate work of a University, Thomson wrote

to The Times (of Jan. 20, 1875) a remonstrance: --
    If to give experimental science and chymistry their

proper position in the curriculum, and to found new
professorships and provide them with all the apparatus

656           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                   CHAP.

for complete and successful study, are tests of degeneration,

Oxford, and Cambridge headed by its Chancellor, and all

the Scotch Universities, have been labouring strenuously

for many years to earn this reproach. . . . Surely a uni

versity must be an emporium of knowledge. . . . Owens

College does, as far as its means allow
              it                                                    perform the

                  a

                      It a

                                            it
                                                     is
                                                         it
                                                                 a

                                                                       it,
                                                                                 a
true functions of University, the cultivation and the

teaching to all comers of the whole body of human know
ledge. It has become what
                                 by true process of

natural selection.      now wants, and deserves, national

funds, supplementary private munificence, and charter

constituting        National University.

Principal Greenwood, Professors Ward and

Balfour Stewart, and Professor (now Sir Henry)

Roscoe, wrote thanking him for his generous

recognition of their case. The matter dragged on

for many months.

    His reply to Roscoe was --
                               :

                                I
                                                   I

                                                                        a
                                                          April 26, 1876.

MY DEAR ROSCOE -- Ever since receiving your letter

with papers regarding Owens College, which read with

much interest and satisfaction,  have been in very

aggravated condition of high pressure accumulating as

usual till the final blow-off at the end of the session now

taking place. This has prevented me from sooner writing
to you to express my most cordial approval of the pro

posal to now move energetically in promoting the earliest
possible creation of the University of Manchester. The

work already done and the position already taken by

Owens College seems to me to make University of
     if I
Manchester inevitable.a it

                            I
                               I

                                                                 a
                        utterly differ from those who

object to any moderate multiplication of universities

throughout the British dominions such as we have in Scot

land, and believe will be a very great benefit indeed in

England you succeed, as hope you will, and that very

soon, in obtaining  charter constituting Owens College

xv:           IN THE 'SEVENTIES                                                                                                   657

into a national University. -- With best wishes for your

success, I remain, yours truly,     WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Two years later, a word from Sir William

Thomson again revived the project, as narrated in

The Life and Experiences of Sir H. E. Roscoe,

pp. 175-176-

    The fame of the Manchester Penny Science Lectures
for the People reached what the Scots term " the second
city of the Empire," and I was invited to give the opening

lecture of a similar series, which a committee in Glasgow
had established. My lecture, on " The Chemical Action

of Light," was given in 1878, in the large St. Andrew's
Hall, before a crowded audience. After it was over Sir

William Thomson (Lord Kelvin), who had presided at the
lecture, remarked to me, " Why do not you make Owens
College into a University ? " I said that we had often

talked about but that we thought the time had not yet

arrived for so momentous proposal. He replied "You
      it
               I

                   it,
                      a

                                               a

                                                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                                               :
are quite mistaken. The time has arrived you have

quite attained University position, and you ought to

make  the University of Manchester." Thinking the

matter over, came to the conclusion that he was right,
and on returning home consulted my friend Dr. Ward,

now Master of Peterhouse, who was then our Professor of

History, on the subject. He at once fell in with the

suggestion, and after some time we convinced our Principal,

Dr. Greenwood, who was of cautious disposition, that
                                 a
                                                           a
we ought to make the attempt to found new English

University.

    On Feb. 3rd, 1875, Sir William delivered ina
the City Hall, Glasgow, lecture to about 2000
persons on " The Tides." Only small part of this                                                                                  1

was written out and the reports of are brief.
              ;                     a
                                           it

1      See Popular Lectures, vol. iii. pp. 191-201     also see The Engineer,
Feb. 19, 1875.
                                                    ;

658 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

    Of the activities of this period, and of the

demands upon Thomson's time, some idea may

be formed from the following letter to James

Napier :--

                                                                                           Feby. 1 6, '75.

    DEAR NAPIER --The new method in my paper does

take into account the fact of the centre of gravity not
being in a vertical with the point of support, and the
effect of this fact on the heeling error. Indeed, what I
have called the heeling error is simply the effect of that

fact. If you please I would explain it in the physical

section of the Philosophical Society in the most unpopular
manner you wish. I can also, if you please, with great
ease, do the same for the tides, and shall be glad to do
so if desired, but on this condition, that not a single scrap
in black and white is expected from me for the Proceed
ings. I am now three years deep in unfulfilled pledges
for the Geological and Philosophical Societies, and I have
resolved to stop payment and put up shutters in my
factory of papers for the Proceedings of either Society.
Bringing apparatus and giving an explanation of it at the
Society, or explaining theoretical subjects mathematically
or non-mathematically, I shall be glad to do at any time
provided I am not expected either to look at a report
of it taken by any one else, or to give anything in black
and white myself for publication. Every moment of time
henceforth that I can give to writing for publication must

be devoted to T & T', and to the description of physical

experiments bringing out new properties of matter, of
which I have now a good many on hand, for the Royal
Society of London.

     In these months Sir William had much corre

spondence about Lighthouses with Dr. Hopkinson.
On the same topic also, he wrote to Prof. Peirce of

Harvard :--

xv1  IN THE 'SEVENTIES                     659

                                                                              Ap. 22, 1875.

     DEAR PROF. PEIRCE -- I send you by book packet

along with this two articles on deep-sea sounding by

pianoforte wires. You will see that I have been obliged

to contrast our own Admiralty not very favourably with

yours in respect to liberality towards suggestions for im

provement. Our authorities are indeed exceedingly heavy

to move in any way which involves the introduction of

new ideas. I am not allowing suggestions for distinction

of lighthouses by groups of eclipses of short and long,

according to the Morse system, to fall asleep. A light

house on this plan has been in action on Holywood Bank,
Belfast Lough, since the first of November, and I am told

by the harbour authorities that captains, pilots, and sailors

are all much pleased with it. They know it with perfect

confidence from any other light afloat or ashore. It was

till last November a red fixed light which could only be

seen about two miles off, and was constantly liable to be

mistaken for a ship's port-side light. When my eclipsing

machine was applied to it the red shade was removed,

and in all respects the light was left unchanged. Besides

having the advantage of being unmistakable for anything

else, it is now visible for a distance of five miles. Its

distinguishing mark is the Morse letter U  (dot

dot dash). The duration of the dot eclipse is half a
second, the duration of the dash is three times as long.

But I keep in the background the fact that, adhering

simply to the letters of the Morse alphabet, we can with

the greatest ease give twenty-eight distinctions, each

thoroughly unmistakable for any other. This has a
tendency to frighten " practical " men. I therefore to
some " practical " men scarcely venture to call the dis
tinguishing mark which I would propose for any one
light a " letter," and rather say " You will know that is

Sanchoty Head, a short and a long," and have it printed
in the list of lights ; and again " You will know that is

Gay Head, a long and a short." Nobody can but answer
" Yes " to this question. The moment you see a short

and a long you know that it is not Gay Head, but

660         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                          CHAP.

Sanchoty Head, or in the case of two lighthouses not

very far from one another it may be judged expedient to

have one of them marked by different numbers of eclipses.

The Sanchoty Head, for instance, might be the letter E

(one short eclipse of half a second occurring every ten

seconds, or every five seconds, as may be judged ex

pedient).

Then the Gay Head might be the letter U (                ), or

the letter D (  ), or the letter R (         ). (You may
                                                     N if you
tell them that  a short and a  long is   the letter
                am told that   it would  perplex "   practical "
please ; but I

men to tell them so much : I don't believe   it,     because                                                     I

don't find sailors more apt to be confused than landsmen

by anything in reason. Still, as long as speak to Light
                                         aI
house Boards and their secretaries and engineers     is I                                                        am

quite ready to say nothing about the Morse alphabet, but

when get to sea do not find that sailor at all
       II       I

more apt to mistake the Holywood light for anything else
when tell him " that mark means the letter U "
                                                     ).

     Is there any hope that your Lighthouse Board would

give the eclipsing system trial          For three years back
                   it a          ?

have continually pressed on our Hydrographic Office,
if I
but have had even more cold water thrown on thisI

         Iproposal than on the pianoforte wire sounding.Ishould

not be at all sorry for either them or the Elder Brethren

the United States authorities were to anticipate them

in this matter as they have in the sounding by pianoforte

wire.       have had two years' struggle with the compass

department of our Hydrographic Office to induce them to

take up some suggestions have brought before them for
                   I

the correction of the compass in iron ships. They are

most obliging in giving me information, but are utterly

immovable for anything like co-operation for anything

new, as they were in the matter of sounding by pianoforte

wire.       now see that anything        to be done in the
I
         II

                                  if

                                                   it
                                                                     is

                                                                                   a

                                                                            I

                                                                                                              a
matter the whole business of will fall upon myself, and

have therefore resolved to take out patent for new

form of compensator and appliances which have now

made.       doubt whether with all the obligingness that has

xv1  IN THE 'SEVENTIES  661

been shown to me I should be more successful in getting
a trial of it than I have been in getting a trial of the
pianoforte wire by our people, until I can offer it to them
as a patented invention. I enclose a small paper by which
if you glance at the conclusion you will see that my great
need is small needles. I have now a compass on my
table before me with four needles, of which the longest
are each two inches long. In the course of this summer

I hope to get a thorough trial of it at sea with the
appliances which I have designed for determining the
error due to the ship's magnetism. In the course of

the last two or three days it has helped me to a very

startling discovery regarding the correction of the quad-

rantal error by soft iron correctors as hitherto practised.
The best thing hitherto done in this way undoubtedly is
the iron cylinders of the Liverpool Compass Committee

applied to our Admiralty standard compass. The results
are described in page 1 74 of the second volume of your
reprint of papers on the magnetism of ships and the
deviation of the compass. There I find the maximum

deviation produced by a pair of the 1 2-inch cylinders

with their ends 7 inches from the centre of the compass
card stated to be 12° 50'. Now I find by experiment
that considerably more than one-half of this error is due

to magnetization induced in the corrector by the needles

of the compass ! Hence if the 1 2-inch cylinders were

applied at Liverpool to correct a quadrantal deviation of

maximum value 12° 50', the error would be enormously
over-corrected in the same ship in the Gulf of St. Lawrence,

and very much under-corrected at the equator. An in
finitesimal needle placed at the position of the centre of

the Admiralty compass card in those trials would have
shown about 5° of effect only instead of 12° 50'. I am
experimenting just now to find as exactly as need be the
amount, but I have already seen that it is certainly less
than one-half that found in the reported trials. I intend

to send a short communication to the Royal Society on
this subject, and hope to have the pleasure of sending
you a copy when I get it in print.

662  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

     In April he read a paper to the London Mathe

matical Society, and gave a discourse to the Royal
Institution on Tides; also three papers to the

Edinburgh Royal Society, one on the Theory of the
Spinning Top, one on the Vibrations of a Stretched
String of Gyrostats, and a third (in collaboration
with Dr. John Perry) on the Capillary Surface of
Revolution. In June he communicated to the Royal
Society two memoirs, one on the Effects of Stress
on Magnetization, the other on Electrolytic Con
duction in Hot Glass.

    The loss of the Schiller on the Scilly Isles in
May gave Sir William Thomson occasion to address
to The Times of May 12th a remonstrance on the

neglect to provide means for taking rapid soundings

which would have enabled the ship to keep outside

the 50 fathom line. He was then at Peterhouse.
    The summer was filled up with cruises on the

yacht at Cowes and other places ; and in August he
and Lady Thomson went to Bristol for the meet
ing of the British Association. Here he read no
fewer than seven papers. three of them mathemati
cal, two on Tides and his Tide-calculating Machine,

one on Magnetism, and one on Lighthouses.
    At the concluding meeting Sir William Thomson

moved a vote of thanks to the President, Sir John
Hawkshaw, in the following terms :--

cyniIcnismhimwhicthhesyaidfo:--und none of the Mephistophelean

                   Grau, theurer Freund, 1st alle Theorie,
                 Und grun des Lebens goldner Baum.

xvi  IN THE 'SEVENTIES                                  663

For Sir John Hawkshaw the golden tree of life retained
its greenness in the revivifying influence of true theory.

Whoever heard him describe the tunnel which is to

connect England with France could not but have felt,

even in such a result as that, that they had a work of

tohfeagllresactieensttifpicosqsiubelestiionntesr--esta  for human beings, irrespective
                                                        result which would give them

a different feeling from any which they could now have

towards their neighbours. He wished their president

success in that undertaking, and hoped in a few years

they would see it finished.

    On Sept. 2 he attended at Bristol a meeting
called in support of the foundation in that city of

a University College. To this project he accorded

the warmest welcome, and expressed the hope that

any of them living twenty-five years hence might
see it grown into a fully-organized University.

     From Bristol Sir William and Lady Thomson

went to visit the Duke of Argyll at Inveraray, where

Royalty was being entertained. The memoirs of

the Rev. Principal Story, who was also a guest,

record the following incident :--

    Sept. 27. --The Thomsons dined this evening, and in

the saloon, soon after the Queen came in, Princess Louise,
in handing her something, upset a flower-glass and spilt
the water, which simple incident sent H.M. into fits of

laughter, which seemed increased by the spectacle of Sir
William Thomson, in an access of loyalty, wiping up the

water with his pocket-handkerchief and then squeezing it
into his tea-cup. The Queen smiled over it till she went
away. Solvuntur risu.

     iiOn Nov.  Thomson gave, in the Glasgow

City Hall, a public lecture on Navigation, referred

664  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

to on p. 719 below. On the walls were hung two

great charts --reproduced on pages 97 and 385 of
his Popular Lectures, vol. iii. --of his voyage in
the Lalla Rookh to and from Madeira in 1874,

marked with observations and soundings. When
he referred to these as taken during the sailing of
" a certain ship," on a certain eventful voyage two
years ago, the audience recognising the allusion

cheered enthusiastically.

    In December he dealt with vortex statics at the
Royal Society of Edinburgh. He wrote to Hop-

kinson on his Leyden jar experiments.

                                                 THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

                                                                             Dec. 13, 1875.

    DEAR HOPKINSON -- A long time ago, in the old

University buildings, I made just such experiments on
alternate positive and negative return charges. I used to

keep a jar charged positively for several hours, sometimes

for several days, then negative for several minutes or

several hours, then positive again for a shorter time and

so on, lastly discharge and put }o electromr. I always
got alternate positive and negative return charges, but I
forgot how many alternations I succeeded in getting. I
never published the result, but I might have properly
done so, and I think you should publish yours. I spoke
of them to a good many people (Maxwell, probably

enough, among them), and showed them in my class. I

think, probably, similar observations must have been made

last century, and I daresay a hunt into old books and
journals might find something of them, but I have never
seen them mentioned in print, and I don't believe they

are generally known.

    You will certainly, I think, get the result however
infinitesimal you make the capacity of the non-coated
part. I shall be glad to send to the R. S. a statement

xv.             IN THE 'SEVENTIES              665

of your results if you please. It would be perfectly well

suited for the Proceedings. People always seem to see

it by common sense. If there can be a return charge

at all there must be the possibility of alternately positive

and negative return charges. (If one note can soak out

of Baron Munchausen's post-horn, why not the whole tune

--only it ought to have come out backwards !)

    The existence of return charge, of course, disproves

the simple exponential formula Ae~w, but it will be curious

to find if your experimental series is better than any
other obvious empirical formula. -- Yours very truly,

                                              WILLIAM THOMSON.

    The year 1876 was one of astonishing activity.
During the spring Thomson made several com
munications to the Royal Society of Edinburgh
on Vortex Columns, on an Application of James
Thomson's Integrator to Harmonic Analysis, on
Vortex Theory of Gases, and on Thermodynamic
Motivity. To the Royal Society of London he
gave three papers on Mechanical Integration. The
physical laboratory was in full swing, with new ex
periments on the secular diffusion of liquids, and
new forms of gyrostats. He was also actively cor
responding with Stokes and other scientific friends,
as the following letters show :--

                                         ARDINCAPLE CASTLE, HELENSBURGH,
                                           DUMBARTONSHIRE, Jan. 1 5/76.

    MY DEAR ANDREWS --

    We are all  greatly   --demligyhtoeldd  in my laboratory with
what you have   given us                    assistant MacFarlane is

in raptures to see carbonic acid compressed to the liquid

state in that always ready way. It will be a splendid

lesson to my students, and I feel that henceforth they
VOL. II
                                            G

666      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN       CHAP.

will every session know more of the meaning of liquids

and gases and vapours than I have ever been able to

teach them before.

     I was not able before I left Glasgow to get the warm

ing apparatus applied, but you may be sure that we shall

not wait patiently long, before doing this and going

through the continuity cycle.

    I need not attempt to tell you how much I thank you

and how grateful I feel for all the trouble you have taken,

and how much I value the result. When I see it set up
in my apparatus room I think of it as a monument

which will remain to generation after generation of pro

fessors and students of Natural Philosophy in the Uni
                               I
versity of Glasgow long after      anmowg.o--ne,Bealinedvewimll e,styilol ubrse
valuable and I hope valued     as

always,                            W. THOMSON.

    On Jan. 21 he wrote to Hopkinson on a form of

pendulum suspension, and asked him to come to

stay with him, as on Feb. 16 Huxley was coming

to Glasgow to lecture, and on 23rd Aitken was to
show experiments on the rigidity of a running

chain. He wrote again to Andrews :--

                               THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

                                                                 March 1 1, 1876.

     DEAR ANDREWS -- I thank you very much for your

warm congratulations on the Matteucci prize. To have

such congratulations from you and other friends adds

...greatly to the gratification which such a reward for
scientific work brings.            I have been very much

engrossed with the compass and sounding machine, but

still trying to get something done in the laboratory. We

have begun to get some very fine results as to the effect

of transverse pull on magnetization by applying and

removing hydraulic pressure on the interior of a gun

barrel under the influence of longitudinal magnetizing

force. We find opposite effects to those of longitudinal

xvi  IN THE 'SEVENTIES                                              667

pull, and as in the case of longi1 pull a certain degree
of magnetizing force for which the effect of pull is zero
with contrary effects for weaker and stronger magnetizing

forces.

                                                   THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,
                                                                         March 17/76.

    MY DEAR ANDREWS -- I hope you will accept the

presidentship,1 and that you and Mrs. Andrews will take
up your quarters here with us for the meeting. It will

be a great pleasure to us, and as all the sections meet in
the University buildings, I think you will find it more

convenient and less fatiguing than living at any greater

distance could be. So you must make up your mind to

...come to us. We hope to have the Taits and the Crum

Browns also with us.
     I have to-day been seeing an exquisite electric experi

ment, quite a first-rate discovery, by Dr. John Kerr. You
may have seen it in the Phil. Mag. a few months ago.
It is literally an " illumination of Faraday's lines of force."
A very moderate tension (by a small electric machine)

much inferior to that required to produce a spark,
between two wires about ^--inch apart, in bisulphide of
carbon, instantly brightened the flame of a lamp which
had been extinguished by Nicol's prisms, and the light

disappeared again the instant the electric tension was
reduced to zero (by touching the prime conductor). The
effect was the same as that produced when a piece of

glass was substituted for the liquid and pulled in the
direction which had been that of the electric force, by
holding a broad slip of window glass in the course of the
light between the Nicol's prisms, with the bisulphide also
in the course. The electric effect was annulled by bend

ing the glass by a moderate force with one's fingers, and
holding it so that the light passed through the condensed
part. When held so that the light passed through
the dilated part of the glass the luminous result

of the electric force was augmented. I bespoke an

     1 Of the British Association to be held in Glasgow that year.

668            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN               CHAP.

exhibition of the experiments for the Association. Kerr
lives in Glasgow (Principal of the Free Church Normal
School) and is continuing his investigations. No doubt
he will have new results to show when the time of the

meeting comes. He was a pupil of mine for the first two
or three years of my professorship, now thirty years ago.

   A Special Loan Collection of Scientific Apparatus

was exhibited in the spring of 1876 at South
Kensington ; and to this Thomson contributed a
remarkable show of instruments, electrometers,

galvanometers, compasses, the Tide-predicter, and
an array of miscellaneous instruments of precision.

Conferences, too, were arranged at which lectures

were given by eminent men. The remarkable
series of Thomson's electrometers was described in
two lectures by James T. Bottomley ; while Sir
William himself gave, on May 17, a discourse on
Electrical Measurement, which is reprinted in his
Popular Lectures, vol. i. pp. 423-454.

    To celebrate the centenary of the Independence
of the United States the American Government

organized the Centennial International Exhibition
of 1876 at Philadelphia. Sir William Thomson was
invited to act as one of the judges in Group 25,
comprising instruments of precision, research, ex
periment, and illustration, including telegraphy.
He left Glasgow on May 20, and wrote to Helm-
holtz from New York :--

               S.S. RUSSIA arriving NEW YORK,
                                     May 30/76.
     MY  DEAR  HELMHOLTZ --Just  before leaving  England

I heard with pleasure that you and Mrs. Helmholtz are

xv1           IN THE 'SEVENTIES                                       669

coming to the meeting of the British Association in

Glasgow next September, and in the hurry of coming
away I was unable to write to you and ask you to stay

with us in the University. I now do so to catch the

mail steamer which leaves New York to-morrow.

     My wife bids me say that she looks forward with

pleasure to the opportunity of making the acquaintance

of you and Mrs. Helmholtz, and joins me in hoping that

you will be our guests during the meeting of the

Association.

     We are now on our way to Philadelphia, where I am

to be one of the judges for scientific apparatus during

June. We intend to be in Glasgow by the end of July,
but " Continental Hotel, Philadelphia," would find me for

a letter posted before the end of June.
     We have had a very fine passage across, with just

enough of rough weather to test thoroughly a new com

pass, which I shall show you when you come to Glasgow.
It behaved perfectly well throughout, notwithstanding a

great shaking from the screw (which almost prevents me
from being able to write legibly).

     I have also been trying soundings by pianoforte wire

from the steamer going at 14 knots, and succeeded in

getting the bottom with ease in 40 fathoms. But I dare
say you will hear enough and more than enough of such

ymoauttewrsithwhtheenmyonuowc.o--meBetloieGvelasmgoe,wyosuorsI  need  not trouble
                                                                very  truly,

              WILLIAM THOMSON.

    The members of the group of judges met on

May 25 and elected Sir William as president, Pro
fessor Joseph Henry consenting to preside until
his arrival. He reached Philadelphia on June 5,
and stayed till June 28. He specially undertook
to 'write reports on electrical and magnetic apparatus

and telegraphy. The general report on instru
ments was written by Henry. Of the 385 reports

670        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                        CHAP.

of specific awards in these classes, no fewer than
forty-one were written by Thomson, the most

important being as follows :--

     I.Edison's Automatic Telegraph; 3. Graham Bell's
Telephone and Multiple Telegraph ; 4. Elisha Gray's
Electric Telephone and Multiple Telegraph ; 5. Philps's
Printing Telegraph; 6. Quadruplex Telegraph; 14.
Gray's Printing Telegraph ; 1 9. Farmer's Magneto-electric
Machine; 24. Gramme's Magneto-electric Machine; 27.

Siemens's Submarine Cables; 221. Lyman's Deep Sea

Wave Machine; 230. Ritchie's Floating Compass ; 247.
Wallace's Regulator for Electric Light; 359. Jamin's
Powerful Steel Magnet ; 383. Edison's Electric Pen.

    The Report No. 3, on Bell's Electrical Inven
tions, comprises: ist, a description of his Multiple
Telegraph, and 2nd, of his Electric Telephone.
The latter is as follows : --

In addition to his electro - phonetic multiple tele

graph, Mr. Graham Bell     exhibits apparatus by       which        --he
has achieved a result of  transcendent scientific     interest

the transmission of spoken words by electric currents

through     a telegraph wire. To       ito--btathine  this result, or
even to
different  make a first step towards   as the         transmission   of
             qualities of sound, such                 vowel sounds
                                                                    --

Mr. Bell perceived that he must produce a variation of

strength of current in the telegraph wire as nearly as

may be in exact proportion to the velocity of a particle
of air moved by the sound ; and he invented a method
of doing so -- a piece of iron attached to a membrane, and

thus moved to and fro in the neighbourhood of an

electro-magnet, which has proved perfectly successful.

The battery and wire of this electro-magnet are in circuit

with the telegraph wire and the wire of another electro

magnet at the receiving station. This second electro

magnet has a solid bar of iron for core, which is

xv(             IN THE 'SEVENTIES      671

connected at one end, by a thick disc of iron, to an iron

tube surrounding the coil and bar. The free circular end

of the tube constitutes one pole of the electro-magnet,

and the adjacent free end of the bar-core the other. A

thin circular iron disc held pressed against the end of the
tube J by the electro-magnetic attraction, and free to

vibrate through a very small space without touching the

central pole, constitutes the sounder by which the electric

effect is reconverted into sound. With my ear pressed

against this disc, I heard it speak distinctly several
sentences, first of simple monosyllables, " To be or not to
be " (marvellously distinct) ; afterwards sentences from a
newspaper, " S.S. Cox has
" S.S. Cox," but the " has  arrived."  (I failed to hear the
                            arrived "
                                       I heard with perfect

distinctness); then "City of New York," "Senator
Morton," " The Senate has passed a resolution to print

1000 extra copies," "The Americans in London have
made arrangements to celebrate the Fourth of July." I

need scarcely say I was astonished and delighted ; so

were others, including some other judges of our group,

who witnessed the experiments and verified with their

own ears the electric transmission of speech. This,

perhaps the greatest marvel hitherto achieved by the

electric telegraph, has been obtained by appliances of
quite a homespun and rudimentary character. With

somewhat more advanced plans and more powerful

apparatus, we may confidently expect that Mr. Bell will

give us the means of making voice and spoken words

audible through the electric wire to an ear hundreds of

miles distant.

     1 It will be remembered that Sir William Thomson brought a pair of
instruments back from America, showed them at the British Association at

Glasgow, made private trials of them before and after the meeting, but got no
good results, and appears to have been misled by the attachment of the iron
diaphragm of the receiver (which was in this instrument screwed down) into
supposing that in some way it acted differently from those shown at Phil
             In the subsequent litigation in this country it was successfully
adelphia.
maintained that Thomson's discourse and his exhibition of the American
instruments did not constitute an anticipation in this country of the telephone

as patented here for Bell by Morgan Browne, as altered by amendment and

disclaimer.

672  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN     CHAP.

    Report No. 24 on Gramme's machines gives a
curious rudimentary theory of the dynamo, which it
recommends as a subject for scientific inquiry.

    Returning to England he wrote, on Aug. 2, a

long letter to his former student, Professor John
Perry, then in Japan, who had sent him the results
of a research, by Professor Ayrton and himself, on
Contact Electricity :--

     I wish I had more time to keep up a correspondence

with you and Ayrton, and other good friends of our

laboratory corps, now in many parts of the world. Please

tell Ayrton and Dyer this from me. You might also tell

them that I have just returned from America, where I

passed a month in most interesting work at Philadelphia

where I was judge. . . . Lady Thomson was with me,

and we had a very interesting trip in America, in the

...course of which we saw Niagara Falls, Toronto, Mon
treal, Boston, and Newport.  I made soundings

from the Russia and Scythia going at 14 knots without
reducing speed. I found it perfectly easy to haul in the

wire, of which I sometimes had as much as 300 fathoms
with a 22 Ib. iron sinker and a pressure-gauge for
measuring the depth. I found bottom in 68 fathoms

...quite unexpectedly in a place where 1900 fathoms was
marked on the chart.  I have been so pulled about

from the beginning of last winter up to the present time
by pressing engagements that I have never yet succeeded

in completing for publication our joint paper on the
Capillary Surface of Revolution. I hope, however, soon to

be able to overtake the work of preparing it for press.

    He wrote again to Helmholtz :--

                                                                                Aug. 9, 1876.

    DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I wrote to you from New York,

on my arrival there at the end of May, to say that it

would give myself and my wife much pleasure if you and

xvi  IN THE 'SEVENTIES                                    673

Mrs. Helmholtz will stay with us in the University during

the meeting of the British Association to commence on

the 4th of September in Glasgow.

     I hope you received my letter and have a favourable

answer to give, or have already sent one which may be

wandering about in America (where we were rather
unfortunate in missing letters). Will you let me have a
line to say if we may expect you. You will find our

house and ourselves in Glasgow ready to welcome you

on the 4th ; but in any case don't be later than the
afternoon of the 5th, as Dr. Andrews' opening address

will be on the evening of that day.

     Hoping to see you soon I say no more just now
(except that I am at work every moment that the Lalla

Rookh permits on precession and nutation of a rotating

liquid in a rigid ellipsoidal  shell).     We shall have  a great
deal to talk over when you      come.                     truly,
                                        -- Yours always

                                        WILLIAM THOMSON.
     P.S. -- I find that the quasi -rigidity produced by

vortex motion is such that a rotating liquid enclosed in a

rigid shell giving a boundary to the liquid of any non-

spherical figure of revolution, moves approximately as if

it were a rigid body, when the shell is turned slowly

round any axis, or when any periodic motion having

a great multiple of the period of the fluid's rotation, is

given to the shell. I have verified or illustrated this by

a large globe of thin sheet copper, made slightly oblate

and filled with water. It is provided with a point to

spin on, and a stem to spin and                   spins very much
                               it,

                                               !

                                          it
like a solid top, but more steadily               Quick nutations

become rapidly extinguished, and even the slower pre

cession wears away sooner than          it  does in  a  solid top.

So that the liquid top very soon comes to " sleep "

spinning round vertical axis.
     a

   At the British Association of 1876, held at
Glasgow in the University buildings, Sir William
was in great force. He presided over the Physical

674  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                       CHAP.

and Mathematical Section, giving an address, the

first part of which was devoted to what he had

seen in America, the progress of science in her

universities and in her navy, the wonders of the
exhibition, the telephone -- " the greatest by far of

all the marvels of the electric telegraph " -- the

administration of patent law. Then he turned to

his real subject :--

    A conversation which I had with Professor Newcomb

one evening last June in Professor Henry's drawing-room
in the Smithsonian Institution, Washington, has forced me
to give all my spare thoughts ever since to Hopkins's
problem of Precession and Nutation, assuming the earth
a rigid spheroidal shell filled with liquid. Six weeks ago,
when I landed in England, after a most interesting trip
to America and back, and became painfully conscious that
I must have the honour to address you here to-day, I
wished to write an address, of which science in America
should be the subject . . . But the stimulus of intercourse

with American scientific men left no place in my mind
for framing or attempting to frame a report on American
science. Disturbed by Newcomb's suspicions of the earth's

irregularities as a time-keeper, I could think of nothing

but precession and nutation, and tides and monsoons, and
settlements of the equatoreal regions, and melting of polar

ice. Week after week passed before I could put down

two words which I could read to you here to-day ; and so
I have nothing to offer for my address but a review of
evidence regarding the physical conditions of the earth ;
its internal temperature ; the fluidity or solidity of its
interior substance ; the rigidity, elasticity, plasticity of its
external figure ; and the permanence or variability of its
period and axis of rotation.

     After this preamble came the discourse (reprinted

in vol. of the Popular Lectures,                               238) on the
     ii.
                                                           p.

xv!  IN THE 'SEVENTIES  675

Physical Condition of the Earth. Amongst other
things it contained the conclusion, that examination
of underground temperatures showed the age of
the earth to be between 90 millions and 50 millions
of years. Further, we might be quite sure that the
earth is solid in its interior, any internal spaces

occupied by lava or other liquid being small in
comparison with the whole. The hypothesis of a

rigid crust enclosing liquid violates dynamical

astronomy as well as physics ; and the tides decide
against a flexible crust covering a liquid interior.
But now thrice to slay the slain : suppose the earth

to be a thin crust of rock resting on liquid matter,
its equilibrium would be unstable ! The axis of

the earth, may in the slow subsidences of ocean-
beds and the gradual upheaval of continents,
gradually have shifted, and the poles may have

changed their positions by as much as 10, 20, 30,
or 40 degrees, without at any time causing any
perceptible sudden disturbance of land or water.
Lastly, since the date on which an eclipse of the

moon was seen in Babylon in 721 B.C., the earth

has slowed down in her rotation by n£ seconds

per annum ; while apparently, in consequence of

some settlement in the equatoreal regions, the earth,

which in the twelve years from 1850 to 1862 lost
some 7 seconds, began going faster again, and
gained 8 seconds from 1862 to 1872.

    To the ordinary business of the section Sir
William Thomson contributed no fewer than twelve

papers. These were : on Precessional Motion of

676  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

a Liquid ; on Secular Diffusion of Liquids ; on a
Case of Instability of Steady Motion; on the
Nutation of a Solid Shell containing Liquid ; on
Compass Correction ; Effects of Stress on Magne
tization ; on Contact Electricity ; on a New Form
of Astronomical Clock; on Deep-sea Soundings
in a Ship moving at High Speed; on Naval Sig
nalling ; on a Practical Method of Tuning a
Major Third ; and a Physical Explanation of the
Mackerel Sky. The last two have never been

published ; but the substance of the earlier of the

two was given in 1878 in another paper,1 and shows
two points of interest. The " revolving " character
of the sound heard in the slow beats of an imperfect
unison proves that, in a sense, the ear can perceive

phase as well as pitch in a simple tone. Secondly,

when tuning a major third by the beats heard if

the tuning is imperfect, the beats become much
more marked if at the same time a perfectly tuned
fifth is introduced. The explanation given of the
mackerel sky - was that there are two strata of
cloud one moving over the other, the slipping of
one stratum over the other producing waves, in
which portions of the air rose and fell. Difference

of temperature was not necessary ; but the essential
was that one or other of the two strata should be

very near the point of hygrometric saturation ; for
then it would be clear when it sank to its lowest
point and cloudy when it rose to its highest. The

    1 " On Beats of Imperfect Harmonies," free. Roy. Soc. Edin, ix. p. 602,
April 1878 ; reprinted in Pop. Lectures, ii. p. 394.

      1 See Sy metis's Monthly Meteorological Magazine, xi. p. 131, 1876.

xv1    IN THE 'SEVENTIES                    677

new Astronomical Clock, which was mentioned

amongst the communications to the section, had

been described in 1869 to the Royal Society, and
was now on view in the hall of Sir William's house
at the University. It had a modified dead-beat

escapement, in which the pallets were touched for
but one three-hundredth part of the beat by the
escapement tooth, and so arranged that the action

of the escapement did not stop the train of

wheels.
     Nature, of Sept. 7, 1876, contained a delightful

biography of Sir William Thomson, compiled by Dr.
J. T. Bottomley, and illustrated by Jeens's exquisite
portrait engraved on steel. It concluded as follows: --

     The following opinion of Sir William Thomson's merit

as a   worker in science   has been sent    us by Prof. Helm-
holtz                     merit, according  to my own opinion,
       :--" His peculiar

consists in his method of treating problems of mathe

matical physics. He has striven with great consistency

to purify the mathematical theory from hypothetical

assumptions which were not a pure expression of the

facts. In this way he has done very much to destroy

the old unnatural separation between experimental and

mathematical physics, and to reduce the latter to a precise

and pure expression of the laws of phenomena. He is

an eminent mathematician, but the gift to translate real

facts into mathematical equations, and vice versa, is by far

more rare than that to find the solution of a given mathe

matical problem, and in this direction Sir William Thomson

is most eminent and original. His electrical instruments

and methods of observation, by which he has rendered

amongst other things electrostatical phenomena as pre

cisely measurable as magnetic or galvanic forces, give the

most striking illustration how much can be gained for

practical purposes by a clear insight into theoretical

678 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

questions ; and the series of his papers on thermodynamics
and the experimental confirmations of several most sur

prising theoretical conclusions, deduced from Carnot's

axiom, point in the same direction."

     British science may be congratulated on the fact that
in Sir William Thomson the most brilliant genius of the

investigator is associated with the most lovable qualities
of the man. His single-minded enthusiasm for the pro
motion of knowledge, his wealth of kindliness for younger
men and fellow-workers, and his splendid modesty, are

among the qualities for which those who know him best

admire him most.

            YACHT, LALLA ROOKH,

            Sep. 1 8, 1876.

MY DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- We were very sorry not to

have you with us at the British Association, and to hear

that your not feeling well enough to come would deprive

us of this pleasure. I hope you are now quite re

established in health, and have fully enjoyed your sojourn

among the mountains.

    If you come so far as London to see the exhibition of

Physical Apparatus in Kensington, will you not come a

little farther and see us in the University or the Lalla

Rookh.

We shall probably remain living chiefly on board the

yacht till about the middle of October, soon after which

we go to London and Cambridge, where I have to attend

my annual   .Co. lle--geBemlieeveetinmgea, tyoPuertserhaolwuaseys  on the  3 1 st  of
October. .                                                         truly,

            WILLIAM THOMSON.

    In October 1876 Sir William Thomson's friend
and quondam College Tutor, the Rev. H. W.
Cookson, died, and with his death the Mastership
of Peterhouse became vacant. Some of the Fellows

desired to have Sir William Thomson as Master,

while others were in favour of the Rev. James

xvi  IN THE 'SEVENTIES                   679

Porter, his junior by three years, who for some
time had been Tutor, and was still holding the

office. At the election, which took place on

October 28, 1876, in the College Chapel according
to Statute, Porter received a majority of votes, and
became Master. On Porter's death in 1900, Lord

Kelvin was again approached with a view to his

accepting the Mastership, but he definitely declined ;
and, on the candidature of Dr. A. W. Ward being

brought to his notice, he united with his Fellows in

electing him to that office.

    In February 1877 Sir William lectured at Govan

on Telegraph and Lighthouse Signals, advocating
the teaching of the Morse alphabet in all schools, and
denouncing the " Tite Barnacles" of the Admiralty

and other Boards for opposing his plan of giving
each lighthouse a distinctive kind of flashing light,

as if sailors could not learn to distinguish long and

short flashes !

    On Feb. 18, 1877, he wrote to Mrs. King: --

     The compass causes a quite unprecedented addition

to my occupations, but it is very interesting, and as it

takes me a good deal about shipping it is not like plodding

at writing or " book work." Willy Bottomley is most

helpful, and has got on very well with some adjustments

which he has done all himself. He was down with me

from Friday morning till Saturday evening in a new ship,

Balmoral Castle, belonging to Messrs. Donald Currie & Co.,

which has been fitted out with three of my compasses.

/We went to Gareloch head on Friday evening and "swung"
early next morning to adjust compasses.  should not

have required this, but there were two other compasses

on board, and it was thought right to have the ordinary

680  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN            CHAP.

certificate of the usual adjustment, both for mine and

them.

     He wrote to Lord Rayleigh :--

DEAR LORD                                      March 8, 1877.
                                  THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW.

                RAYLEIGH -- I see by this morning's

paper that you and Lady Rayleigh are to be passengers

in the Balmoral Castle to-morrow    from Dartmouth    f--or
the Cape. There are three of my   compasses on board

an azimuth compass, and two steering compasses in the

wheel house.

    I should be very glad if you would look at them a
little and see how they behave, and much obliged if you

would write me a line from Madeira or the Cape, telling

me about them.

     The enclosed printed papers about the compass (and
a new sounding machine which has made a good beginning

already in several ships) will tell you all you may care

to know about my system of adjustment.                          a
    My wife joins in wishing you and Lady Rayleigh

pleasant passage, and I remain, yours very truly,
                                              WILLIAM THOMSON.

    On Feb. 22 he gave to the Glasgow Geological
Society a lecture on Geological Climate, which has

been dealt with in Chapter XIII. p. 536; and on

April 24 he lectured to the Institution of Engineers
and Shipbuilders in Scotland on Compass-adjustment
in the Clyde. The compass work, described in

detail in the next chapter, was assuming a commer

cial importance. The greater part of his time was
spent in White's workshops, whither he would repair

almost daily after he had finished his morning lecture
and had made the round of the laboratory. The
correspondence in which he was involved was very

xvi           IN THE 'SEVENTIES                   68 1

heavy for several years. He was also busy with
Tait revising the Treatise on Natural Philosophy,

a second edition of which was now called for. On

March 7 appeared in the Scotsman his letter on

vivisection, dealt with subsequently     (p.  1105). In

April he wrote to Hopkinson on the inductive

capacity of glass, with which the latter had experi

mented. He encouraged him to try as many dif

ferent kinds of glass as possible, and find out

whether glass of the same composition always had

the same electrostatic capacity.

    On May 15 he wrote again to Hopkinson that
he had just received splendid reports as to the

Holywood Bank Lighthouse at Belfast, for which

he had designed distinctive eclipsing light. He
showed these reports to the Elder Brethren of
              a
Trinity House, to whom he had that day gone to
                       I
explain his compass and his sounding machine.

He was to sail for Madeira in a few days in the
Lalla Rookh from Cowes.

     To Mrs. King he wrote on July from Madeira,
                                  :

                                      i
giving   Ia   narrative of the voyage --

  ...          have been busy ever since we got away from

London, at Dartmouth, Plymouth, Vigo, and at sea and

here, with Tides Report for the British Association, etc.,

etc., and the great book (T and T'), chiefly.itI  hoped

to have a large instalment for the printers off by this

mail, but the steamer has been announced suddenly to

night and goes away early in the morning, so this must

wait little longer. On the voyage, and since coming
     Ia
here, have also had much to do in trials of the sounding

machine leading to what   hope    is  to be considerable

improvement.

     VOL. II                                   H

682  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                     CHAP.

    The return voyage, from August 5 to August 7,
in thick weather, afforded a triumphant proof of the

advantage of taking flying soundings. Sir William
saw to the fitting up, on board H.M.S. Minotaur,

of his own compass and sounding machine before

he went on to Plymouth for the British Association

on August 15.                                He

    At Plymouth Sir William was ubiquitous.

read the report on the tides of Mauritius drawn up
by himself and Captain Evans. He spoke on the

magnetic susceptibility of iron ; on Laplace's tidal

equation ; on the variations of barometric pressure ;
on the marine azimuth mirror ; on his machine for

taking flying soundings ; on his depth-recorder ; on

his compass ; on the Needles lighthouse, for which
he advocated a distinctive flashing light. He added

to the gaiety of the mathematical section by raising

the question (see p. 610) whether a beetle could not
live on a meteoric voyage from Mars to the earth.

He and Dr. Samuel Haughton then delighted the

audience by talking in their respective brogues into
Graham Bell's telephone, which Mr. (now Sir
William) Preece had brought over.

    On October 26 Sir William urged on the Ship

masters' Society the need for lighthouse reform.

He wrote on the same subject to The Times on

November 12.

    In 1877 he was elected a foreign associate of the
Institut of France in place of von Baer.

     In the previous year the Italian Society of

Science, known as the De' Quaranta, had awarded

xv1  IN THE 'SEVENTIES  683

him the Matteucci prize as " the one who has
contributed the most in the world to the advance

ment of science by his writings and discoveries."
    Down to this date electric lighting, in the modern

sense, was practically unknown. Solitary arc lamps

had been used for theatre-effects, for magic-lantern
work, and, in rare cases, for lighthouses. Primitive

dynamo-electric machines, based on Faraday's great
discovery of 1831, had been built. Thomson had
even reported on Holmes's machine, which was a
feature of the 1862 Exhibition. He had never

concerned himself, however, either with electric

lamps or with electric generators. Even the
advances made in 1866-67 by Wilde, Varley,
Siemens, and Wheatstone had left him uncon

cerned. Gramme's commercial machines of 1871
had apparently not interested him till he reported
on them for the Philadelphia Exhibition of 1876.
Down to January 1, 1880, he had read no fewer

than 360 scientific papers, and taken out 1 7 patents ;
but not one of these touched even the fringe of the
question of electrical engineering, the generation of
electric energy for lighting and power. Once only,

in 1857 (see p. 397), had he ever spoken on the
possibility of using electric motive power, and on
that occasion he put it aside as impracticable. But
the question was raised in a discussion at the Insti

tution of Civil Engineers on January 22, 1878, on

Siemens's recent improvements described in a paper

by Messrs. Higgs and Brittle; and following up a
remark of Dr. C. W. Siemens on the possibility of

684  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

distant transmission, Sir William Thomson spoke.

With characteristic agility of mind he leapt forward
to the logical issue :--

     He believed that with an exceedingly moderate amount
of copper it would be possible to carry the electric energy
for one hundred, or two hundred, or one thousand electric
lights to a distance of several hundred miles. The
economical and engineering moral of the theory appeared

to be that towns henceforth would be lighted by coal
burned at the pit's mouth, where it was cheapest. The
carriage expense of electricity was nothing, while that of
coal was sometimes the greater part of its cost. The

dross at the pit's mouth (which formerly was wasted)
could be used for working dynamo-engines of the most
economical kind, and in that way he had no doubt that
the illumination of great towns would be reduced to a

small fraction of the present expense. Nothing could
exceed the practical importance of the fact to which
attention had been called : that no addition was required
to the quantity of copper to develop the electric light at
a distance. The same remarks would apply to the trans
mission of power. Dr. Siemens had mentioned to him in
conversation that the power of the Falls of Niagara might
be transmitted electrically to a distance. The idea seemed
as fantastic as that of the telephone or the phonograph
might have seemed thirteen months ago ; but what was
chimerical then was an accomplished fact now. He

thought it might be expected that, before long, towns
would be illuminated at night by an electric light pro
duced at the pit's mouth or by a distant waterfall. The

power transmissible by the machines was not simply
sufficient for sewing-machines and turning-lathes, but, by
putting together a sufficient number, any amount of horse
power might be developed. Taking the case of the
machines required to develop one thousand H.P., he
believed it would be found comparable with the cost of a
one thousand H.P. engine ; and he need not point out the
vast economy to be obtained by the use of such a fall as

xvi  IN THE 'SEVENTIES  685

that of Niagara, or the employment of waste coal at the

pit's mouth. . . .

    For lighthouses, the great adaptability of the electric
light to furnish increase of power when wanted gave it a
value which no other source of light possessed. . . .

    The value of electric light was also of great importance
in regard to public health. The detrimental character of
the fumes of gas in public buildings was well known.

There were no fumes from the electric light, and the
quantity of heat generated by it was vastly less than that
produced by gas or oil for the production of the same

light It had been stated by a previous speaker that the

gas employed in an economical gas engine to drive a
machine to produce the electric light would produce the
same light with one-fifteenth part of the combustion ; and

that meant not only increased economy, but a great

advantage in regard to public health.

   When a year later Sir William gave evidence
before the Select Committee of the House of

Commons on Electric Light (see p. 691), he re
peated much of the above, adding that the manufac
tories of whole towns might be driven by a supply of
electric power so transmitted. To such application
of electricity as motive power there was no limit ;
it might do all the work that could now be done
by the most powerful steam-engine. He advocated
that by legislation in the interests of the nation,

and of mankind, they should remove all obstacles,

such as those arising from vested interests, and
should encourage inventors to the utmost. There
would be no danger of terrible effects from the
employment of electric power, because the currents

employed would be continuous and not alternating !

686 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

    Commenting on this evidence, Nature remarked :
" This may be called a fanatical view of the electric
light " !

    About this time Sir William Thomson undertook
to write an article on " Elasticity " for the Encyclo
pedia Britannica (ninth edition). Much of the
theoretical matter had already been worked out by

him and his brother James in his Royal Society
memoir (p. 319, above), or was already embodied
in the Treatise of Thomson and Tait, but the com

pilation of descriptive matter and the collection of

numerical data involved much labour ; and new

experiments had to be made in the laboratory by

Donald Macfarlane, and by Andrew Gray and

Thomas Gray, to fill up the lacunae. To the article

was appended a reprint of the " Mathematical

Theory of Elasticity," in seventeen short chapters,

dealing with strains and stresses in homogeneous

bodies, both those that are       isotropic  (that is,
destitute of " grain " and alike  in every   direction)

and those that are aeolotropic (having definite

structure, different in different directions, as in

wood or in crystals). Following Green, he showed

that, in the general case, completely to define the

elasticity of a body there were required twenty-

one coefficients, six of which were the principal

elasticities, and fifteen others depending on the

type of strain. He classified strains, and defined the

various moduluses that specify the relation between

the strains and the stresses that produce them.

    The importance of Lord Kelvin's many con

XT.  IN THE 'SEVENTIES  687

tributions to the subject may be gathered from the
fact that in Professor Karl Pearson's standard work,

the History of Elasticity, more than one hundred
pages are devoted to them. The late Professor G. F.
FitzGerald has given the following appreciation: --

     His treatment of the elasticity of solids has largely
influenced the whole British school of elasticians, and his

fecundity in devising elastic mechanisms has emphasized
his fight against the supposed necessity that, in a simple
solid, the rigidity is three-fifths of the compressibility.

This may, no doubt, be used as a definition of a simple

solid, but in that case hardly any value can be attached to a
relation that is hardly ever of any service. Our knowledge
of the structure of matter is far too meagre for us to
deduce, a priori, such a result, and Lord Kelvin has always
advocated the scientific method of proving by induction
that, in a large number of cases, we can reduce the elastic
properties of a solid to its rigidity and compressibility, and
deduce its behaviour under stress from a knowledge of
these two qualities.

   A proof of the " Elasticity " article being sent to

Tait, it was returned with the following effusion
written on the last page. The last two verses are
by Tait, the rest by Maxwell :--

                       Count up the stresses O ;
                         Weigh well the stresses O.
                   For what's our life but just a strife
                      Where strains elicit stresses O ?

                 To Nature blind my torpid mind

                         Cared not what cork or jelly meant,
                   Nor could expound the stresses round

                      The differential element.

                     Now, better taught, maturer thought
                      That state of mind reverses O,

                  And finds great fun in twenty-one
                         Elastic moduluses O.

688  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                         CHAP.

     He's blest who dares let worldly cares
         And worldly people joy on all,

     And learns to express six types of stress,
         Each unto each orthogonal.

     Vex not my ears, ye crystal spheres,
         Your harmony's insipid O ;

     But play again that six-fold strain
         My parallelepiped O !

     Joy to the fair, be gems their care,
         Ornated trains and tresses O ;

     But leave the sage his bliss, his rage,
         Related strains and stresses O !

        Green grew the stresses O ;
        T. slew the stresses O.

     The hardest grind I e'er did find

         Was reading T. on stresses O.

    For the Encyclopedia also he afterwards wrote
the article on " Heat." It begins with the sentence,
" Heat is a property of matter which first became
known to us by one of six different senses." He
distinguished between the sense of temperature and

the tactile (or muscular) sense by which we perceive
the roughness or smoothness of things. The article
consisted of four principal sections : calorimetry,
thermometry, transference of heat, and statistical
tables. The calorimetric section is distinguished

by the special prominence given to Joule's work,
and by a comment on the circumstance that fifty
years passed before the scientific world was con
verted by the experiments of Davy and Rumford

to the rational conclusion as to the non-materiality
of heat : " a remarkable instance of the tremendous
efficiency of bad logic in confounding public opinion
and obstructing true philosophic thought." The

xr:  IN THE 'SEVENTIES                                                689

section on thermometry is marked by extreme

precision of language, and the emphasis laid on
Regnault's work with " mercury- in -glass " and

"air-in-glass" thermometers. A large amount of

space is devoted to " water -steam -pressure -ther
mometers " and sulphurous acid thermometers, by

means of which he was endeavouring to realize
actual thermodynamic instruments. He recom

mended for practical use constant - pressure gas

thermometers of nitrogen or hydrogen. Under

transference of heat he referred to Fourier's Thtorie
Analytique and its solutions of heat problems, " of

which it is difficult to say whether their uniquely

original quality, or their transcendent interest, or

their perennially important instructiveness                           for
physical science, is most to be praised."
                                                                      At

various points in the article the work done by

himself and his assistants in the Glasgow laboratory,

in the determination of constants of conductivity

and of emissivity, is emphasized. He added a
strange appendix : a compendium * of " Fourier

mathematics," admirable in itself, but thrown to

gether like mere hints to a lecturer.

     Returning to May 1878, we find Thomson busy

with A. M. Mayer's groups of floating magnets, of

which he wrote to Nature, and with a Harmonic

Analyser based on the mechanical integrator devised

by his brother James (p. 692). On May 10 he dis
coursed at the Royal Institution on the Effects

the  1 Originally written in 1850 in his mathematical     diary, and   published     in
      Quarterly Journal of Mathematics in 1856 ; finally   reprinted  in Math,    and

PHys. Papers, ii. p. 41, in 1884.

690 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

of Stress on Magnetization. On May 20 he

was addressing the Edinburgh Royal Society on
Columnar Vortices. In the same month he gave
two papers to the Physical Society of London.

At the Paris Exhibition of 1878 he was awarded

a gold medal for his compass,and sounding machine.

To the British Association at Dublin he sent three
papers : on the Tides of the Mediterranean (along
with Captain Sir F. J. Evans) ; on the Magnetism
of Ships; and on the Influence of the Straits of

Dover on the Channel Tides.
    In November 1878 we find him again urging in

The Times the question of distinguishing lights for
lighthouses. In January 1879 there appeared in
The Times an anonymous article on Aids to Safe

Navigation, from which it may be gathered that

the sounding machine had been tried on H.M.S.
Minotaur to the satisfaction of Admirals Beauchamp
Seymour and Lord Walter Kerr. The latest im

provements in the compass, the azimuth mirror, and

the deflector were mentioned and praised.

     Having, in February 1879, to lecture at the
Royal Institution on the " sorting demon " (p. 286),
of Maxwell, he stayed with his friend Sir William

Siemens, busy over the evidence which each of
them was shortly to give before the Select Com
mittee on Electric Light. Sir William and Lady
Thomson spent a week in June at the Siemenses'
country house near Tunbridge Wells.

     In his evidence before the Committee, Sir

William referred to the problem of utilizing the

xv1  IN THE 'SEVENTIES  691

Falls of Niagara, and to Siemens's proposals as
outlined in his presidential address to the Iron and
Steel Institute in 1877. He gave an estimate of
the quantity of copper suitable for the economical
transmission of power by electricity to any distance,
and applied the calculation to the case of Niagara.
He pointed out that, under practically realizable
conditions of intensity, a copper wire half an inch in
diameter would suffice to take 26,250 horse-power
from water-wheels driven by the Fall, and (losing

only 20 per cent on the way) to yield 2 1 ,000 horse
power at a distance of 300 British statute miles ;
the prime cost of the copper amounting to ;£ 60,000,

or less than ^3 per horse-power actually yielded at
the distant station.

    All through the preceding months Sir William
had been busy revising " Thomson and Tait," and

the first part of Vol. I. of the new edition appeared

in June. It was reviewed in Nature of July 3,
1879, by Clerk Maxwell -- almost the last thing

done before his lamented death. Maxwell quoted

from p. 225 the statement (obviously adopted from
Newton) that " matter has an innate power of
resisting external influences, so that every body, as

far as it can, remains at rest or moves uniformly in
a straight line." " Is it a fact," asked Maxwell, to
whom " this Manichaean doctrine of the innate
depravity of matter " seemed superfluous, " that
' matter ' has any power, either innate or acquired,
of resisting external influences ? Is a cup of tea to
be accused of having an innate power of resisting

692  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                 CHAP.

the sweetening influence of sugar because it per

sistently refuses to turn sweet unless the sugar is
actually put into it ? " Maxwell praised, as a

feature of the new edition, the greater use of the

generalized equations of motion, which had too
long been left neglected " in sanctuary of profound

mathematics " :--

     The credit of breaking up the monopoly of the great
masters of the spell, and making all their charms familiar
in our ears as household words, belongs in great measure
to Thomson and Tait. The two northern wizards were
the first who, without compunction or dread, uttered in
their mother tongue the true and proper names of those
intellectual ancepts which the magicians of old were wont
to invoke only by the aid of muttered symbols and inar
ticulate equations. And now the feeblest among us can
repeat the words of power and take part in dynamical
discussions which but a few years ago we should have left
for our betters.

    This would seem the appropriate place for a
brief mention of the very remarkable series of
machines for the performance of mathematical opera
tions which Sir William Thomson designed between
the years 1876 and 1879. His brother, Professor
James Thomson, had conceived a mechanism l--
called the disk-ball-cylinder integrator--which en
abled any desired fraction of the motion of a re

volving disc to be communicated to a cylinder
pivoted above by the intermediation of heavy
metal ball or globe which rested on the disk and

pressed against the cylinder. If the globe lay

     "An Integrating Machine, being a New Kinematic Principle," Proc.

Roy. Soc. xxiv. p. 262, 1876.
1

                         it,
                                                                                      a

xvi  IN THE 'SEVENTIES  693

actually on the centre of the disk it communicated

no motion to the cylinder. If it were shifted (by

a suitable fork) along a diameter of the disk, parallel
to the cylinder, to a point near the outer edge of
the revolving disk, it caused the cylinder to revolve
actively. In intermediate positions the amount of

motion so communicated was proportional to its
distance from the centre. On learning of this in
genious combination, Sir William immediately per

ceived that it could be applied not only to such
simple integrations as the quadrature of curves, but
to other much more difficult problems of the calculus,
the integration of products, the solution of linear
differential equations, and above all to the mechanical
performance of harmonic analysis, the process by
which, when any complicated (single-valued) periodic

function is given, it can be resolved into a series
of constituent terms which themselves are simply

periodic. The heavy arithmetical labour involved
in the ordinary calculation of the integrals might
thus be saved. Lord Kelvin's own account will be

found in the Appendix on Continuous Calculating
Machines at the end of Vol. I. Part I. of the
Thomson and Tait Treatise. The principal publi
cations on the subject were :--

     1. On an instrument for calculating the integral of the
product of two given functions. Proc. Roy. Soc. xxiv. p. 266,

1876.

    2. Mechanical integration of the linear differential equations
of the second order, with variable co-efficients. Ib. xxiv. p. 269.

    3. Mechanical integration of the general linear differential
equation of any order with variable co-efficients. Ib. xxiv. p. 271.

    4. An application of James Thomson's integrator to harmonic

694  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                        CHAP.

analysis of meteorological, tidal, and other phenomena, and to

the integration of differential equations. Jt. Soc. Edin. Proc.

ix. p. 138, 1876.

    5. Harmonic Analyser. Proc. Roy. Soc. xxvii. p. 371, 1878.
    6. On a machine for the solution of simultaneous linear

equations. Ib. xxviii. p. 111, 1879.                and tide    pre-
     7. The tide-gauge, tidal harmonic analyser,    1881.

dicter. Inst. Civil Engineers Proc. Ixv. pp. 2-25,

    The Harmonic Analyser for calculating the ele
ments of tides was constructed. An example may
be seen in the Science Collections at South Ken
sington. The machine for solving differential equa

tions did not prove to be practical.

    Clerk Maxwell died on November 5, and thus
the Cavendish chair at Cambridge became vacant.
Lord Rayleigh wrote to Sir William Thomson,
opening the question whether he would exchange

Glasgow for Cambridge. His reply was decisive :--

                                                        LONDON, Nov. 17, 1879.

DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH --Your letter was forwarded

from Glasgow and reached me here this morning.

     I feel that my destiny is fixed for Glasgow for the
rest of my life. I felt strongly attracted to Cambridge

at the time the new chair of Experimental Physics was

founded, but resolved then to remain in Glasgow. If you

could see your way to take the chair it would, I am sure,

be much for the benefit of the University, and of science

too, as the Cavendish Laboratory would give you means

of experimenting and zealous and highly instructed assist

ants and volunteers, and would naturally lead you to

more of experimental research than might be your lot,
even with all your zeal and capacity for investigation, if

                         If,

                                                             a
you remain independent.  however, you feel that in

taking the professorship you would be taking                    burden

on you to any degree uncongenial or inconvenient, or

XTI  IN THE 'SEVENTIES  695

tending to occupy time which you might more advan

tageously spend in writing or in independent research, and
that you would only hold it till some of the younger men

might show suitable qualifications, I would not advise you

to take it Hopkinson would, I believe, be a candidate

if you do not accept the chair; and with his strong mathe

matical foundation, and decided inclination for physical
science, and particularly for experimental work, I believe

he would be very successful should he be elected.
    I need not say that it would be a great satisfaction

and pleasure to myself to look forward to having you at

Cambridge should you decide to take the professorship.

     Believe me, yours very truly,

                                              WILLIAM THOMSON.

                CHAPTER XVII

    NAVIGATION : THE COMPASS AND THE SOUNDING
                                     MACHINE

GREAT as were the achievements of Lord Kelvin in

other directions, his contributions to the science and
practice of navigation were of no mean importance.

Fond of the sea from his youth, he had during his
experiences in the laying of ocean cables, and, later,

on board his own yacht, become a master in seaman
ship. " I am a sailor at heart," he declared in 1892,
in his inaugural address as President of the Institute

of Marine Engineers. His penchant for sailing is

shown by the nautical examples given as illustrations
of hydrodynamical principles in § 325 (edition of

1879) of Thomson and Tail's Natural Philosophy,

where the tendency of a body to turn its flat side
across the direction of motion through a fluid is
connected with the steering of a square-rigged ship,
the "wearing" of a fore-and-aft rigged vessel, and
the difficulty of getting a ship in a heavy gale out
of the trough of the sea ; concluding with the re
mark, that the risk of going ashore in fulfilment

of Lagranges equations is a frequent incident of
"getting under way" while lifting anchor.

                                                                  696

CH. xv.1  THE COMPASS            697

    Thomson's contributions to navigation may be

summarized under seven heads :--

     1. His Compass.
     2. His Sounding Machine.
     3. His work on Lighthouse Lights.
     4. His work on Tides, and his Tide Analyser, Tide-
Gauge, and Tide-Predicting Machines.
     5. His connection with the Admiralty on the Com
mittee upon the Designs of Ships of War (1871), and on
the Committee to review the Types of Fighting Ships

(1904).
     6. His mathematical investigations of Waves in

general.
     7. His tables for facilitating the use of Sumner's

methods of finding the place of a ship at Sea.

          THE KELVIN COMPASS

    About the year 1871 Sir William Thomson was
asked by his friend, the Rev. Norman Macleod, to

contribute an article to his newly founded magazine

Good Words. He chose as topic the mariner's

compass, and was thus caused to direct his attention

to the construction of that indispensable instrument
of navigation. He thought he had a pleasant and

easy task in describing an instrument which had

been for six hundred years in regular use by

European mariners ; but when he began he found

himself compelled to criticize, so grave were the

defects which he found in the compasses then in

use. And having noted the defects, his mind, ever

on the alert as to practical needs, turned toward

possible improvements ; and so began the work

that eventually made his name familiar to every
VOL. II                       I

698  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

nautical man. It was not till 1874 that his first
article was sent to Good Words ; and it was five

years afterwards when his second article appeared.

" When I tried," he said, "to write on the mariner's
compass, I found that I did not know nearly enough
about it. So I had to learn my subject. I have been
learning it these five years." His Good Words
articles deal, however, with Terrestrial Magnetism
in general, and with the early history of the com

pass, and do not touch his own inventions.
    Many were the defects of the old marine com

passes in vogue up to 1870. They were often
sluggish in their action, and apt to stick at times.
In the Navy they were useless during action, as the
concussion of the vessel during gun-fire put them
out of service. During stormy weather, when the

vessel was rolling, they were liable to oscillate in a
way that made them misleading. Some of these
defects arose from the weight of the moving part.
From time immemorial the compass for use at sea
has consisted of a pivoted magnet carrying affixed

above it the circular "card." This card, five

centuries ago, used to be inscribed with the eight
principal "winds," divided into halves and quarters,
so making up the thirty-two "points" that have
been in use all the world over. Until about 1840
the magnetic needle was either an oval plate or a
simple flat bar of steel drilled with a central hole to

receive the cap by which it was poised on the pin,

the ends of the bar being pointed. In 1842, as
the result of the investigations of an Admiralty

xvII  THE COMPASS  699

committee, the Admiralty Standard Compass was
adopted. In this the card was seven and a half
inches in diameter, and under it were fastened four

"needles" -- two on each side of the middle --each

needle being a long straight bar of flat clock-spring,
set with the breadth of the bar perpendicular to the

card. The card with the needles weighed about

 1600 grains, its weight being borne by a jewelled
cap fixed in the centre of the card, and resting on a
fine point of hard iridium alloy. In the merchant
marine larger compasses, with needles ten, twelve,
or even fifteen inches long, were favoured. Those
 on board the Great Eastern were eleven and a half

inches. Sailors like large compass cards, as they
are more easily read ; and the cards of larger size
are steadier in a heavy sea. As Thomson himself
pointed out, the secret of the steadiness of a large
compass lies in its period of vibration being long.
On the other hand, it was supposed that the more

powerful its magnetic moment in proportion to its
moment of inertia, the better would be the directive

action of the compass. It may be, from the point
of view of getting over friction on the pin ; but
when the ship is rolling in the ocean, the more
powerful the magnet the less steady will the com
pass be. The natural period of vibration of the

Admiralty standard compass is about nineteen
seconds, that of the ten-inch compass of the mer
chant ships about twenty-six seconds. The great
weight of the "card" led to errors due to friction
on its pivot ; and the sailors used often to kick the

700  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                              CHAP.

binnacle to make the card move, or agitated it with a

twiddling line. Worse than all this, the considerable

length of the magnets made it difficult to correct the

errors due to the magnetism of the iron of the ship.

So long as ships were made of wood, and no iron

bars or stays were permitted 1 near the compass, it

would obey fairly the directive action of the earth.

But when iron ships began to replace the "wooden

walls," it was found that the magnetism of the ships

themselves produced serious errors. Early in the

nineteenth century Flinders had introduced the
practice of " swinging " the ship, that
                  a                                                   turning
                                                                 is,
her slowly round, while the deviations of her com

pass from the true direction were observed (by

taking bearings   of a distant object) in different
positions. He     also invented the use of the
" Flinders bar,"
                    rod of soft iron placed near the

compass to correct for changes in the magnetism

of the ship due to the vertical component of the

earth's magnetism. Barlow introduced the plan of

correcting the influence of the ship's own magnetism

by placing disks of soft iron in suitable positions

near the compass. After the mathematical investi

gations of Poisson and of Airy, about 1838, methods

of correction by the use of permanent magnets and

of soft-iron globes were introduced, and Archibald

Smith had extended the mathematical investigation,

and had formulated practical rules which were

       An instance occurred when the Niagara, a wooden frigate, in laying the1
cable of 1858, was found to have deviated seriously from her course, the
many tons of iron in the cable on board having produced an unsuspected error

in her compass.

xvII  THE COMPASS  701

adopted by the Admiralty for correcting the devia
tions of the compass. The magnetism of the hull
of a ship which thus disturbs the compass, and pre

vents its pointing truly along the magnetic meridian
of the place, is partly of a permanent nature, de
pending on the position in which the ship lies during
building, and is partly of a temporary nature due to
the temporary magnetization of the iron of the ship,
depending on the direction in which she is pointing
for the moment, whether northwards or southwards,

or in some oblique position across the magnetic

meridian. As the magnetism of the ship is thus

constantly changing, the correction must be an
automatic one, namely, that effected by masses of

soft iron subject to the same influences which cause

the disturbance. To correct for the permanent

magnetism of the ship, permanent magnets were
placed in a reversed position beneath the compass-
bowl in the binnacle ; and to correct for the tempo
rary induced magnetism of the ship's hull two globes
of soft iron were placed beside the compass, one on
either hand, at the level of the compass card, as
directed by Airy, the then Astronomer- Royal.
Smaller compasses were also in use, the received

opinion being that the smaller a card is the more
correctly it points, but the larger a card the more

accurately it is read.

     In the course of his investigation Thomson dis

covered that the long magnets in common use had
several disadvantages. By being long and power
ful, they themselves induced magnetism in the

702 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

soft-iron globes used as correctors, and in some cases
created more error ' than before. Only by using much

larger globes at a greater distance could the long
needles be corrected. Thus to correct the needles

of the Great Eastern would have required globes
weighing more than a hundred tons each ! Aboard
battleships the effect of gun-fire was disastrous, com
passes with heavy cards being simply unusable.

    Thomson revolutionized all this. The needles
must be made short ; yet for accuracy of observa
tion the card must be kept large ; to diminish
friction on the pivot it must be made light ; and for
steadiness its moment of inertia must be increased

by throwing as much of the weight as possible into
the rim. He therefore built a gossamer structure
of threads on a light aluminium rim, below which
were suspended four, six, or eight slender steel
needles, and bearing the " card " printed on a circle
of thin paper with all the central part cut away.

    But all this was not effected without many stages
of experiment and trial.

    While tentatively proceeding he wrote to the
acting hydrographer, Captain (later Sir Frederick

J.) Evans, who had in 1870 published his well-

known Elementary Manual on the compass.

                                         GLASGOW UNIVERSITY, Nov. 25, 1873.

    DEAR CAPTAIN EVANS --As you have kindly excused

the trouble I have already given you, I am emboldened

to trouble you farther.

   1 See Archibald Smith and F. J. Evans in Proc. Roy.       Sec., April 18,
                                                             compass of the
1861, p. 179 ; where the errors of the "corrected" standard
Great Eastern are given as between 5° and 6°.

THE COMPASS                                     703

What is the whole weight of needle, compass card, and

magnets, of the best Admiralty compass at present made ?

Has it two needles, or four, and what are their lengths ?
I am not sure whether 6 inches is the diameter of the

card or the length of the longest of the needles. To what

degree of accuracy can you depend on the readings?

What is the greatest displacement at which the compass

will stick from the correct position when left undisturbed ?
I presume this is a small fraction of one degree.

    I am disposed to advocate, as better than anything at

present afloat, a little toy compass on gimbals which I

have seen lately, made in London, and which is sold for

1 8s. electro-silvered, or 2 is. electro-gilt.  It has one

needle and a compass card of the usual form, but only

about an inch diameter. I can read it to a fraction of a
degree ; and hitherto I have not detected any sticking
away from the correct position. I have not yet made

accurate experiments. Its smallness renders it perfectly

easy to correct perfectly the quadrantal deviation by the

Liverpool cast-iron cylinders. But I object to the movable

compass card altogether, and have made a small compass

with a pair of needles about half an inch long, and a fine

glass pointer (after the method originally given by Joule
some twenty-five years ago) which I expect will be

thoroughly satisfactory. I am arranging it with soft-iron

correctors for the quadrantal deviation, and an accurately

graduated magnetic adjustment for the semicircular devia

tion, by which I shall be able to have the compass kept

correct from day to day in all latitudes, without losing

any of the advantage of keeping a complete log of the

ship's magnetic condition. I hope to be able to bring

it with me to London and show it to you next week.

Meantime I would feel much obliged by your answer to my

questions, if convenient, by return of post ; as besides the
" biographical sketch " l of Archibald Smith, I have in

    1 In this obituary notice of January 1874 there occurs the following char
acteristic note : "When the needles of a standard compass are reduced to
something like half an inch in length, and not till then, will the theoretical
perfection and beauty, and the great practical merit, of Airy's correction of

704 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

hand a short article on the " Mariner's Compass " for Good

Words, which should also be finished by the end of this
week. -- Yours truly,
                              WILLIAM THOMSON.

Captain Evans, R.N.

P.S.--Can you also tell me the dimensions, number of

needles, and weight of the largest compass supplied to

some of these grand modern merchant ships ? From

yours and Archibald Smith's paper, I understand that

the standard compass supplied to the Great Eastern

had a card 1 2 inches diameter ! Is this correct ? Will

you also tell me, roughly, the period of vibration of a

standard compass, in London, of your ordinary pattern ?

I expect that my small compass with glass indicator will
be altogether free from " hunting " in the roughest weather

at sea ; and that the amount of heeling-over will be

directly shown by its performance during the ordinary

rolling of a ship at sea.

     Evans's reply has not been preserved ; but he
had not much sympathy with Thomson's ideas.
In the Glasgow News of March 18, 1874, we find
a brief description of the first form put forth by

Thomson :--

Sir William's compass consists of a pair of steel

needles, on the model of a needle prepared for the

galvanometer by Dr. Joule, the founder of the science

of thermodynamics. The needles are each half an inch
long, and are supported on a framework of aluminium

and glass rods, weighing in all i^ grains, and hung by a
^single fibre of unspun silk  of an inch long.

    He had two days previously shown the new
compass to the Royal Society of Edinburgh.

    Writing a week later to Froude, he complains

the compass by soft-iron and permanent magnets (which theoretically assumes
the length of the needle to be infinitely small in proportion to its distance from
the nearest iron or steel) be universally recognised, and have full justice done
to it in practice."

xvn THE COMPASS 705

" how people in all departments of the Admiralty,

except the construction department, are averse to,

and how if they could they would be impregnable

against, all suggestions from without." Evidently

he had received scant encouragement in that

quarter.

    Sir William himself, in 1885, on the occasion of

a lawsuit which arose as to his patents, gave the

following account of his invention :--

    I began to give attention to the mariner's compass

with a view to its general improvement about 1871, and

after working at the subject for five years, I took my first

patent relating to these improvements, namely, my patent

No. I339.A.D. 1876. In 1874 I communicated a mathe
matical paper to the British Association, which was pub

lished in the Philosophical Magazine for that year, in

which I showed that largeness of vibrational period is
favourable for steadiness of the compass at sea in stormy
weather. Up to that time no practical method of obtain
ing largeness of vibrational period consistently with other

essential qualities for good working, particularly smallness
enough of needles to allow the proper correction of the
compass for the deviations produced by the iron of the
ship, had been invented. After a year and a half of
experimental work on land and at sea, I succeeded in
devising a method of carrying into practicable effect the
mathematical principles of that paper, and as a result the
light compass card with small needles and radial supports
of both needles and card described in my specification,
No. 1339, 1876, has come to be very extensively used
in the Royal Navy, and in nearly all the other navies in
the world, as well as in the mercantile marine.

     Thirty-five years prior to my mathematical investiga
tion, the late Astronomer - Royal, Sir George Biddell
Airy, had shown how the errors of the compass, depend
ing on the influence experienced from the iron of the

706               LIFE OF LORD KELVIN              CHAP.

ship, may be perfectly corrected by magnets and soft

iron placed in the neighbourhood of the binnacle.

Although up to the year 1876, when my improved

compass card came into use, Airy's method for correction

had never been thoroughly carried into effect, partial

applications of it had come into general use. There was

not then, as there had been twenty years previously, the

question between the advocates of correctors and the

advocates of no correctors. The absolute necessity for

magnetic correctors, to make the compass a practically

working instrument of navigation, had, by the increased

quantity of iron used in the construction of modern ships,

been forced upon even the most extreme advocates of the

system of no correction. The only question was how

the correction could be effected in the best manner for

practical purposes. The chief drawback to the perfect

application of the Astronomer- Royal's method had been

the great size    of the needles in   the  hoisrdcinoarrreycticoonm--patshse,
which renders     one important part
                                      of

correction   of   the   quadrantal    error for all latitudes,  --by
masses of   soft  iron  placed on   two sides of the binnacles

practically unattainable, and which limits and sometimes

partially vitiates the other part of the correction, or that

which is performed by means of magnets placed in the

neighbourhood of the compass. I therefore endeavoured

to make a mariner's compass with much smaller needles

than those previously in use ; but it was only after several

years of very varied trials that I succeeded in producing

a compass with all the qualities which I found to be

necessary for thoroughly satisfactory working at sea, in

all weathers, and in every class of ship. One result at

which I arrived, partly by lengthened trials at sea in my

own yacht, and partly by dynamical theory, analogous
to that of Froude with reference to the rolling of ships,

was that steadiness of the compass at sea was to be

obtained not by heaviness of needles or of compass card,

or of added weights, but by longness of vibrational period

of the compass, however this longness is obtained. By

the term vibrational period, or the period (as it may be

xvII THE COMPASS 707

called for brevity) of a compass, I mean the time the

compass card with its needles takes to perform a complete

vibration to and fro, when deflected horizontally through

any angle not exceeding 30° or 40°, and left to itself to

vibrate freely. Thus, if the addition of weight to the

compass card improves it in respect to steadiness at sea,
it is not because of the additional friction on the bearing

point that this improvement is obtained ; on the contrary,

dulness of the bearing point, or too much weight upon

renders the compass less steady at sea, and, at the
is It it,
same time, less decided in showing changes of the ship's
     is
                   ithead than would be were the point perfectly fine and

frictionless, supposing for the moment this to be possible.

by increasing the vibrational period that the addition

of weight gives steadiness to the compass, while, on the
other hand, the increase of friction on the bearing point

both injurious in respect to steadiness, and detrimental

in blunting or breaking down, and boring into the cap,
                           it

and so producing sluggishness after short time at sea.              Ia

If weight were to be added to produce steadiness, the

place to add               would be at the very circumference of
is
                   is
                       it
the card. The conclusion at which                                       arrived was that

no weight in any case to be added beyond that which

    necessary for supporting the card, and that with small

enough needles to admit of the complete application of

the Astronomer-Royal's principles of correction. The

length of period required for steadiness at sea                         to be
                                                                        is
obtained without sacrificing freedom from frictional error,
                                                                                 it
by giving large diameter to the compass card, and by
1

               aa
                 it a

                                         a

                                               it it
                                                                is
throwing to its outer edge as nearly as possible the whole

mass of rigid material which must have to support it.
    In the compass set forth in my specification No. 1339,

876, these qualities are attained by supporting the outer

edge of the card on thin rim of aluminium, and its inner

parts on series of spokes or radial threads stretched from

the rim to a small central boss of aluminium, spokes, as

were, of wheel. The card itself of thin strong paper,

and all the central parts of are cut away, leaving only

enough of to show conveniently the points and degree

708  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

divisions of the compass. The central boss consists of a
thin disc of aluminium, with a hole in its centre, which
rests on the projecting lip of a small aluminium inverted
cup mounted with a sapphire cap, which rests on a fixed
iridium point. The weight of the central boss aluminium

cap amounts in all to about five grains. It need not be

more for a 24-inch than for a lo-inch compass. For the
lO-inch compass the whole weight on the iridium point,
including rim, card, silk thread, central boss, and needles,
is about 1 80 grains. The limit to the diameter of the
card depends upon the quantity of soft iron that can be
introduced without inconvenient cumbrousness on the two
sides of the binnacle to correct the quadrantal error.

     With the small needles of my new compass, the com
plete practicable application of the Astronomer -Royal's
principles of correction is easy and sure ; that is to say,
correctors can be applied so that the compass shall point
correctly on all points, and these correctors can be easily
and surely adjusted at sea, from time to time, so as to
correct the smallest discoverable error growing up, whether
through change of the ship's magnetism, or of the mag
netism induced by the earth, according to the changing
position of the ship.

    In 1876 he endeavoured to interest the aged
Astronomer- Royal in his invention, and sent him a
compass, followed by the accompanying letter :--

                                                                              March 3, 1876.

    MY DEAR SIR GEORGE -- I thought you would be inter

ested in my new compass. The objects I had in view were
steadiness of indication at sea, and suitableness for the
application of your method of correcting in all its com
pleteness. Your description of an accurate method of
finding the amount with direction of the permanent
magnetic force has not, so far as I know, hitherto been
realized, even in experimental arrangements on board
ship. This I propose to carry out in connection with my
new compass and the apparatus you saw ; it is nearly

zvn           THE COMPASS                                   709

complete, though it was not attached to the rough illus
trative instrument which I sent to you on Saturday.

    If you had allowed the instrument to remain at the
              I should
Observatory             have called  opnoiMntosndaraey,:--anidste, xNpelaeindeleds
all parts of  my plan.    The main

so small that the distances of their different parts from the

nearest parts of the soft-iron correctors differ by amounts

which may be neglected as infinitely small in comparison

with the distances themselves. 2nd, Soft-iron correctors

so small that the distances of their different parts from the

permanent magnet correctors may be regarded as infinitely

small in comparison with the whole distance.                3rd,

Accurately graduated adjustment of the permanent cor

recting magnets.
     The monstrous size of the needles used in modern

great merchant steamers would require tons (I might say
hundreds of tons) of soft iron, to fulfil conditions above,

with sufficient accuracy to give a good practical result for

your correction for the quadrantal error.

    It is fortunate that the very small needles which I

have introduced for the sake of conditions i and 2 have

also a very great advantage in respect to the mechanical

qualities of the compass over any make of larger size.

The compass I sent to you is an illustration of what I
propose for a standard compass. It is read with great

ease to a quarter of a degree, which is a good deal closer

than is required or can be usefully practised at sea.

    I gain greatly in mechanical quality, of course, by doing

away with the fly card, and (at all events for a standard

compass) this without any sacrifice of convenience. I

intend to give my compass a thorough trial at sea. Shall

I let you see it when complete before trial at sea ? I

shall also, if you desire give you complete statement
                        it,
                                                a

                                              I
of the details of observation by which propose to find

the data required for varying the adjustment of the

magnets so as to keep the    compass  correct      at  all  points.

-- Believe me, yours truly,

                                     WILLIAM THOMSON.

     Sir George Airy.

710 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

    The compass was sent by the hand of the late
Mr. J. Munro, one of his pupils, who tells of its
reception :--

One day, I remember, Sir William Thomson desired

me to take his new compass to Sir George Airy at the

Royal Observatory, Greenwich Park, and ask him what

he thought of it. A crude, experimental instrument,

mounted on gimbals in a wooden box, it nevertheless con

tained the essential features of the improvement ; and
after I presented it to Sir George, he looked intently at it

for some time, apparently in deep thought, and simply

said, " It won't do." When I returned to Sir William,

and told him  of this verdict, he ejaculated, with a trace
              " So much for the Astronomer - Royal's
of contempt,
          "
opinion
         !

     One objection urged by the Admiralty officials
against his compass was that the permanent magnets

were not fixed, but required to be adjusted in posi

tion. He pointed out in reply that the supposed

permanent magnetism of the ship, which they were

designed to correct, was itself subject to change.

And he told how, on H.M.S. Thunderer, in August
1877, when H.R.H. the Prince of Wales (now our
King) visited her to watch gun practice, the firing

of the guns was found to derange her standard com

pass, demonstrating the necessity for means of

adjustment of the correcting magnets.
    Time and again did Sir William bring before the

scientific world, and before nautical men, his improve

ments. They were praised, they were criticised,

they were condemned by the prejudiced, but they

were received with deadly apathy by the Tapers
and Tadpoles of official circles. At the British

                    THE COMPASS               ;n

Association of 1876 at Glasgow he read a paper on
" Compass-correction in Iron Ships." In April 1877
he addressed the Institution of Engineers in Scotland

on " Compass -adjustment on the Clyde." At the

British Association the same year he described a
Marine Azimuth Mirror for use with his compass,

and gave another communication on the mariner's

compass, with correctors for iron ships. Lord Walter
Kerr, after trying a borrowed compass on H.M.S.
Minotaur, wrote in September that he had suggested

to the Government to purchase it. Gradually the

shipowners began to realize the advantages of the

new compass as the captains of the vessels on which

they had been tried sent in favourable reports. Even

foreign Governments began to give them a trial.

Still the British Admiralty proved impervious. In

1878 Sir William Thomson addressed to the then

First Lord, the Rt. Hon. W. H. Smith, M.P., the
following letter :--
                                                   April ii, 1878.
SIR -- I  take the    liberty  of calling
                                              your attention to my

compass and sounding machine, and asking you kindly to
consider the question of introducing them into the Royal

Navy for practical use.

     The compass has been now amply tested at sea in up
wards of 60 large iron steamers and sailing ships.1 After
eighteen months of very varied experience in all seas and
all weathers it has, as the accompanying printed reports

show, been found to work well, and to possess some con

siderable advantages over the other forms of compass
hitherto in use. After six months' trial on board the

German ironclad Deutschland, a second has been ordered

by the German Imperial Admiralty, who have also recently

                         1 I enclose a list.

712             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

ordered two more sounding machines after a short trial of

a first one. The Russian Admiralty have recently ordered

both compass and sounding machine. The compass has

also been supplied to the Italian Navy and to the Brazilian

ironclad Independenzia (now H.M.S. Neptune).
     From results of trials on board ships of war firing

heavy guns I have recently made some improvements
in my compass, by which I hope it will be rendered

thoroughly available for the navigation of a ship of war

in action, and will so have a great advantage over the

compasses hitherto in use. My compass on board H.M.S.

Minotaur is not provided with these improvements, as the

experience on which they are founded has been acquired

since the time when it was purchased by the Admiralty,
but if its action under gun-fire is not found altogether

satisfactory it will be easy to add them to it without

disturbing its adjustment on board.

I venture to suggest that more extensive trials of my

compass in the Navy might now properly be made, and

particularly that it should be tried in ships of several

different classes both as an azimuth compass for ordinary

navigation and as a between-decks steering compass for

use in action.

The enclosed printed reports regarding my sounding

machine leave no doubt as to its general usefulness for

ships of all classes, and from them it may be seen that in

ships of war in trying circumstances it might be of vital

importance. You will not, therefore, I trust think me too

sanguine in expressing the hope that the British Admiralty

will early resolve to have  it adopted for general use in  the
                            servL WILLIAM THOMSON.
Royal Navy. --Your ob1-

    The First Lord's reply was non-committal, but a
year later Thomson made a proposal to put one of
his compasses at the disposal of the Admiralty for
trial --at his own expense. This offer produced the
following response :--

xvII                THE COMPASS                               713

                                           ADMIRALTY, S.W., 23 May 1879.

   SIR -- With reference to your letter of the 3Oth ultimo,

I am commanded by my Lords Commissioners of the

Admiralty to inform you that your offer to supply one of

your improved compasses at your own expense for trial

in any ship or ships in which their Lordships may give

orders to have it tried, and to allow it to remain on trial

without charge as long as they may desire, is accepted.
     2. I am further to acquaint you that the first suitable

opportunity for a trial of this machine will be taken

advantage      of,  and a     further communication will   be made
to you on      the  subject.                               servant,
                              -- I am, Sir, your obedient

                                 ROBERT HALL.

Sir William Thomson,

      The University, Glasgow.

      As, however, Sir William in his summer cruises

on his yacht made the acquaintance of influential

naval officers, there arose gradually a movement

within the Navy for the adoption of the compass.

Amongst those who warmly advocated the Thomson

compass, and indeed became its champion against

the official party who opposed its introduction, was

Captain Fisher (now Admiral of the Fleet Lord
Fisher). When H.M.S. Wye grounded in the Red

Sea the court-martial declared that this would not

have occurred had she been fitted with Thomson's

compass and sounding machine. One of the cap
tains, writing of this to Thomson, declared that in

advocating his inventions at headquarters they had

to approach the subject like burglars approaching

a safe.

      Twice Sir William brought his compass before

the Royal United Service Institution, on February 4,
      VOL. II
                                                           K

714  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

1878, and again on May 10, 1880. On the second

occasion he described certain mechanical improve
ments for combating unsteadiness due to vibrations
caused by the ship's engines ; a device for ascertain

ing the heeling error ; and improved adjustments
of the correcting magnets in the binnacle. In the
discussion which followed Thomson referred to a

trial of his instrument on the Glatton in 1878, when

it had remained perfectly steady during gun-fire.

It was now on trial on the Northampton by order
of the Admiralty.

   At the bombardment of Alexandria on July u,

1882, were two ships, H.M.S. Inflexible and H.M.S.

Alexandra, that had been fitted with Thomson's

compass. Captain (afterwards Admiral Sir Charles
F.) Hotham, who commanded the latter ship, reported
the superiority of Thomson's compass over other

patterns, while Captain Fisher (now Admiral of the
Fleet Lord Fisher), of the Inflexible, stated that

during the bombardment this compass was particu
larly useful for steering a course, as it was the

only compass that would stand the tremendous

concussion caused by firing the eighty-ton guns.
 He reported it far superior to any other compass
both with regard to its steadiness and general
reliability, and had had perfect satisfaction with

it also on board H.M.S. Northampton.
     It was, however, not until November 1889 that

 the then superintendent of the Compass Depart
 ment of the Admiralty, Captain E. W. Creak,
 F.R.S., could write to Sir William that he had

XVII THE COMPASS 715

received official intimation that his lo-inch compass
was to be adopted in future as the standard compass
for the Navy, and that it was to be at once placed
on twenty ships.

                                          THE KELVIN COMPASS.

    The standard form of Thomson's compass, as
adopted by the Admiralty in 1889, is depicted in the
accompanying figure. Eight small needles of thin
steel wire from 3^ to 2 inches long, weighing in all
54 grains, are fixed (like the steps of a rope-ladder),
on two parallel silk threads, and slung from a light

716                       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN        CHAP.

aluminium circular rim of 10 inches diameter by

four silk threads, through eyes in the four ends of

the outer pair of needles. The entire weight is

about 170 grains. It has double the period and

one-seventeenth of the weight of the lo-inch com

pass previously in common use, and its frictional

error is not more than one-quarter of a degree.

The following more recent letter to Admiral

of the Fleet Lord Fisher deals with the modern
method of adjustment without the labour of " swing
ing " the ship :--

                                                           GLASGOW, March 3/92.

DEAR FISHER -- In answer to your question I enclose

a paper giving some details as to 50 ships in which the

compass adjustment has been performed solely by means

of the deflector.1 This was 50 out of 1 80, the adjust
ment having been done by sights in the other 1 30 of that
set The proportion 50 out of 180
                                         is          should think,
                                                is,

                                                I
pretty nearly our average for deflector. Ships supplied

with my compass are generally adjusted under weigh in

any convenient place where there         sufficient sea room.

In such places            if it    rarely the case that we have objects

on shore of known bearings available for the adjustis

ment. So, unless we get the sun, we always adjust by

deflector and                    the sun fails during an adjustment, we
is
          it

                       ;
finish by the deflector. The adjustment by deflector

quite thoroughly as trustworthy as by sights of the sun

or by shore bearings and ship never waits for sights;a
after her compasses have been adjusted by deflector. In

many cases, however, after the adjustment has been com
pleted by deflector, bearings of the sun have been got,

and the ship swung to verify the adjustment on all points.

An error of i° on some of the courses may be found but
1

                                                                        is

                                                                                                                                            ;
for all practical purposes the compass               found correct.

        The deflector and the azimuth mirror are described in Popular Lectures,
iii. p. 322 and p. 329.

THE COMPASS  717

Residual magnetism and magnetic sluggishness affect ad

justment by sights quite as much as by deflector. All sizes
and classes of ships are adjusted by the deflector, includ

ing large passenger steamers of the P. & O., of American
lines, Cape mail ships, and cargo steamers, and yachts.
The adjustment is done by day or night indifferently, in
fog and in clear weather, or in a gale of wind or rain or
snow, according as circumstances require ; and immense
savings of money are made for the shipowners and builders
by avoidance of otherwise unnecessary detentions. The
benefit to our Navy from the use of the deflector would
be relatively much greater if the time ever came when
it should be engaged in large action of war. However

battered a ship may be, or however suddenly required out
of port after repairs, an hour and a half would always

quite suffice to make quite sure of her compass. A ship
with us is never detained on account of weather for the

adjustment of her compasses. --Yours very truly,

                                                                      KELVIN.

    P.S. -- Our adjustments here are generally done by a

compass adjuster, who learned from Mr. W. Bottomley and
myself in the course of a few days. A week's instruction

and practice is quite enough to allow any capable adjuster
to adjust by deflector in a thoroughly trustworthy manner.
No navigating officer in the Navy would be unable to
learn thoroughly in a few days; and, once learned, its use
would let him always in any part of the world correct his
compass with perfect confidence.

    From the first, Lord Kelvin's compasses were

manufactured by the firm of James White, Optician,
of Glasgow, in which business he became the leading

partner. As subsequent improvements were made

in detail further patents were taken out to protect

the invention. This, however, did not prevent

imitations more or less close in design from being

put on the market by rival firms of compass makers

718 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

involving the vexations of legal proceedings to protect
the patent rights. In the principal action, Thomson v.

                                          Moore, his fundamental

                             patent was triumphantly

                             vindicated. Plate IX.

                             (Frontispiece Vol. II.)

                             depicts Lord Kelvin

                             standing beside his latest
                             compass. In this portrait

                             he is actually taking a
                             bearing by means of the
                             azimuth mirror, and is

                             shading the side light
                             with his hand so as to

                             get a reading of the
                             scale. In the accom

                             panying illustration is

                             shown the form of the

                             compass, with the two
                             soft-iron corrector globes

LORD KELVIN'S COMPASS AND    placed one on each side
   BINNACLE. External View.  at the level of the card,

and with lighting by an electric lamp beneath the

compass bowl.

    In recent years the Admiralty has shown pre
ference for another sort of compass in which the

whole card floats in liquid, and for ships of war it
began to supersede Lord Kelvin's form after the
end of 1906 ; the principles of correction remain,
however, the same.

                 THE SOUNDING MACHINE  719

                   THE SOUNDING MACHINE

    To the Society of Telegraph Engineers in April
1874, Sir William Thomson communicated a paper

on " Deep-Sea Sounding by Pianoforte Wire," in

which he described his first success on board the

Laila Rookh in June 1872, when he sounded to a

depth of 2700 fathoms with a 3o-pound sinker hung
from a three-mile line made up of lengths of piano
forte steel wire spliced together. He recounted
further soundings made on the Hooper in 1873 off
the east and north coasts of Brazil by the same

simple means, and described the device of an

auxiliary hauling-in wheel which took off the chief

strain from the sounding wheel, which must itself
be very light. He pointed out the advantage pre
sented by this plan over the old method of sounding
with a hempen rope, its more rapid operation, its

compactness, but, above all, the fact that it may be

used for flying soundings, since in its use it is not

necessary that the ship be stopped.

    On November 11, 1875, Sir William delivered a
public lecture1 on "Navigation" in the City Hall
at Glasgow. In this lecture he described various

nautical instruments, his own deep - sea sounding

apparatus, and Napier's pressure - log. He said
little about his compass, but spoke of methods of
navigation, and of the use of the globes. Referring

to a terrestrial globe on the platform, he told his

1 Published 1876 by W. Collins and Co. under the auspices of the Glasgow
                               Reprinted in Popular Lectures and Addresses,
Science Lectures Association.

vol. iii. p. I.

72O LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

audience that he had registered a vow to lose no
opportunity of speaking against the neglect of the

Use of the Globes. A celestial and a terrestrial

THE SOUNDING MACHINE.

A, Rim holding wire coil.  B, Winding drum.
C, Clamp for rim.          G, Sinker enclosing gauge.

globe ought to be found in every school of every
class. The pressure-log, an ingenious device for
indicating the speed of a ship by causing the rush

of water against the stern to force up a column of

xvii  THE SOUNDING MACHINE  721

 liquid in a tube, occupied attention for several years,
 and was the subject of lengthy correspondence
 between Thomson and Wm. Froude down to the

end of 1878.

    A sounding machine was put on board the

 Cunarder Russia in the summer of 1876, when
Sir William was on his way to the Centennial

 Exhibition at Philadelphia, and he took flying

soundings while going at 14 knots, and found
bottom in 68 fathoms, quite unexpectedly in a place

where 1900 fathoms were marked on the chart. At

the British Association meeting the same autumn
he expressed his opinion that the old system of
sounding by hemp ropes had done its last work on

board the Challenger.

    In connection with this use of steel wire the

story is told that Joule, visiting White's shop, found
Sir William surrounded by coils of wire which he

was inspecting, and inquiring their use was told
they were pianoforte wire for sounding. " For

sounding what note?" inquired Joule. "The deep
C," was Sir William's reply.

     Nevertheless, officialdom remained unconvinced

and apathetic. In lectures to the United Service

Institution in 1880, 1881, and 1884, he still con

tinued to advocate the sounding machine and the

compass, and in the end his persistency won the

day. A letter which he addressed to Captain
Wharton (afterwards Sir William J. L. Wharton,

Admiral and Hydrographer) is a contribution to

history.

722    LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                          CHAP.

DEAR   CAPTAIN        WHARTON --I  send            Nov. 26/88.
                                                by book post,

along with this, a volume of the Society of Telegraph
Engineers' Journal, in which you will see on p. 207 de
tails including latitude and longitude of my first piano

forte wire sounding.

On page 2 1 8 you will see some evidence of how anxious

I was to give freely all the assistance I could to the

Admiralty in respect to the deep-sea survey soundings.
And on pages 223-228 you will see that I was also
anxious to make known to the public the possible use of

steel wire for flying soundings in ordinary navigation.

My letter to The Times in May 1875 about that time,
on the loss of the Schiller on the Scilly Islands, was

another attempt to get the public to accept my naviga

tional soundings gratis. When I saw nothing come of
all this, I commenced a voyage to New York and back

in the summer of 1876, making a serious effort to realise

the thing for practical use myself, and at the end of 1 876
I took my first sounding-machine patent. But you see
from my beginning in June 1872, of which I wrote a

particular account to the Hydrographer (Sir George
Richards) in July, I all along for more than four years
showed my hand and kept back nothing, in letters and

in conversation and publications, both to the Admiralty
and general public ; and ultimately I was obliged to take
a patent and work the thing out myself if the public was

to get the benefit of it at all.
    The enclosed little article from the Phil. Mag. for Nov.

1 874  shows that I began similarly in respect  to  the compass.
From   that time till the end of the summer     of
                                                    1 875 I tried,

on shore and afloat, to realize the desideratum described

in the marked passages at the end of the article, and showed
everything I was doing, from time to time, to Sir Frederick

Evans. I was most anxious that the Admiralty should

take it up, and I should have been most pleased to help

freely in any way possible, and to work hard to bring about

the result. I could not succeed in getting the slightest

encouragement, or in raising any interest whatever in the

XVII    THE SOUNDING MACHINE                                                                    723

subject ; and at last in despair I resolved, about the end

of 1875, to work it out myself and take a patent.

     Forgive this long yarn, but I thought you might like

to know that I have from the very first been always most

anxious to do anything  OI fpfiocses.i--blyBeclaienvein    perfect unison
with the Hydrographic                                    me, yours very

truly,                  WILLIAM THOMSON.

    An important feature of the sound

ing machine was the dynamometric brake
applied to the paying-out wheel, to regu
late the movement ; it had first been

patented by Thomson in 1858 as an
adjunct to machinery for laying sub
marine cables. The first form of depth-
recorder attached to the sinker con
sisted of a glass tube closed at the top,
containing air which was compressed as

the water rose in it higher and higher
under the increasing pressure ; the
amount of compression being registered
by the use of chemicals, ferroprussiates
at first, chromate of silver later, giving
indications by change of colour. In the
final form of depth-recorder the degree
of compression was indicated by a piston
which was forced into a cylinder con
taining air, and a marker pushed along
the piston recorded the depth mechani

cally.

Lord Kelvin used often to tell how                                                              RECORDER.

in August 1877, returning from Madeira                                                                 Piston!
                    in
in the Lalla Rookh                                                                         D'.steered by
                        thick weather, he

724  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

soundings taken every hour, right up to the Needles,

having no sight of land except just a glimpse of the

high cliffs east of Portland.

    Writing in December 1892 to Captain Lecky,
Lord Kelvin remarks :--

   What a sad disaster that was, of the Roumania. If

they had used my sounding machine to get bottom when
they came within 1 oo fathoms, and then kept it going once
every half-hour, they never would have come into danger.
On all those coasts (Finisterre to Cape St. Vincent) the
danger line is outside 50 fathoms, and safety is to be had
by keeping the machine going (two men at it) once an
hour, or once every half-hour, or more frequently when

circumstances require it. It is wonderful how slow ship

owners and ship-insurers, not to say ship-officers, are to
see that they must not only have the machine on board,

but must use it systematically, and that if they do so,
such an accident as stranding on any of our European
coasts, whether outside, on the Atlantic, or in the English
or Irish Channels, or in the North Sea, could never happen

to a non-disabled ship.

     When the battleship Montague was lost in 1906
on Lundy Island, he was even more emphatic in

denouncing the folly of captains who neglect such

simple means of safety.

                          LIGHTHOUSE LIGHTS

    The furnishing of lighthouses with distinctive
lights that should prevent them from being mis
taken one for another was a matter of keen interest
to Sir William Thomson during these years.
Flashing and revolving lights were indeed known ;
and some attempt had been made to give them a

                 LIGHTHOUSE LIGHTS                                            725

distinctive character by assigning to them slower or

quicker periods of revolution. His principal contri

butions to the subject are to be found in an article on
" Lighthouses of the Future " in Good Words, March

1873 ; a lecture on the Distinction of Lighthouses,
delivered on October 24, 1877, to the Shipmasters'

Society, reported in The Times, October 31 ; and
a paper on " Lighthouse Characteristics," read at

the Naval and Marine Exhibition at Glasgow,

February n, 1881, read also and discussed at the

Society of Arts, March 2, 1881, and reprinted in

Vol. II. of his Popular Lectures and Addresses.

In the first of these he drew attention to Babbage's

suggestion of 1851 of an occulting light, and Captain
Colomb's system of signalling by flashlights in the
Navy, introduced about 1867. He now proposed

that lighthouses should flash out, in short and long

                 is,

                                      :

                                             a
flashes, that    in dots and dashes, some distinctive

letter of the Morse code. The letter to Prof.

Peirce (p. 659 above) gives history of his efforts.
The following letter, addressed to Dr. John Hopkin-

son, defines his plan --

                                                                Jany. loth, '75.

DEAR HOPKINSON -- have only this moment fallen
                 4
                     aa

                           I

                                                I
upon paper on group-flashing lights which you had
I

              a
kindly sent me, possibly during my absence in summer.

see on page      mistake which                                                am sure you will

gladly know to be mistake. You say that the scheme

proposed by myself has not received any practical recog

nition. It has been in action on the Holywood Bank

Lighthouse since the first of Nov. The signal there

adopted          two short eclipses and                                       long, making the
                 is
                                                                           a

726            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                CHAP.

letter U (dot, dot, dash) of the Morse alphabet. It is

exceedingly well liked by the pilots and other practical

men who have had experience of it.

Since the time of our last correspondence I have

modified my plan from short and long flashes to short

and long fixed lights.

    I have also a very simple and durable mechanism for

producing the same kind of distinction by longer and

shorter extinction of gas. I have this going for the sake

of illustration in my lecture room for several hours every

evening at a window whence it is visible to a considerable

part of Glasgow. It is probable it will soon be applied

to the Cumbrae Light, Claugh Lighthouse, and a new

lighthouse to be made on the Clyde on Roseneath patch.

I do hope you will endeavour to move the Trinity Board
to look into my proposal. If they will do so I feel per

fectly confident that they will adopt it. You will see

that it is very much simpler than the group -flashing

lights which form the subject of your paper.
    I am quite aware, however, of the value of the system

of horizontal condensation used in the ordinary revolving
lights and in the group-flashing lights. So of course I

don't want to urge that they should be given up in every

case. The great power of the ordinary revolving light

will no doubt secure its being always used at some of the
eclipses. My present proposal is to apply to every light

which is at present a fixed white light, a simple eclipsing

apparatus which shall make one, two, or three eclipses,

each eclipse to be for a certain duration, about half a

second, or three times as long as that for the dash, and the
successive eclipses of the signal are to be separated by
half a second interval. The light is to burn brightly and

undisturbed for five or six seconds, then is to follow the

                                    then the light                                  to
               a
                                              it,

                                                       a
                                                                           is

                                                                                is
successive eclipses distinguishing

burn brightly for five or six seconds again, and so on

periodically.

The Holywood Bank Light was         fixed oil light

distinguished by red shade. The red shade                                         now

removed, and the eclipses are made in an exceedingly

xvII LIGHTHOUSE LIGHTS 727

simple manner by a revolving ring carrying screens.
Nothing can possibly be more simple than the mechanism,
or more easy to apprehend than the result. It can never

be then for the reason you stated that my plan shall be
not applied to every one of the present most important

kinds of lighthouses. To promote its usefulness, however,

it is absolutely essential that the period be diminished to
a small fraction of what it ordinarily is. This has now,

I am happy to say, been done for the Toward Point
Light, in accordance with my recommendation. The

period was as usual about a minute. It is now about
ten seconds. Any one who has looked for one of the

ordinary revolving lights at sea, will agree with me as to
the painfully unsatisfactory character of the fifty seconds
(or longer) waiting for a flash and the chance of missing

it altogether, when it does come. A revolving light of a

minute or of a longer period is in point of fact much less
easily " picked up " in all circumstances of difficulty,
particularly in bad weather, rainy and stormy, than a
fixed light of much smaller intensity.

    In his lecture of 1877 Sir William advocated the
superiority of distinctions made by intermittent

flashes, or by revolving beams of light rather than

by colours, which might be deceptive in fog. He
instanced his own Craigmoor Light in the Firth of

Clyde, which flashed with a twice -repeated long-
short signal, or --
                     · , which was, in fact, the

telegraphic letter C. Also the Holywood Bank
Light at Belfast Lough, which gave --· · (that
a
                                a

                                       a
                                                                                  :
                                                                                                 ;

                                                                                              is,
dot, dot, dash) as its signal. In the 1881 lecture he

classified the characteristic qualities of all light

houses under three heads Flashing Lights, Fixed

Lights, and Occulting or Eclipsing Lights. He

pointed out that fixed light may be mistaken for

masthead light of steamer that the Admiralty

728          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

List for 1875 gives about 100 flashing lights around
the British Islands, all alike except in that they

vary in duration from one flash in four seconds to

one flash in two minutes. A new and important

departure had been made in 1875 by the intro
duction by Dr. John Hopkinson of a group-flashing
light on the Royal Sovereign shoal, giving successive
groups of flashes, with three flashes in each group.
But three dots was simply letter S of the Morse
code. On this Sir William expressed the hope
that the ignorance of the Morse code by sailors '

would prove no obstacle. "The great thing," he

said, " is to find how lights may be most surely and

inexpensively rendered distinctive, so that no sailor,
educated or uneducated, highly intelligent or only
intelligent enough to sail a collier through gales
and snowstorms and fogs all winter, between New

castle and Plymouth, may know each light as soon

as he sees it without doubt or hesitation." Then

he turned to statistics, and noting that, of the 623
lights in the British list, 490 were fixed, 1 1 2 flashing,
and 21 occulting or eclipsing, he urged that the
superior apparent brilliancy of a flashing light was
dearly bought because of the great diminution of

usefulness to the sailor in the intervening periods
of darkness. What was gained in brilliancy was
lost in time of visibility. He, therefore, advocated

1 " Sailors, we may hope, are happily ignorant of this truth, otherwise the

proverbial   captain of the collier would be calling out to his chief officer,
' Bill, was
             that a S, or a I, or a H, or a E ? ' Bill, if he was well up in
udnradmerasttiacndl.i'ter"ature, would reply, ' Captain, them is things as no fellow can

xvII    TIDES     729

long periods of illumination broken up by short
groups of eclipses or occultations on some character
istic plan. He had himself erected on the college
tower of the University of Glasgow a trial eclipsing
light giving the signal --· · (dot, dash, dot), or

letter R of the Morse code, by eclipses ; the group

lasting seven seconds, with thirteen seconds of un

interrupted light between. Finally, he advocated
the adoption of similar group signals for the sounding
of sirens.

     During the summer of 1880 he had much corre
spondence with the Commissioners of Irish Lights,
the authorities of Trinity House, and the Clyde
Commissioners, in which he urged the adoption of
distinctive characteristics on this plan.

        TIDES

      Tidal phenomena often occupied Lord Kelvin,

and he gave much thought to their elucidation.
Perhaps the best account of his work on them is

that to be found in the lecture which he delivered

at Southampton in 1882, reprinted in Vol. III. of

his Popular Lectures. He carefully pointed out the

distinction between waves due to the action of wind,
sudden " tidal waves " caused by earthquakes, and

true tides due to the attraction of the sun and moon.

He also discovered, from the reduction of tidal

observations, a great swell of the ocean from one

hemisphere to the other and back again, once a year,

and explained it as the result of the sun's heat. He

attached great importance to systematic measurement

VOL. H         L

730  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

of the rise and fall of the sea at different ports ;
and himself devised a form of Tide - gauge of
great simplicity. The theory of the tides had been
worked out many years before by Laplace and Airy,
who had shown that if the seemingly irregular

variations of rise and fall were observed at any port

for a considerable time, the observations could be

reduced or analysed by very elaborate mathematical
calculations into a number of constituent tides ; and,

if these have been found, it is possible to predict the

height of the tide at any future time, for the same

place, by computing the separate constituents and
adding them together. Down to about 1876 the
only means of analysing the various components
which go to make up the complicated variations of

rise and fall was a very laborious arithmetical process

of harmonic analysis. This was investigated and
carried out from 1867 onwards by a Tidal Com
mittee of the British Association, formed at Sir

 William's instigation, and by the Indian Govern
 ment for various ports in India. But in 1876 Sir
 William Thomson discovered a mechanical means

 of performing this. by the ingenious Tidal Harmonic
 Analyser, in which use was made of James Thom
 son's disk-globe-cylinder integrator, mentioned on
 p. 692. The first working model had five of the
 disk - globe - cylinders, and served for finding the
 terms of first and second orders only of the harmonic

 series. A larger instrument is used at the Meteoro

 logical Office. Besides these a synthetic instrument

 for use as a Tide - Predicter (now in use at the

xvII  ADMIRALTY COMMITTEE  731

 National Physical Laboratory) was constructed, in

which the various periodic components of rise and

fall, as observed by the Gauge, and computed
by the Harmonic Analyser, could, by an ingenious

mechanism, be recombined for any future epoch.

The entire tides of any port can be predicted by
means of the instrument, which in twenty - four

minutes draws the curve showing the rise and fall
for a whole year to come. In 1876 Sir William
showed the first model of this instrument, jjat the

Exhibition of Scientific Apparatus at South Ken
sington, to Queen Victoria. The best account of
this series of instruments is to be found in the
Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers,
vol. Ixv., March 1, 1881, together with the discus
sion which arose on the paper, and Sir William's

reply to the pretensions of a claimant to the in
vention of the Predicter.

    On several different occasions Lord Kelvin
took an important part in committees to advise the
Admiralty.

 ADMIRALTY COMMITTEE (1871) UPON THE DESIGNS
                          OF SHIPS OF WAR

    Early in September 1870 the public was shocked
by the news that H.M.S. Captain, a newly-built
turret ship of 6950 tons, with engines of 900 H.P.,
while on her experimental cruise, was caught in a
gale in Vigo Bay, and went down with all hands,

there being about 500 persons on board, including
her designer, Captaia Cowper - Coles. After the

732 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

disaster the Admiralty appointed a Committee to
examine the designs upon which the Captain and
other recent ships of war had been constructed. The
Marquis of Dufferin was chairman, and the majority
of the Committee consisted of experienced naval
officers. But a notable departure was made in

adding to the Committee several leading scientific

men, including Sir William Thomson, Professor
Rankine, Mr. W. Froude, and Mr. G. P. Bidder.
The instructions to the Committee on their appoint
ment in January 1871, stated that the Admiralty

sought a professional and scientific opinion upon

the designs of ships of various types. The inquiry
touched on the faulty points in the design of the
Captain, the relative stability and efficiency of the
Monarch, and the improvements possible in ships
of other classes. At that date the first-class ships
still carried masts and sails, and one of the con

tentious points of the inquiry was whether the
Monarch, a two-turret armour-clad ship carrying
full sail equipment, could be really efficient as a
fighting engine if built also to have real efficiency
under sail. The Committee met fortnightly through
the spring of 1871, and made its final Report in
July. Several definite scientific questions were
 remitted to a Scientific Sub - Committee under

 Thomson as chairman. Rankine made a Report
on the stability of ships under canvas, demonstrat
 ing that the Monarch had a limiting safe angle
 of heeling in a squall of 27^° as compared with
 the 9° of the Captain. Thomson for the Sub

xvn  ADMIRALTY COMMITTEE  733

Committee drew up a Report on the stability of
unmasted vessels such as the Thunderer and the

Devastation, based upon an investigation by Rankine
and himself in February. He also drew up Reports
on the stability and structural strength of ships of
the Cyclops class. The minutes of evidence show
that Thomson also gave evidence himself upon
the inclination producible by wind - pressures and
upon exceptionally steep waves. The work of this

Commission was very heavy, and its conclusions

important, as it had to lay down rules to govern the
construction of future vessels. Even definitions

and expressions which have since become funda
mental (e.g. " righting-moment ") originated in the

course of its work. Sir William used to travel up to

town every alternate week on Wednesdays, for four
days'absence from his University duties, part of which

were delegated to James T. Bottomley at this time.

   ADMIRALTY COMMITTEE (1904-5) ON TYPES OF
                                    WARSHIPS

    In December 1904 the Lords Commissioners
of the Admiralty decided to appoint a Committee
to review the types of fighting ships which the
Board of Admiralty proposed to adopt for the
British Navy. This Committee, presided over by
Admiral of the Fleet Lord Fisher, comprised seven

distinguished naval officers, together with seven

civilian members, of whom Lord Kelvin was one.
After considering various general questions such
as size of guns, uniformity of equipment, speed,

734  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

number, spacing and position of guns, the Com
mittee agreed to an interim report proposing outline

designs for two special types, a 21 -knot battleship
carrying ten 1 2-inch guns, and a 25-knot armoured

cruiser with eight 1 2-inch guns. Lord Kelvin took

a continuous and energetic interest in all these steps,

frequently corresponding with the President explain

ing his views. Amongst the great changes, steam-
turbines were recommended for propulsion. For
the details of design sub-committees of the official
members were formed, the non- official members

being asked to co-operate in the final conclusions.

The Committee had before it a large number of

preliminary designs, from which it selected a smaller
number for detailed consideration by aid of fuller

drawings and models. Lord Kelvin put forward
certain proposals as to the under-water form of hull,
based upon a suggestion which he had first made
(p. 751) to the Institution of Mechanical Engineers

in 1887, for effecting a possible addition to the dis
placement or carrying power of the ship without

adding to the wave-resistance or reducing the speed.

The Hon. C. A. Parsons was called in to counsel as
to the proposed adoption of turbines. Lord Kelvin

again took a great personal interest in this question,
and towards the end of January 1905 further advised
the Committee as to certain technical difficulties,

as to arrangements for the compasses and their

 protection, and as to the due provision and proper
placing of the instruments for control of fire, range,

and communication of orders. He took a keen


1.ORI) KELVIN S LKCTURK-ROOM IN THE UNIVERSITY OF GLASGOW, AS ARRANGED
                                        FOR A LECTURE ON GYROSTATS.

LORD KELVIN S LECTURE-ROOM IN THE UNIVERSITY OF GLASGOW, AS ARRANGED
                                            FOR A LECTURE ON ACOUSTICS.

xvn  ADMIRALTY COMMITTEE  735

interest in the operations of the Committee, and his

scientific knowledge, no less than his experience in
seamanship, was of distinct value in its delibera

tions. He was disposed on the whole towards
favouring the swift armoured cruiser, the Indomitable
type, rather than the heavier battleship, the Dread

nought type, but did not dissent from the unanimous
report of the Committee for the adoption of both

types. As a result the British Navy found itself

equipped with the famous Dreadnought (1907),
and the even more remarkable Indomitable (1908),
types which are now being fast multiplied in naval

construction.

    He also advised the Admiralty Committee on
Education of Naval Executive Officers in 1885 ;
and in 1873, at the request of the Plimsoll Parlia

mentary Committee, he drew up a memorandum on
the question of insecure navigation.

     The tables for facilitating Sumner's method of
finding the position of a ship at sea, which Lord
Kelvin drew up, prove the interest he took in sea
manship. The present highest authority in the
British Navy has assured the writer that he con
siders Lord Kelvin as the man who has done by far

the most for the advancement of navigation in our
time. " I don't know," said a sailor in the distant
seas of the East, " who this Thomson may be, but

every sailor ought to pray for him every night."
And the gratitude of the whole world follows him
for what he did.

               CHAPTER XVIII

                  GYROSTATICS AND WAVE MOTION

FAMILIAR as are the phenomena of rotating bodies
in such instances as the fly-wheel and the spinning-
top, it is surprising how backward has been the
teaching of the dynamics of rotation. Very few of
the treatises on mechanics in vogue to-day have
anything to say about the all-important principle of
the persistence of the axis of rotation in steady
motion. Yet it is this persistence which enables
the spinning-top to stand upright ; which gives the
rifle-bullet its deadly fixity of direction ; which
keeps the earth's axis pointing always to the celes
tial pole. That scientific toy, the gyroscope, a
heavy top spinning between bearings carried on a
gimbal ring, will teach more of this subject in an

hour than pages of disquisition. It became widely

known in the 'fifties, after the researches of Fou-
cault ; but its principle was known and taught at
Cambridge by Airy and by Earnshaw long before.
The strange stiffness shown by the spinning disc ;
the singular way in which its axis sidles off to
right or left when a force is applied to turn it
upward or downward ; the seeming, determination

                                                                  736

    CH.XVIH           GYROSTATICS                737

    with which it points its axis always in the same

    direction while one walks about or turns oneself

    when carrying are all consequences of this prin
                      it,
    ciple of persistence of axis of spin.a

      When still an undergraduate, as narrated on

    p. 79, Lord Kelvin and his friend Hugh Blackburn

    were struck by the problems of rotation, and at the

    time when they were reading together for the great

    mathematical test of the wranglership, they spent

is a  week of their seaside reading-party in spinning

    tops and rounded stones picked up on Cromer

    beach. Set up peg-top on its point, or try to
    stand an egg-shaped stone upon its end -- unless
                                           if
      spinning at once falls over. But
                                                it
                                                    is

                                                              it
               if it                             spin

    ning will stand up, and will resist being pushed
      it
           it
over. Nay, you spin the egg-shaped stone on

its side, will of itself rise up and spin on its end.

Why this acquired stiffness Why does body
                                  ;?       it a
when in rapid movement acquire an apparent power

of resisting disturbance which when still        does

    not possess All through his scientific life Lord
               ?

    Kelvin was pursued by importunate problems that

depend on this apparent stiffness acquired by rotat

ing bodies in virtue of their rotation. Even at the
age of fifteen he was familiar with the mathematics

    of rotating bodies, as his Essay on the Figure of

the Earth (see 10) shows and Poinsot's theorya p.
of couples had been brought to his notice by Nichol.a

In 1846 he wrote mathematical note on the axis   in
of rotation of rigid body (later embodied
Thomson and Tait, 282-284). He was therefore§§

738  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

certainly familiar with d'Alembert's theory of pre
cession. The earth's axis, though in general it

points in a constant direction, slowly shifts around
in the course of the centuries, exactly as the axis
of an obliquely spinning top slowly " precesses " in
obedience to the downward force of gravity ; though
in the earth's case it is the action of sun and moon

upon its bulging equatorial matter which causes
its axis of rotation to " precess." Thomson, with

that instinctive faculty that arose from familiarity
with the thing itself, thought out afresh the theory
of precessional forces, and refashioned the dynamical

formulae that express the couples which determine

the movements of the axis of spinning bodies. To

aid his thought he devised new forms of spinning-
tops and gyrostatic models. It was one of these
which he showed in 1863 to Helmholtz in operation

--with disastrous results to his hat --see p. 430.
The generic name which Thomson gave to these
most instructive toys was the gyrostat. A gyrostat

is simply a heavy, well-balanced, finely pivoted fly
wheel, like the earlier gyroscope, but enclosed in a
hollow metal box or case, within which it is spun.
When so enclosed, and suitably mounted, a variety of

experiments can be shown that are not readily made
with the older gimbal-mounted form of instrument.
In one of these forms Thomson mounted the

gyrostat within a concentric polygonal rim, so that
it could stand on edge, or skate about on a sheet
of glass. Others were mounted on stilts, or slung on
suspensions to afford various degrees of freedom.

XVIII GYROSTATICS                  739

Sundry experiments with them were described in

Nature on February 1, 1877, and are mentioned in a

long paragraph added to Vol. I. Part I. of Thomson

and Tait's Treatise, § 345, when revised for the
second edition in 1879. Piazzi Smyth had twenty
years before proposed the use of a gyroscope to

steady a platform for astronomical observations on

board ship ; but Thomson now demonstrated that

the gyrostat when spinning not only tended to

preserve an invariable axis of spin, but that in this

tendency it showed a remarkable quasi-elasticity.

If a blow were given to its frame, it quivered to

and fro like a stiff spring, and returned to its own

position. Thenceforward kinetic stability, the sta

bility of position due to the reaction of the moving

mass, became a prominent quality to be investigated;

and fryrostatic domination, the domination exerted

upon a system by any revolving masses within

assumed new importance. A favourite experiment
a
         ; in a

                 if

                                                 is
                                                               it

                                                                                        a it,
shown to visitors in the laboratory was made with an

enclosed gyrostat, with its axis of rotation vertical,

pivoted by its case on horizontal trunnion bearings

to square frame of wood, by which  could be

carried about with the frame level. If the experi

menter holding this in his hands walks in

straight line, or turns round in the same direction

as that which the fly-wheel  spinning, nothing

happens but should he turn round the other way,

the gyrostat immediately turns head-over-heels on

its pivots, as  bewitched. Many other curious
experiments were shown, in which the gyrostats --

740 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

visible or concealed -- were made to stand balanced
in strange positions, or nodding their axes while

sweeping round in precession, thus imitating the
astronomical phenomenon of nutation. These
strange effects, all capable of being brought under
mathematical calculation, had a fascination for Thom
son, who saturated himself with the study of their

perverse ways.
     Noting the philosophical bearing which this

question had upon the physical condition of the
earth, he constructed liquid gyrostats, ellipsoidal
metallic shells, both oblate and prolate, filled with
water. The spinning of the oblate ellipsoid about

its axis of symmetry was found to be stable --that
of the prolate unstable. A hard-boiled egg, if spun
on its end, would " sleep " like a top. If spun on

its side it would rise up and spin on end. But
an unboiled egg could by no means be induced to
spin on its end. This was a favourite class illus
tration. On one occasion a mischievous student

slipped furtively into the lecture theatre before
hand, and substituted two fresh eggs for the pair,
boiled and unboiled, which were provided for the
lecture. When it came to the moment the con

spirators waited breathlessly the result of their
deed. " Neither of them boiled " was Sir William's
unhesitating verdict, as he tried to spin them.

    Another of Lord Kelvin's tests for an egg is the
following :-- Spin the egg on its side. Then lay
the finger on it for an instant, just to stop it. On
lifting the finger, if the egg is boiled it remains

XVIII GYROSTATICS          741

still, if unboiled it goes on turning ; for though the

shell was stopped the liquid inside was still in

motion, and moves the shell when the finger is

removed.

    In 1875 he gave to the Edinburgh Royal
Society the theory of the spinning-top to account

for its rising 1 from the oblique position to the
vertical attitude in which it " sleeps." His ex

planation, that this action depended on friction at

the rounded point of the peg, had been anticipated,

however, by Jellett in 1872.
    But it was not spinning-tops alone that exhibited

kinetic rigidity.

    The following story was told by James White,
the optician, within a day of its occurrence in 1 868 :--

Thomson had been to Sturrock's, the fashionable

hairdresser's. in Buchanan Street, Glasgow, some

two doors from White's shop. At Sturrock's he

had seen an endless revolving indiarubber rope or

chain used for driving a rotatory hair-brush. He

came excitedly into White's shop as soon as he was
free. " White, come with me." And, without a

word of explanation, he hurried White to Sturrock's

and had the endless chain put into motion, and

showed White, by striking  the rigidity of form
                         !

                             it,

                                                                     it
                                                                        if
                                                                                  it ;
which  ! it       had acquired in virtue of its motion.

" There get one put up in the class-room at
College like that, at once " --and off he went. In

      " Hurry on the precession, and the body rises in opposition to gravity "
" delay the precession, and the body falls, as gravity would make do

were not spinning, "were two of Thomson's aphorisms. The effect of friction

at the peg to hurry on the precession.
1
              is

742  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

 a few days the chain was put up ; and his senior
 students remembered the delight with which he

 showed it to them, and shortly after to Tait who
 had come over from Edinburgh. He would hit the
 lower end of the loop vigorously with a stick, and

 thus force it into various almost fantastic shapes or
 kinks, which would persist for some minutes.
 Thomson had, of course, long been keen on problems

of kinetic stability, so the chain appealed to him. He

devised numerous other experiments on analogous

cases of the quasi-rigidity of motion. A circular

disk of thin paper spun rapidly around its centre
becomes so stiff as to resist a blow of the fist, and

resounds when struck. Professor Perry, a student
of Thomson's in the 'seventies, has described most
of these phenomena in his admirable lecture l on

 Spinning-Tops.

    It dawned upon Sir William Thomson that

in the quasi - rigidity of spinning bodies there
was a simulation of that property of matter

known as elasticity, and that it might even be
possible to explain the phenomena of elasticity
itself by supposing the molecules, or some of them,

to be in a state of rotation. He imagined a chain
of gyrostats all spinning, and connected together
by links ; and he laid before more than one of the
learned societies * mathematical discussions of the

properties of a stretched string of gyrostats, along
which string a wave might be propagated exactly

    1 Published, 1890, by the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge.
    1 Land. Math. Soc. Proc. vi. p. 190, April 1875 ; Prof. Roy. Soc. Ea'in.
viii. p. 521, April 1875.

XVIII GYROSTATICS                    743

as along a stretched elastic cord. Then it became
evident that if a revolving fly - wheel could so

behave, a whirling vortex filament in a frictionless

fluid would also possess a quasi-elasticity, because it

is in rotation. Indeed, the rebound which he had

observed with smoke-rings showed such to be the

case. Part of his researches on vortex-statics was

concerned with this idea. Again, the kinetic theory
of gases, in which the "spring of the air," dis

covered two centuries before by Robert Boyle, was

explained as the result of innumerable multitudes
of free-flying molecules dashing about in space and

colliding with one another, had been demonstrated

by Joule, and Clausius, and Maxwell to be pro

foundly true. If it were true, however, the mole

cules or atoms must themselves be elastic bodies,

and not the infinitely hard round objects which

before they had been regarded.

    In November 1880 Sir William consented to

give another discourse at the Royal  Institution.
When asked by Dr. De la Rue what     the subject

was to be, he replied :--

    MY DEAR SIR --The title of my lecture might be
" On Elasticity viewed as a possible Mode of Motion "--

unless Tyndall has patented the expression, and refuses

to grant me a license !-- Believe me, yours very truly,

                                                                 WM. THOMSON.

    When the discourse was given on March 4, 1881,

his opening sentence was :--

     The mere title of Dr. Tyndall's beautiful Heat, a
Mode of Motion, is a lesson of truth which has manifested

744   LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                       CHAP.

far and wide through the world one of the greatest dis
coveries of modern philosophy. I have always admired
it ; I have coveted it for Elasticity ; and now by kind
permission of its inventor, I have borrowed it for this

evening's discourse.

    He went on to explain that the hypothesis would
not be raised into a certainty until the elasticity of

the molecules themselves should have been demon

strated to be due to motion ; and all he claimed

now was to point out a possibility. He referred to
the well-known examples of the elastic-like firmness
of spinning-tops, of rolling hoops, of bicycles in
motion, and of smoke-rings and gyrostats. He
showed how a flexible endless chain of steel links

running round a revolving pulley, and then

suddenly caused to jump on to a platform, stood

up like a hoop and rolled along the platform until
its motion was lost by impact and friction. Also

a whirling mass of water in a rotating vase was
shown to possess a jelly-like stiffness. " May not

the elasticity of every ultimate atom of matter be
                   "
thus  explained       he asked ;  but  checked  the
                 ?

speculation by adding : " But this kinetic theory

of matter is a dream, and can be nothing else, until

it can explain chemical affinity, electricity, mag

netism, gravitation, and the inertia of masses (that

is crowds) of   vortices." There were difficulties ;
but he ended   optimistically : " Belief that no other

theory of matter is possible is the only ground for

anticipating that there is in store for the world

another beautiful book to be called Elasticity, a

Mode of Motion."

xvni GYROSTATICS AND WAVE MOTION 745

Two years later, in a paper given to the Royal

Society of Edinburgh, he showed, by a mathematical

investigation of a gyrostatically dominated com

bination, that any ideal system of material particles,

acting on one another mutually through massless

connecting springs, may be perfectly imitated in a

model consisting of rigid links joined together and

having rapidly rotating fly-wheels pivoted on some
or on all of the links. And so he produced out of

matter possessing rigidity, but absolutely devoid of

elasticity, a perfect model of a spring-balance.
    Not only this : for he saw also that by gyrostatic

models he could imitate the phenomena of mag

netism, and could design even a gyrostatic compass

which, unlike the magnetic one, should direct itself

always toward the true north pole of the rotating

globe of the earth. A favourite experiment was to

stand a gyrostat obliquely on his finger, place

another gyrostat on the top of
it                              slanting at a
                                                   ;
                                           a
                                              a
                                                           it,

                                                                                              aa
different angle, and third gyrostat on the top of

the second, so making crooked chain of them. Nor

did he stop here for, as we shall see later, he found

possible, by joining up gyrostatic elements into

network or tissue, to imitate the properties of the

ether of space in transmitting transversal waves.

Problems connected with the propagation of

wave-motion exercised over Thomson's mind

never-ending fascination. They appealed to him

not only by reason of his instinct for mathematical

analysis and as problems of hydrodynamics, but by
VOL. II
                                M

746  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

virtue also of his passion for seamanship and all

that pertained to the sea.

    In discussing the tides, we have seen how Sir
William Thomson at the outset distinguished

between the periodic movements due to the attrac

tion of the sun and moon, and those -- generally
much more rapid --due to the driving action of
wind. He distinguished no less carefully between

the waves in which the restoring force was the
weight of the water itself, and those lesser crispa-
tions in which the restoring force was the surface-

tension of the water - surface ; for these last he
termed ripples. The distinction is well brought out
in a communication on Ripples and Waves, printed
in Nature, November 2, 1871 ; a result of the

first-season cruise of the Latta Rookh (see p. 6n).
The principal passages in it are here reproduced.

     I have often had in my mind the question of waves as
affected by gravity and cohesion jointly, but have only
been led to bring it to an issue by a curious phenomenon
which we noticed at the surface of the water round a
fishing-line one day, slipping out of Oban (becalmed) at
about half a mile an hour through the water.

     What we first noticed was an extremely fine and
numerous set of short waves preceding the solid [the
line], much longer waves following it right in the rear, and
oblique waves streaming off in the usual manner at a

definite angle on each side, into which the waves in front
and the waves in the rear merged so as to form a beautiful
and symmetrical pattern, the tactics of which I have not
been able thoroughly to follow hitherto. The diameter of
the " solid " (that is to say, the fishing-line) being only two
or three millimetres, and the longest of the observed waves

five or six centimetres, it is clear that the waves, at distances

 xvm WAVE MOTION 747

 in any directions from the solid exceeding fifteen or twenty
centimetres, were sensibly unforced (that is to say, moving

each as if it were part of an endless series of uniform

 parallel waves undisturbed by any solid). Hence the
 waves seen right in front and right in rear showed (what
became immediately an obvious result of theory) two
different wave-lengths with the same velocity of propa
gation. The speed of the vessel falling off, the waves in
rear of the fishing-line became shorter and those in
advance longer, showing another obvious result of theory.
The speed further diminishing, one set of waves shorten
and the other lengthen, until they become, as nearly as I
can distinguish, of the same lengths, and the oblique lines
of waves in the intervening pattern open out to an obtuse
angle of nearly two right angles. . . . The speed of the

solid which gives the uniform system of parallel waves

before and behind it was clearly an absolute minimum

wave-velocity, being the limiting velocity to which the
common velocity of the larger waves in rear and the shorter

waves in front was reduced by shortening the former and
lengthening the latter to an equality of wave-length.

     Taking -074 of a gramme weight per centimetre of
breadth for the cohesive tension of a water-surface, . . .
I find, for the minimum velocity of propagation of surface

waves, 23 centimetres per second. . . .
     About three weeks later, being becalmed in the Sound

of Mull, I had an excellent opportunity, with the assistance
of Prof. Helmholtz and my brother from Belfast, of deter

mining by observation the minimum wave velocity with
some approach to accuracy. . . . [The mean result of
four determinations gave 23-22 cms. per second ; and 1-7
cm. as the corresponding wave-length.]

     I propose, if you approve, to call ripples, waves of

lengths less than this critical value, and generally to
restrict the name waves to waves of lengths exceeding

it. If this distinction is adopted, ripples will be undula

tions such that the shorter the length from crest to
crest, the greater the velocity of propagation ; while for
waves the greater the length the greater the velocity of

748  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

propagation. The motive force of ripples is chiefly cohesion ;
that of waves chiefly gravity. In ripples of lengths less
than half a centimetre the influence of gravity is scarcely

sensible ; cohesion is nearly paramount. Thus the motive
of ripples is the same as that of the trembling of a dew-
drop and of the spherical tendency of a drop of rain or
spherule of mist. In all waves of lengths exceeding five
or six centimetres the effect of cohesion is practically

insensible, and the moving force may be regarded as

wholly gravity.

    Lord Kelvin's scattered papers on Waves have

never been reprinted. If collected, along with those

on Vortex Motion, they would form an appropriate
fourth volume of his Mathematical and Physical
Papers. In 1886 he gave, at the British Associa

tion meeting at Birmingham, four papers on wave
subjects : on Stationary Waves in Flowing Water ;
on the Artificial Production of a Standing Bore ;
on the Velocity of Advance of a Natural Bore ;
and a graphic illustration of deep-sea waves. In

the same year he discoursed at Edinburgh on waves

produced by a ship advancing uniformly into smooth
water, and on ring-waves. To the Royal Society,

in 1887, he gave a paper on the Waves produced
by a Single Impulse. On August 3, 1887, when
the Institution of Mechanical Engineers met in

Edinburgh, he delivered an evening lecture on

Ship- Waves. This is reprinted in Vol. III. of

his Popular Lectures.

    He began by defining waves, generally, as "a

 progression through matter of a state of motion."
 After further definitions he remarked that waves of

xvm WAVE MOTION 749

water have this great distinction from waves of
light or waves of sound, that they are manifested

at the surface or termination of the medium or

substance whose motion constitutes the wave.

    It is with waves of water that we are concerned to

night ; and of all the beautiful forms of water-waves, that
of ship-waves is perhaps the most beautiful, if we can
compare the beauty of such beautiful things. The subject
of ship-waves is certainly one of the most interesting in

mathematical science. It possesses a special and intense

interest, partly from the difficulty of the problem, and
partly from the peculiar complexity of the circumstances
concerned in the configuration of waves.

     Before one can follow out the complicated pattern

of waves which is seen in the wake of a ship travel

ling through open water, it is necessary to study the
simpler case of waves travelling along a canal. Of

these a beautiful investigation was made in 1 834 by
Scott Russell, who found that, while short waves

travel slower than long ones, there is a particular
or critical speed for " long waves," that
                                                            is               waves
                                                                        is,
whose length from crest to crest                            many times

greater than the depth of the canal. For these the
law holds good -- supposing water to be perfectly
free from viscosity -- that their speed
                                                            equal to
                                                            is

                                                                                 a
that which  body acquires in falling through
is
     a
                     8a

                                   a
                                           is

                                                         a

                                             if
height equal to half the depth of the canal. Thus

in canal feet deep the natural velocity of the
" long wave "is 16 feet per second. Now
                                                            a                boat

                                                                a if
                                                                         a
dragged along canal at speed slower than the

critical velocity there always seen procession

of waves behind it. In fact, water were perfect

750  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

 fluid, then a boat dragged along at any velocity
 less than the natural speed of the long wave in the
 canal would be followed by a train of waves of so
 much shorter length that their velocity of travelling
 is the same as the speed of the boat ; and the boat
 will seem to ride behind the crest of the first wave.

 These waves wash against the banks of the canal.

To produce and maintain them consumes power.

 Much of the power required to drag a boat along a
 canal is wasted thus in wave-making. Moreover,

 water is not a perfect fluid : it possesses a certain
 amount of viscidity, though less than that of treacle

or thick oil. The effect of this viscosity is to cause
 the cessation of the hindmost waves of the pro
cession, which die out by fluid friction. The
 velocity of the front of a procession of waves is
 different, as Stokes and Osborne Reynolds have
 shown, from the velocity of progress of a wave

itself. If the depth be greater than about three-

 quarters of a wave-length, the rate of progression
 of the rear of the procession of waves will be half
 the speed of the boat. Now comes a most wonder

ful result : if the speed of the canal-boat be more

 rapid than the speed of the " long wave," it cannot
 leave behind it a procession of waves ; it travels
 along on the top of a sort of hillock or hump of
 water which travels along with the boat. As it

 makes no waves, the wave-making resistance is

 gone, and it is far easier therefore to draw the boat

fast than to draw it slower with a whole procession

of waves following. If a boat is drawn slowly it

xvm WAVE MOTION 751

makes waves ; draw it faster, it makes more waves
and requires more effort ; draw it still faster, so as
to reach the critical velocity. Once that speed is

reached, away goes the boat merrily, leaving no
wave behind it. This was discovered accidentally

early in the nineteenth century on the Glasgow and

Ardrossan Canal, by a spirited horse which took
fright and ran off, dragging the boat with and
                                                             is
led to the establishment of system of express                        is
" fly-boats " drawn by pair of galloping horses.                        it,

Of this singular circumstance Sir William Thomson
        a
                                            a
                                                          a
found theoretical confirmation in his mathematical

investigations of 1886-87. Applying what known
of canal-waves to the movement of ship-waves in

the open sea, Sir William Thomson then showed

that the beautiful diverging pattern                         comprised

between two straight lines drawn from the bow of

the ship backwards, with an angle of 38° 56' betweenit a a
them, with definite echelon of steep waves across
                 a
the track following the ship. All this and more he
described in the lecture at Edinburgh. He con

cluded with suggestion that since wave-resistance

depends almost entirely on action at the surface of

the water, might be possible for swift ships to

get high speeds of 18 or 20 knots by designing
their hulls with form swelled out below -- say with

breadth of beam five feet more below the water-

line than at the water-line --instead of with vertical

sides.

Even the veriest trifles about waves or wave-

making claimed Sir William Thomson's attention

752  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CH. xvni

He wrote once to Lord Rayleigh this para

graph :--

     We saw a fine mode of generating a regular proces
sion of periodic ring-waves in water. We were watching
a set of ducks yesterday on our arrival here [Netherhall],
and the beautiful echelons of waves which they made
when swimming. They seemed pleased at being noticed,
and one after another stopped swimming and called out
to us in their own language ; each about twenty very
regular periods. By looking at the ring-waves we could
count the number of quacks we had heard.

    In his last years Lord Kelvin communicated

several mathematical papers to the Edinburgh
Royal Society in continuation of these researches.
They were on the Front and Rear of a Free
Procession of Waves in Deep Water (1904); on
Deep-Water Ship-Waves (1905); and Initiation
of Deep- Sea Waves of Three Classes (1906).

                CHAPTER XIX

                              IN THE 'EIGHTIES

ARTIFICIAL though the division of time into decades
may be, there are instances where it well fits the

march of affairs. If in the development of the

electrical industry the 'sixties were notable for sub
marine telegraphy, and the 'seventies for the siphon-
recorder and the telephone, the 'eighties were no
less so for the outburst of activity in electric lighting.
So soon as sound engineering construction had been
applied to the magneto-electric generator, and the
mechanical production of electric currents had been
thus assured, electric lighting was bound to pro
gress. Already the arc lamp was in limited use.
The year 1878 had seen the Avenue de 1' Opera in
Paris lit with Jablochkoff's now historic "candles";
and a little later Swan and Edison had brought the
carbon glow-lamp into precarious existence. The
demand was springing up for improved generators,
for better lamps, for switches and safety devices,
and, above all, for measuring instruments. From
this development it was impossible for Lord Kelvin
to keep aloof. His advice and counsel were sought
by capitalists who saw in electric-lighting schemes

                                                                  753

754  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

a possible development of commercial importance.
With his engineering instincts he could not but
busy himself with these things, and the years from

1880 to 1893 are marked by a great devotion to the

invention of patented devices. His compass and

sounding machine were barely completed, and he
was still patenting improvements in them at inter

vals down to 1890. The long series of his patents

for electric measuring instruments, gauges, and
meters, begins in 1881, and continued till 1896.
Electric lamps he touched only as regards improved

means of suspension, in 1884. Dynamo-electric
generators claimed his attention from 1881 to 1884;

but he made no radical departure. A dynamo with

a disk-like ironless armature, and another with an

armature of copper bars like the bars of a squirrel-
cage, which he designed, attained to no success. He

also proposed rotating copper collectors to replace

the spring brushes of the ordinary dynamo ; but
they never came into commercial use. The zigzag
winding for alternators, associated usually with the
name of Ferranti, he invented independently in

 1 88 1 ; and the Ferranti machines were manu

factured under agreement with him with a
guarantee of a minimum royalty of ^500 per
annum. His great ingenuity, command of
mechanical devices, and wide experience in pre

cise electrical measurement, combined to bring

him success with his instruments for measuring
electric currents and potentials. These instru

ments, manufactured by the firm of James White

xix  IN THE 'EIGHTIES  755

and Co., in which he was now the chief part
ner, were not, however, developed without im
mense labour, and passed through innumerable
changes before reaching commercial form. He
thought in steel and brass, and must continually

have the incipient instrument before him when

working out the details ; alterations were then
made and put to the test. The tests suggested
some further change or improvement, and thus many
visits must be made to the workshops, and many
experimental trials in the laboratory, so that the
development, if sure, was both slow and costly.

    The first instruments suitable for use in con
nection with electric lighting were his graded

potential galvanometer and his graded current
galvanometer. The one was a portable volt-meter,

the other a portable ampere-meter, both being
developed from the tangent galvanometer modi

fied for new service. They were followed by a
magneto-static current-meter and by marine volt

meters and ampere-meters, and by ampere-gauges

for use on switchboards. Of the latter a whole

series had to be devised to measure currents from

^ ampere up to 6000 amperes. All these were

electromagnetic instruments.
     Another series for measuring potentials was

based on electrostatic principles, and may be

regarded as being developed from the quadrant
electrometer of 1860. By the multicellular con
struction instruments were made, some of them
reading as low as 40 volts, others as high as 1600

756  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

volts. For higher voltages other types were used ;

and electrostatic balances, based on the absolute

attracting electrometer, were made to read up to

50,000 or even 100,000 volts. In these instru

ments nothing is more remarkable than the con
fident way in which, defying the traditions of the
ordinary instrument -maker, he insisted on intro
ducing kinematic principles -- geometric slides, for
example, to give the right number of degrees of
constraint. The " hole-slot-plane " arrangement of
support, in place of the old three-pointed levelling
screws standing on a sole -plate, is due to Sir

William Thomson. " His inventions," wrote Pro

fessor FitzGerald, " are the direct outcome of the
most advanced theory. He is a living example of
the necessity for theory, in order to advance

practice as much as possible."

   A third and later series of instruments is that

comprising his standard electric balances, based on
the electrodynamic principle of weighing the forces
between movable and fixed portions of an electric

circuit. Finding in all the earlier electromagnetic
instruments inherent limitations as to range of use
and as to accuracy within that range, Sir William
fell back upon the fundamental discovery of Ampere,
and set himself to devise apparatus that should
require neither springs nor magnets, and in which
gravity should be the controlling force. Further
more, they could be rendered free from all per
turbations due to the neighbourhood of any mag
netic apparatus, or to local variations of terrestrial

nx  IN THE 'EIGHTIES  757

magnetism by astatic duplication of parts. Accord

ingly, in each balance two ring-coils were set at
the ends of a balance-arm, each such movable ring-

coil being situated between an upper and a lower
fixed coil. The tendency of the current to depress

one end of the arm and raise the other could then

be counterpoised by weights resting on the balance-
arm, or moved along an attached steel - yard.

Immense ingenuity was shown in the design of
details, in particular in the device for shifting the
weights along the graduated arm by a light silk
cord running through the case of the instrument.
Another notable device was the use of suspending
ligaments, consisting of a vast number of very
thin parallel wires, for supporting the trunnions of
the balance-arm, instead of pivots or knife-edges.

It was necessary to provide means of carrying into

the movable ring-coils the strong electric currents

to be measured, and this would have been quite
impossible with pivots or knife-edges, or with any
previously known means of flexible connection.
The designing of recording meters for electric
supply extended over a long period. In the
earliest of these the integrator of his brother James
was applied, but gave place eventually to simpler

devices.

     Work for pure science was never dropped during
these years of devotion to practical inventions. In
the spring of 1880, under the impulse of writing
 the Encyclopedia article on Heat, various researches

 on steam-pressure thermometry were undertaken,

758  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

and their results communicated to the Royal Society
of Edinburgh. He lectured in March on Mag

netism, at Largs, and in May on the Compass, to
the United Service Institution. Lady Thomson
wrote in April to Professor George Darwin, that
they proposed to spend June, July, and August in
yachting, and added, " We are in great spirits over

the elections ; I don't know if you are." The

general election of that year had brought a sweeping
victory for Mr. Gladstone. In the middle of May
Sir William and Lady Thomson paid a visit to
Charles Darwin at Down. No record has been

preserved of the occasion ; but the two men had a
good deal of talk, and parted with mutual respect
and admiration, though their whole interests lay in

different directions.

    A letter of Professor James Thomson to Pro
fessor George Darwin, to which Sir William added

the postscripts here printed in italics, tells of doings
on the yacht, whither, after a visit to London to
receive the Albert medal1 of the Society of Arts, he

had retreated to "get away from all animate and

inanimate bores."

                                                     ROSHVEN, FORT WILLIAM,

                                              Friday, itfh June 1880.

    MY DEAR MR. DARWIN -- I am along with my wife

on a yachting cruise with my brother and Lady Thomson
along the West Coast of Scotland, going northwards.
We have to-day landed at Prof. Blackburn's place, Roshven
on Loch Ailort, having passed Ardnamurchan Point

    "1 The terms of this award were : On account of signal service rendered

to Arts, Manufactures and Commerce by his electrical researches, especially
with reference to the transmission of telegraphic messages over ocean cables."

xix            IN THE 'EIGHTIES                           759

yesterday afternoon and during the night in fog and calm,

which made us have to lie to during most of the night.

My brother has his newest sounding machine and depth-

gauge on trial for the first time in their latest forms of

development by natural selection, and he was quite in

earnest feeling his way along the bottom yesterday in the

jofog by taking soundings and comparing his results with
soundings marked on the chart, in from     to 105 fathoms.
     On arrival here I received your letter about ripple

marks. My daughter had opened it for me in Glasgow,

and she sent me a copy of one of the two passages in
Lyell which you referred to. It is from Lyell's Elements

(page 19), and as it tells a good deal of detailed informa

tion and reasoning, I suppose it gives most of what you

wanted to refer me to. She was not able to find anything

about ripple marks in our edition of Lyell's Principles.

     I write at present chiefly to acknowledge receipt of
your letter. I have thought often a good deal about the

ripple mark, but have never yet seen how to clear the

matter up. I think perhaps I may be able to offer some

one or two suggestions tending towards true theory ; but
I have not time just now. I would like if manageable to

talk over the  matter with my    brother   fifrrsot,mantdhispeprlhaacpes--I
may write to   you again before   we sail

Loch Ailort.
     Mrs. Thomson and Lady Thomson and Sir William

Thomson join me in kind regards, and I am, yours truly,

                                                       JAMES THOMSON.
George H. Darwin, Esq.

   [P.S.]--My wife adds that it has been such beautiful

quiet sailing all the cruise that it would have suited you

perfectly, and she wishes you had been with us. W. T.

   A month later Lady Thomson wrote from Cowes,

asking Darwin to join them on the yacht. " Sir

William is supremely happy, and appreciating the

life afloat more than ever."     After another month

Sir William wrote :--

760      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                        CHAP.

                                YACHT LALLA ROOKH,

DEAR     DARWIN --You      see     SCILLY ISLES, Aug. 22/80.  It
                                how well the pen does.

has already written many letters and postcards, and has

even superseded pencil occasionally in the green book

Twnooitrwhq,ueabxyuc,telPlteehnnatztaensffcoeemc,t.ewSchiIaltltys--hinocuhealsdssahngativveecnrtuhiisatinnktgoe--od mCyhoueucrhbboeoufofrgre,a

scramble for almost every postal opportunity since it came,

to let it do so properly.

Don't forget to tell me how much fresh grant for lunar

gravity and terrestrial palpitations is to be applied for at
Swansea. We sail from St. Mary's Roads here to-morrow

forenoon, hoping to arrive there by Wednesday morning,

if not sooner. We have had some very good sailing, and
if you had been with us I am sure you would have enjoyed
our anchorage here, after " standing off and on " all night

waiting for daylight, and the visit to Tresco Abbey and
its plants of all climates. . . .

     The " awkward infinity " threatens quite a revolution

in vortex motion (in fact a revolution where nothing of
the kind, nothing but the laminar rotational movement,

was even suspected before), and has been very bewildering.
Only to-day I have begun to see light through and
I

                       it it

                                         I

                                                                                        it,
                                                                                                                 a
great deal that  has led to.    hope to be able to say
something about
                 in Section A at Swansea.

         am sorry you did not come with us to Cherbourg.
The going and lying at anchor there, and coming thence

to Torquay, would all have tested and fortified your sea
going qualities. The sounding machine and depth-gauge

worked most satisfactorily in as rough circumstances as

they are likely to meet with practically in ordinary use

at sea.

    Swansea was the scene of the British Association
meeting in August 1880; and there Sir William
read three papers on Vortex Motion, one on his
Depth-gauge, one on the Sounding Machine, one

xix         IN THE 'EIGHTIES             761

on Contact Electricity, and one on the Critical

Temperature of a Fluid.

     In October he was back in the Clyde adjusting com

passes on the Czar's yacht Livadia, and teaching the

use of the sounding machine to the Russian sailors.

   On December 18 he wrote to Dr. J. Hall

Gladstone, urging him to stand as parliamentary

candidate for Glasgow and Aberdeen Universities.
" The tide has turned sufficiently to make a Liberal
...majority probable -- you ought to have a very good
chance.     I shall be very glad to look forward

to your being our member if you will decide to

stand, and I think you may do much good in many

ways by being in the House."

     Christmas that year was spent as usual at

Knowsley, followed by family parties at Druid's

Cross and Mere Old Hall, Knutsford.

    The year 1881 was one of exceptional activity.
The revision of " Thomson and Tait " for the new

edition had long been on hand ; and the editing of
the second part of Vol. I. had been entrusted to Pro

fessor (now Sir) George Darwin. On January 17
Lady Thomson wrote to Darwin for Sir William,
" who is sitting on the sofa deep in a new depth-

gauge, simpler than any you have seen," sending
him a message about the effect of continents in

setting up harmonics of the second order in tidal

equations.

     Fleeming Jenkin wrote to him about a new heat-

engine, which promised   great  things,  and received

the following reply :--                                N
   VOL. II

762  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

    I am much interested in all you tell me of your heat-
engine. I think something of the kind, whether for solid
fuel or gas (did you see the report of Siemens' lecture here,
according to which gas is to be the fuel ?) is to be the thing
of the future, the steam-engine a thing of the past. I am
to be in Edin. for the second R.S. meeting of this month

(we shall be staying at the Crum Browns' from the Sat.

till the Tuesday) and I hope you will be able to show me
your furnace and experiments then. I am afraid, however,
that I could not join the proposed company. I am more
than fully occupied with compass and sounding machine,
etc., and I have spent so much money on them (including
as a small item 3 compass patents for England and

America, 2 sounding machines, etc. etc., and sounding

machine patent for France, and Germany also) that I am

not able to find £2000 for another undertaking, how
ever promising, nor time and thoughts to give to an
inventing company. I hope, however, that you will
find all the assistance and support you want when you
have so good a thing in hand, and such promising results
to offer.

    On February 1 1 Sir William lectured on Light

house Characteristics (see p. 727) at the Naval and
Marine Exhibition at Glasgow. He was interesting

himself deeply, too, in Mr. Anderson's Patent Law

Reform Bill, then before the House of Commons,

and wrote upon it in The Times of February 24.
March i saw Sir William in London reading to the

Civil Engineers the famous paper on his Tide-gauge,
Tidal Harmonic Analyser and Tide Predicter de

scribed on pp. 730-31 above. The reading and dis
cussion of this paper lasted three evenings. On
March 4 Sir William described to the United
Service Institution his navigational sounding

machine and depth-recorder, and in the evening of

xix                   IN THE 'EIGHTIES                                 763

the same day discoursed at the Royal Institution
on Elasticity (see p. 743). Two letters to Helmholtz,
who was coming to London to deliver the Faraday

lecture to the Chemical Society, relate Thomson's

next movements :--

                      12 GROSVENOR GARDENS, LONDON, S.W.,
                                          March 13, 1881.

     My DEAR HELMHOLTZ --For the last three months I

have been always intending to write and thank you for

having sent me such an excellent student as Mr. Witkowsky,

but time has flown too fast, and now I write urgently to

ask you to come and see us in Glasgow on the occasion

of your visit to England at the beginning of April. I am

coming up from Glasgow to London on purpose to hear

you lecture on the 5th of April, and to meet you at the
Chemical Society's dinner on the 6th. I would remain

in London till Saturday the pth, when both you and I

having heard Tyndall's lecture on the Friday evening,
would be ready to leave London. So I do hope you

will come to Glasgow with me on the Saturday and give

us as long a visit as you can. Lady Thomson (who is
with me this time in London, but will not make the

journey again in April) begs me to say that she looks

forward with much pleasure to making your acquaintance

in Glasgow, and joins me in hoping that you will say Yes

to my request.

    On Monday (being a holiday) we might go to Largs,
where we have built a country house, and for the rest of

the week the laboratory will be at full work again. On

Monday the i8th we might go to Edinburgh and see

Tait, etc., and attend the meeting of the Royal Society

there on the Monday evening.

    On Wednesday I return to Glasgow, having been here

for a fortnight on account of four lectures which I have

been    giving.  all  Let me    have   a   liYnees.a--ddrBeeslsieedve  to me here,
and     a.bove         things  let it  be                              me, always

truly,                                     WILLIAM THOMSON.

764  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

                             March 29/81, THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW.

    DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I am very glad to have the

prospect of seeing you here on the l$th of April. I hope
it will turn out that your Cambridge engagement will not
prevent you from coming. I now write on the part of
Lady Thomson and myself to say that we hope Mrs.
Helmholtz will come with you, and that you will stay
with us as long as you can. Perhaps Mrs. Helmholtz
would stay here while you and I go to Edinburgh for the
R.S. meeting on Monday the 18th, and return here on

Tuesday.
     I am going to London on Thursday night, and to

Portsmouth on Friday evening. I shall be glad to hear

from you when we may expect to see you. If you write

by return of post address me here ; if any day later this
week address care of Capt. Fisher, R.N., Crescent Lodge,

Southsea, Portsmouth.
     I am to stay with the Spottiswoodes in London, where

I shall be on Monday the 4th of April.
     Excuse haste, and believe me, yours very truly,
                                               WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Two days later, Lady Thomson wrote to Darwin

that Sir William had had a tide-gauge set up in

the Clyde, only about fifteen minutes' walk from

the University --a constant source of interest. " He
is very deep in electric light too just now --also

telephone companies. . . . You would meet Prof.
Helmholtz here about 15th or 16th if you come."

    Again, a note to Helmholtz :--

                                            PORTSMOUTH, April 4 [1881].

    DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I go to London to-morrow

morning to stay with the Spottiswoodes, 41 Grosvenor
Place. I arrive there at 1 1 o'clk., and will go on im
mediately anywhere I can find you ; so please let me
have a line which I may find on my arrival at Spottis-

woode's to say where I must go to find you. You will

xix              IN THE 'EIGHTIES                                    765

no doubt be busy to-morrow in the prospect of your
lecture for the evening, but I must just see you, if only

to fix a  taimneythfoinr gWetodgneetshdeary. ,--wBheelinevwee   can  go anywhere
and do                                                         me,   yours always

affectionately,  WILLIAM THOMSON.

     It was in the spring of 1881 that Sir William

Thomson became interested in the Company which
had been formed by Sir Joseph W. (then Mr.) Swan
and his friends in Newcastle for the manufacture of
the Swan glow-lamp. Though Sir William declined
to take any official post as Director or Technical
Adviser, he accepted the unofficial position of

honorary consultant, and from time to time assisted

the Company in that capacity.

     Returning on May 1 1 from London after a brief

cruise in the Lalla Rookh, Sir William Thomson

found a new scientific sensation. News had come to
England of the production in Paris by Camille Faure
of a secondary battery or accumulator for the storage
of electric energy. The Times of May 16 contained
a letter from Major Ricarde Seaver, announcing
that he had brought over from Paris a box contain
ing a million foot-pounds of stored energy, which
he was taking to Glasgow to Sir William Thomson
to be tested. Sir William, who apparently had

never before appreciated the beautiful and patient
researches of Gaston Plante, extending from 1869
to 1878, on the formation of secondary cells of

lead, and their use in electric storage, was
immensely seized with the new invention, and

fell upon it with more than his wonted energy.

766  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

On May 17 he wrote from Netherhall to Dr.
Gladstone :--

    We are just setting out for a day or two's cruise in the
Clyde, to test sounding machine and depth-gauges, but
this address will find me. The " box of electricity " is

being kept under continued tests and measurements by

James Bottomley in my absence. It is splendidly power

ful, but I have yet to find whether it does the whole
amount of work specified by Mr. Reynier (and Mr. Faure),
and how much actual work must be spent on it each

time to renew its charge.

    He had, unfortunately, just then been seized with

an illness, one of the recurring sequelae of the accident

to his leg twenty years before, which obliged him
to remain in bed for over three weeks. This did

not in the least diminish his ardours. The whole

laboratory staff was kept at work early and late

experimenting, manufacturing new cells with red

lead and sulphuric acid, charging and discharging

the batteries, and reporting every detail at the

bedside of the patient. A Swan lamp, fed from

batteries made in the laboratory, and hung by a

safety-pin to his bed-curtain, created great astonish

ment in the many visitors who called on him. He

wrote from the University to Jenkin on June 3 :--

    l am about as well as possible, but the doctors said I

should have to stay in bed for a fortnight at least. I
shall be all right in a few days with absolutely no residual
evil. I think very probably the fortnight will be shortened.
Meantime I have plenty on hand in the way of proofs
and outlying math1 work. They are as hard at work as
possible in the laboratory on the Faure storage cells,

which are doing splendidly. It is going to be a most

xIX  IN THE 'EIGHTIES  767

valuable practical affair -- as valuable as water cisterns to

people whether they had or had not systems of water-
pipes and water-supply.

     He had a long letter in The Times of June 9,
 which also had a long article on the subject. He

 stated that he had now subjected the battery to a
 variety of trials in his laboratory for three weeks,

 and that he was continuing the experiments at the
 request of the Societe' Anonyme la Force et la
 Lumiere, which owned Faure's patents. He was
interested in seeing in it " a realization of the most
ardently and unceasingly felt scientific aspiration of

his life --an aspiration which he scarcely dared to
expect or to see realized." The problem of storage

was "one of the most interesting and important in the
whole range of science." Already the battery in his

laboratory had been found useful in surgery for

cauterizing. The largest useful application awaiting
the Faure battery was, however, to act as a cistern

does to a water supply, as in the event of a stoppage
or break-down of the machinery it would prevent
failure of the light. The Faure accumulator, kept
supplied from the engine by a supply main, will be
always ready at any hour of the day or night to give

whatever light is required. Precisely the same
advantages in respect of force would be gained by
the accumulator when the electric town supply is,
as it surely will be before many years pass, regularly
used for turning-lathes and other machinery in work

shops and sewing-machines in private houses. All

this and more his letter set forth.

768       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                            CHAP.

     On June 17 Lady Thomson wrote to Darwin :--

     Sir William sends to tell you that he has been

absolutely forced off the air problem just when he was
so exceedingly interested in it -- he hopes to go back to
!)....it again

has been
     before long (but I        don't  know    when    "        He
                               his "  potted  energy
      so taken up with                                   that he

has had no time for anything else. The laboratory is

very hard at work making Faure accumulators and

measuring their work. James Bottomley has gone to

Paris to help them with their scientific work there. Sir

William is tremendously interested in it. We are going

to have electric light in the Lalla Rookh with its aid. I

am sorry to say we are here. We had about a fortnight

of yachting, and had just come up here again to prepare

to go south, and have been delayed by Sir William
getting laid up. It is nothing serious, but he has been

three weeks in his bed ! Can you imagine his bearing it

patiently ? but he does, and keeps everybody busy about

him, and for himself the day is never half long enough.
                                            longer -- and we
We   shall be here   at least    ten days                     are
                                           Portsmouth, and    the
due  everywhere !--  Paris --  London --

... ...poor Lalla Rookh is lying idle at Largs.                       I
June 21.  Sir William is still a prisoner.

am general secretary just now, so you may imagine I am

pretty busy. Rennie [Sir William's amanuensis at that
date] is working in the laboratory. They are so short-
handed there just now.

                                THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW, June 22/81.

     DEAR JENKIN --

    I dare say you saw The Times' City letter and Major
Seaver's letter in reply re Force et Lumiere. I hope
that the proprietors of Faure's patents, the " Societe la

Force et la Lumiere," are going to buckle to the real
work of manufacturing and supplying accumulators, and
that no formations of monster companies will continue to
form any part of their plans. They have a splendid

xix IN THE 'EIGHTIES 769

thing in    hand, and  I  am  very anxious  to see it worked
out well.                                               W. T.
           -- Yours,

DEAR       JENKIN    THE UNIVERSITY,  GLASGOW, June 26/81.
                                        good man to spare
                   -- Have you any

who knows something of electricity and engineering, and

French, supposing I want to send a man to Paris to

take charge of testing and inspecting in the manufacture

of Faure accumulators ?

J. T. Bottomley is there at present, and I intend to go
in about a fortnight, but it is possible we shall have to

leave some one in charge.

White has been appointed, under my direction, sole

agent for the manufacture and sale of Faure accumulators
in the United Kingdom. -- Yours.
                                            W. T.

    By July 9 Sir William was well enough to be in

London, on his way to join his yacht at Portsmouth,

where he was busy with the Inflexible, settling her

compasses, and seeing to her experimental equip
ment with " potted energy " in the shape of storage

batteries for electric lighting. He was also busy

arranging with the Jay Gould cables for the use of
mirror galvanometer and siphon recorder. Then
back again in London, he stayed for six weeks
at the Grand Hotel, busying himself personally
to arrange with Mr. Fender, Dr. C. W. Siemens,
Mr. E. P. Bouverie, Mr. I. Lowthian Bell, Sir
John Lubbock, Mr. C. Seymour Grenfell, and
Captain Douglas Gallon, to form a company to
exploit the Faure battery. The agent of the
French patentees, M. Philippart, had a marvellous

genius for drafting prospectuses, and evolved

scheme after scheme. All schemes had the feature

of showing immense future prospects of profit to

770  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

the investors, and all were arranged to bring to the
vendors a sum varying from a quarter to half a
million pounds. He induced Sir William, whose

labours up to this point had been purely voluntary,

to enter into an agreement to act as technical
adviser, receiving in return 10 per cent of the

capital. Sir William insisted that the fact and
extent of his interest should be published. To this
course M. Philippart objected. The owners of the
Faure Patents proposed the enormous capital of
^400,000, of which they were to receive ;£ 120,000
in cash and half the shares. The negotiations lasted
through August, as one by one withdrew from taking
part in so formidable a venture ; but it was not till
some weeks later that Sir William was brought to

realize the very unsatisfactory position ; and he too

withdrew --a heavy loser by the affair -- from all asso

ciation with the venture, though he wished the inven
tion success. He was keen to light his own house
at the University by Swan lamps and Faure cells.

    The year 1881 being the Jubilee of the British
Association, its meeting in York --the city of its
foundation --was one of unusual brilliance. Sir
John Lubbock (now Lord Avebury) presided ;
and Sir William Thomson was chosen once more

as president of the Mathematical and Physical
Section. He took as the topic of his Address the
Sources of Energy in Nature available to Man for

the Production of Mechanical Effect. Beginning
by remarking how the science of Energy had prac
tically arisen during the fifty years of the existence

xIX  IN THE 'EIGHTIES                       771

of the Association, he reverted to his earlier paper

of 1852 (see p. 289), in which he had enumerated

the natural sources of available power --food for

animals, natural heat, potential energy of elevated

masses, natural movements of air and water, natural

combustibles, and artificial combustibles.  Heat

radiated from the sun was undoubtedly the chief

source, and a second possible one was the tides due

to the earth's rotation. Of the natural sources,

tides, food, fuel, wind, and rain, only one, the tides,

was not derived from sun-heat. Tide-mills existed

indeed ; but the vast costliness of dock construction

was prohibitory of almost every scheme for utilizing

tidal energy. Parenthetically he praised the metric
system, " to which we are irresistibly drawn, not

withstanding a dense barrier of insular prejudice

most detrimental to the islanders." As the sub

terranean coal-stores of the world were becoming

exhausted, surely and not slowly, the price of coal

was upward-bound, and it was not chimerical to

think that in some form windmills or wind-motors

would again assume ascendency. Even now they

might be used for lighting. Now that we had

dynamos and Faure cells for storage, the chief

want was cheap windmills. Rain -power was not

economical except as the natural drainage of hill

country. For anything of great work by rain-

power, the water-wheels must be in the place where

the water - supply with natural water was found.
" Such places are generally far from great towns,

and the time is not yet come when great towns

772  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

grow by natural selection beside waterfalls, for
power." But the splendid suggestion of Siemens,1
that the power of Niagara might be utilized
by transmitting it electrically to great distances,
had given a fresh departure. From the time of

Joule's experimental electro - magnetic engines,
and by the theory of the electro- magnetic trans
mission of energy, it had been known for thirty

years that potential energy could be transmitted by
means of an electric current through a wire, with

unlimitedly perfect economy. Adopting Siemens's
shortened form of the word, he declared in con
clusion that " dynamos " give now a ready means
of realizing economically on a large scale many
practical applications of Joule's thermodynamics of
electro-magnetism ; and, in particular, they make it
possible to transmit electro-magnetically the work
of waterfalls through long insulated conducting
wires, and use it at distances of fifties or hundreds

of miles from the source, with excellent economy.
     One passage of the address, not included in the

reprint in Vol. II. of the Popular Lectures, is worth

preserving : --

     High potential, as Siemens, I believe, first pointed out,
is the essential for good dynamical economy in the electric
transmission of power. But what are we to do with 80,000
volts when we have them at the civilized end of the wire ?
Imagine a domestic servant going to dust an electric lamp
with 80,000 volts on one of its metals ! Nothing above
200 volts ought on any account ever to be admitted
into a house or ship or other place where safeguards against

   1 Presidential Address of Sir William Siemens to the Iron and Steel Inst.

xix  IN THE 'EIGHTIES  773

accident cannot be made absolutely and for ever trust
worthy against all possibility of accident. In an electric
workshop 80,000 volts is no more dangerous than a

circular saw. Till I learned Faure's invention I could

but think of step-down dynamos.

    In the section meetings Sir William followed up
the outlines of his address by reading papers on
Some Uses of Faure's Accumulator in Electric
Lighting ; on the Photometry and the Illuminating
Power of Electric Lamps ; on the Proper Propor
tions to be given to the Resistances in the Different
Parts of Dynamos ; and on the Economy of Metal
in Conductors of Electricity. The last two were
of importance. In the one he gave rules for the
good design of shunt-wound dynamos ; in the other

he enunciated the now famous law, that for economy
in long-distance transmission of power at a given
voltage the best economy is obtained when the
conductor is of such a thickness that the interest on

the capital expenditure on the copper is equal to
the annual cost of the energy lost in transmission

through the conductor. Though there is modifi
cation needed for cases in which the cost of the line

(for example, in extra-high voltage transmissions)
other than the mere weight of copper is not pro
portional to the mileage, " Kelvin's law" is still the
foundation of practice. He also read a paper on an

electro-ergometer, only to find that his proposal was
the same as the wattmeter, shown to the section by
Ayrton and Perry the same day.

    At this meeting there was a very keen discus

 sion on the report of the Committee on Electrical

774           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Standards, which had been reappointed on the

motion of Prof. Ayrton the previous year. An
International Congress -- the first of its kind--was

to be held at Paris in the middle of September, at

the Electrical Exhibition, and it was keenly desired

that other nations might agree to the system of

units and standards which the British Association

Committees had evolved, chiefly under Thomson's

inspiration, since 1862. Joule had shown the
original B.A. ohm (p. 419) to be slightly smaller

than its intended theoretical value in the absolute

centimetre-gramme-second system ; and new deter
minations of the absolute values of resistances,

currents, etc., had been made in different countries

by Rayleigh, Mascart, Rowland, Rofti, H. F. Weber,

and others. There was also a serious proposal to

substitute for the practical units of current and

voltage other units ten times as great, so as to make

them agree with the " absolute " units. The Com
mittee at York was divided on this point, and the

proposal to keep the unit of current (then called the

weber) at one-tenth of the absolute unit was carried
by a bare majority, Sir William Thomson urging

that the smaller value was more convenient, being

about of the magnitude needed for one Swan lamp.

"Alas! no West Highlands this year for us,"

wrote Sir William to Jenkin on September 9.
" We are off to Spottiswoode's, Coombe Bank, this

moment, and thence to Paris, Monday ; Netherhall
                               "
a  fortnight  hence,  hurrah
                              !

   At the Paris Congress Sir William was a notable

xIX  IN THE 'EIGHTIES  775

figure amongst the leaders of the electrical world.
M. Cochery, Minister of Posts and Telegraphs,
presided. The foreign vice-presidents were Sir
William Thomson, Signor Govi, and Prof. Helm-
holtz. Helmholtz, Werner Siemens, and Du Bois

Reymond represented Germany, and there was a
strong feeling in favour of abandoning the British
Association's unit of resistance, the ohm, in favour

of Siemens's unit, the column of mercury one metre
long. The debate grew warm. One who was
present has narrated the unforgettable scene of
comedy of Thomson and Helmholtz disputing hotly
in French, which each pronounced more suo, to the
edification of the representatives of other nation

alities. A severe disruption was averted by a

timely adjournment, during which, by the efforts of
M. Mascart and Mr. (now Lord Justice) Moulton,
a compromise was arranged to accept the B.A.

ohm, but to represent it concretely by a column

of mercury of appropriate length, the precise
value of which was to be fixed at an adjourned
conference the next year, after further researches.
The names of the electrical units, ohm, volt,
farad, and coulomb were agreed to ; but that of
the weber was changed to ampere, in honour of
the great French savant. Sir William was the
life and soul of the whole business of the Congress.

     While staying in Paris Sir William gave to the
Academic des Sciences a paper on the Thermo-
dynamic Acceleration of the Rotation of the Earth,

which he had recently discovered.

776             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                          CHAP.

    In October he learned that he had been awarded
the Diplome d'honneur at the Exhibition for his
fine show of compasses, galvanometers, and other

instruments and inventions.

The important part which Sir George Darwin

took in the revision of the Treatise occasioned much

correspondence and is illustrated by the following
note :--

                                THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW, Nov. 8, '81.     g.
                                                                                      is i.,
    DEAR DARWIN -- In the italics of § 569 I think c. of

though never heard of by either Pappus or Guldinus,
ought, as you say, to be put in place of c. of g. But in

                really the approximate theorem of c. of that
§
                   that                               aoncdcaaslilonsimfoirlaur sicnagsesit..--YTohuerrse,
      5             in

       7
           2

           it
                is

                                  g.

                               §

                                          is
used, and gravity                             the
fore leave c. of                            572

                                                                          W. T.
    [P.5.] -- enclose another sheet for your imprimatur

also piece of slip of the preceding sheet.
     a                                                                           ;

             I

    Sending more proofs on November 16, he
wrote --
I

           .:
                      .

                                         is
     am tremendously obliged to you for what you are

doing. . The truth                                    your help has been  a  great

spurt to me.

    Within three days he was back in Glasgow          a  l
arranging to light his residence and the University
laboratory by Swan lamps, Clerk gas-engine, and
Faure cells.

     On October 17 Lady Thomson wrote to Darwin
that Sir William had gone off to the Inflexible at

        Sir William took part in discussion on the theory of the gas-engine,
after paper by Mr. Dugald Clerk, at the Institution of Civil Engineers,
April 4, 1882.
1
    a

                                                   a

xix               IN THE 'EIGHTIES                                                                                                           777

last for a trip about the south coast, to end at
Plymouth on the 27th, when he would go to

Cambridge :--

     Before he left on Saturday he bade me write to you

to thank you very much, and to tell you what valuable
assistance you have given in T and T' ; he says in future
    wNilol vh. a4v.e--toSibreWTillaianmd  D, not T and T'. .
it                                         says I am to tell  ..

                                                              you  that                                                                      he

felt much humiliated by the number of blunders which

you caught out. . . . He gave his first lecture on Wedy

morning, and is already in full swing of his winter's work.

     The same day he wrote to Jenkin :--

     You must have engine and dynamo to work the

Swans, which, as you say, are lovely. The true domestic

use of the Faure is for continuing a small amount of

lighting after the main demand ceases when the engine is

(thanks to        to be let stop. . . . Excuse haste and
            it)
                                                                      I
shakiness of hand standing on my legs before                                                                                                 run

out to my class.

    On December 8th Lady Thomson sent Darwin

word that they had had a very pleasant visit from
Mr. and Mrs. Hopkinson. " Sir William and he did
nothing but talk electric light and dynamos " Sir
William's house was then being wired for electric
lamps. He added the following postscript to the
letter --
it
    is

                  :

                            it
                                     is

                                                   ?

                                               is

                                              T

                                                                  &
                                                                       :I

                                                                                                                                          !

                                                                                                            O
     Thanks for the Adams [an estimate of geologic
time], which will do splendidly for
                                          T'. am glad

     not a recantation. Why don't you want the earth
                                          It the probable history of the
consolidated as

earth's emergence into the consistentior status not com

plete in every detail, but about as correct on the whole as

any ordinary history of England.

   VOL. II

778  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

    On December 26th Sir William wrote again
from Knowsley :--

     I have been engrossed with finishing one patent, and
making the provisional of another, for two or three weeks,
but I have brought all of both T & T' and my reprint
with me, so I hope to get something done in the holidays.
Shall I send you sheets for your final imprimatur after I
have done all I can on them, or would you rather wait

till after the Tripos ?

    The following extract from a later letter on the
rigidity of the globe has an interest of its own :--

                                                                                         Dec. 28, 1 88 1.

    . . . That a change from ellipticity of ^^ to -^^

could take place in a body as rigid as the earth is as

a whole, without leaving gigantic traces, I have always
thought to be so very excessively improbable, that I have
never doubted the validity of the assumption that the

earth has not experienced it since consolidation, nor of
any conclusion founded on this assumption.

     The durability of Africa and America have (sic) always
to my mind been irrefragable proof of the permanent
rigidity of the earth under stresses comparable with those

due to angular velocity, giving comparable elevations and
depressions of a complex level surface relatively to a

surface through the same solid particles. It seems to

me exceedingly improbable that the angular velocity can
have changed by much more than -fa of its own amount
since consolidation, because 1000 or 2000 or 3000 feet
of elevation of equatoreal solid relatively to a level surface

would not redress itself by the earth's yielding to over
severe stress ; and even considering volcanoes, or whatever
may be the cause of the greatest elevations and depressions
that have taken place in geologic history, I do not think
a 2000 ft. or 3000 ft. elevation of equatoreal land, by
failing centrifugal force, could be lost among the other
disturbances. I think it just possible that 1000 feet

         xnc        IN THE 'EIGHTIES                                         779

might be overlooked by us among the great changes that
have taken place, and therefore I don't think Adams'

datum absolutely inconsistent with 1ob centuries of geo
logical time. But if Adams' datum is correct it would

give some weight in the balance for arguing something

less than that. I should think from 20 to 50 million
years, all things considered, the most probable. Under
ground heat, I suppose (not to speak of biology), makes
20 x 1oa more probable than 5 x 10" or than 10. There

are many reasons that make anything more than 100 x 1o6
improbable, so far as I can see.

    Consulting Dr. Gladstone about the chemistry

of accumulators, he wrote :--

                                         THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

                                                                            22nd Dec. '8 1.

              DEAR GLADSTONE -- James Bottomley showed me

         your letter, and we are much interested in                 as well as
                                                                    it it,
         in what you wrote to me about the Plante and Faure              is

         batteries. My great difficulty all along has been to under

         stand how  that the electrolytic action of the peroxide
              it,
                      it
                            is

                                                         it
                                                                 I
         in contact with the lead plate upon which                           placed

         does not go on oxidizing the plate.                        cannot see the

         conducting connection between and the plate in contact

         with so as to allow the complete electrolytic surface of

         the coating to be in regular action, and yet not to cause

         oxidation of the lead plate in contact with it.            am also
                                                                    II
         much puzzled about the function of the sulphuric acid.           aI

It            not simply to render the liquid conductor.                          Ihave
   I I is                                     ;a
         tried a Faure element without sulphuric acid, but hithertoit,

         with only negative results. It has hitherto been com

         plete failure in respect to capacity and yet believe
         have sent enough of quantity through to produce a large

         action on the minium. However, the trials are incomplete,

         and may get better results yet.

              want to know why           that the sulphuric acid does
                    it
                            is

                             it

                                     is
         not form sulphate of lead, with the protoxide found in

the battery. Is      that there           is  besides the peroxide,

another oxide which             not attacked by sulphuric acid               ?

780  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

The liquid in my cells is sometimes quite destitute of acid,

and is then replenished with dilute acid in the proportion
of ten volumes of water to one of acid.

     The loss of the acid sometimes takes place several
times in the process of forming a cell. The cells in which
it goes on much are found to be bad ones, but I have
not been able to find the cause of the badness. The
presence of sulphate of lead on the peroxide, as I find
it sometimes coating the peroxide over in places like
disease spots, is certainly an evil ; not, I believe, merely

by obstruction, but by somehow tending to let the cell

discharge itself. Cells sometimes go bad, and on being

recharged for a long time, become again as good as they
were. The whole thing is in immense need of investiga

tion, but the investigation is excessively difficult.

     I think it is going to be of great practical value not
withstanding all these difficulties. I am on the point of

beginning to light my laboratory, lecture-room, and house

with Swan and Edison lamps. As an auxiliary for night
lights and dark winter mornings, I shall have about 130
cells (round) of the Faure battery, on the original pattern,
which I made here last June and July. Many of them
are bad, but on the whole I expect they will give the
result I require, although not with perfect economy. I

have got my house completely wired from attic to cellar,
and I mean to have no gas and no candles. The gas-
engine I am going to use will be in my laboratory, and

 I hope to find it running on my return from England,
where we are to spend the holidays in Liverpool and its

 neighbourhood. . . .

   All through the year 1882 the revision of T & T'

occupied Sir William's time, and he wrote every
few days to Darwin. On January i he sent word
that he had "shortened the first day of the year
considerably by a great despatch of Mathematical
and Physical papers " to the printers ; and he was

x1x             IN THE 'EIGHTIES        781

"Imuch bothered by § 830 of T & T. The next
day another note adds :  am on my way to

Glasgow for an odious affair in the Phil. Soc.

to-night about gas-meters (awards!)." Many of
these letters tell of other matters beside printers'

proofs. Sir William's house was the first in Scot

land to be fitted with electric lights. He himself
devised many details -- switches, fuses, suspensions,

and such like.

    Feb. 15.-- I have   been overwhelmed with electric
lighting. It is going
It is already a great  to be a great success in the house.
                       pleasure, but wants much much to

complete it for practical convenience.

    In May, after the College session was over,
there was a fresh outburst of correspondence on
the parts of the book relating to tides and other
matters. At last, on June 11, he found himself on
the Lalla Rookh in Lamlash Bay ; but, alas ! he had
left the proofs behind at Netherhall.

    It is most unfortunate. Though we sailed much of
yesterday, which is all-absorbing (the chief merit of

sailing) ; but this is Sunday and wet all after church
time, an opportunity sadly lost. I did look at proofs in
the Pullman on Thursday night, but not by electric light,
so detected no errors.

   June 15 (addr. Yacht, Lalla Rookh, Largs). -- I shall

be here again next Thursday as eras ingens iterabimus
aequor ; i.e. the gravity and kinetic equipotential on a line
from Gareloch to Largs.

   A very characteristic letter to Darwin is the
following :--

782          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                              CHAP.

             " LL.R." INGENS AEQUOR, GARELOCH,->

             LOCH LONG,-*LARGS,->- GREENOCK,

    DEAR DARWIN -- P.                                                June 21/82.

report are " utterly right  3" 0i2n                                and the Tables of my         1876

                                                                   respect to the epochs      of the
fortnightly and lunar semi-diurnal tides ; and your "                                         --(· v "

could but be met by an unqualified not guilty. . . .
    I must have been wrong in one of my marginal " oh
no's " on one of your returned MSS. And I suppose the

" ? " after " hinc " is to be answered in the negative.

     But why did you go on attacking § 302, and Laplace
and Hopkins ? Their astres fictifs and mean suns and

mean moons are a most valuable contribution to means

of expression (alas ! an unintended pun) in physical and

descriptive astronomy. It is the combination of aphasia,

with heedlessness as to logical clearness and accuracy when

aphasia is overcome that makes the whole difficulty in the

ordinary dealings of astronomical writers with such ques
tions as this that we have had in hand, which by aid of

Laplace and Hopkins properly used (and not abused), as
I have abused them to some degree, by not saying equa-

toreal mean moon when I meant                                        and orbital mean
                                                                     I it,
moon when meant and ecliptic mean sun's longitudeIa
instead of even in " " and for a moment adoptingit,                                a
" sun's mean longitude."
                            .
                                .
                                     .

I    don't know when this will be posted, as we are

now (5.15) becalmed, rather far up Loch Long.                                                    in
                                                                                              I
tended to be up in Glasgow and have trial of my                                                     I

potential regulator to-night but am resigned. My
      .] is
dynamo         ; itatall eventswill                                  not suffer, as    this   (--LLY.oRu. rs,
mean)   the  only place     for                                    scheming such     things.
                                                                  ;
                                                                     W. THOMSON.

        -- Excuse the disjointed and untidy character of

the above, as was only possible to write during showers,

so beautiful are the masses all round above the great

equipotential till the weather became too fine and put
                                                                                              I

the stylograph in requisition on deck.

     Early in July the yacht started for West
                                                                                      a

xix               IN THE 'EIGHTIES                              783

Highland cruise, and on July 9 Sir William wrote
from Crinan Bay :--

    . . . You must give a paper to the B.A. Southampton
on Fortnightly Tides and the Rigidity of the Earth. It
is the fruit for which the B.A. Tidal Committee of
1869-76 was sown, as you may judge from T & T'

§···
    My burning question for the last sheet but one of

reprint has cost me a good deal more time and work

(time chiefly spent in trying to read with complete in
                                        of   Electrostatics
ttheallingenI cereck§o§ ne7d0.0-73I2        my way pretty    and Magnetism)
                                      see                    thoroughly now,

I think, and I do hope to get it off, and the last of the

vol. imprimatured, almost instantly. I have done a good

deal, however, on the T & T' proofs, and am only waiting

to get a sentence or two written for § 830, and possibly
an addition from the Rede lecture for 1866 (Phil. Mag.

1866, 1st half-year) decided on.

    P.S.--The necessity for a depth-gauge not founded

on the spring of air becomes more and more urgent, and

has taken a good deal of my time from T & T' and the
reprint It slumbers till I get to sea, and then comes
on with renewed intensity. It has done so at all events

these four years, every time.

    July 19 found the yacht at Roshven, and thence
Sir William sent four pages about his reprint; next

day four more about slope of potential ; the same

evening eight more, highly mathematical ; and on 2 1 st

from the Sound of Sleat another missive, a leaf

(torn from   his  green-book) of            mathematics, which   he
describes   as "  a very pleasing            little nugget dug  out

of old 1847-8 neglected diggings since we left
Roshven this morning." But all was not plain

sailing, for the next letter tells of dire disaster.

784               LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                    CHAP.

                            ROYAL  HOTEL                                 PORTREE,

                                      July                               out of Isle
      DARWIN --We           I               (alas
                                             25/82.
                                a
DEAR                                                                !),
                            had beautiful sail

Ornsay and through the Kyles of Skye and Loch Alsh

on Saturday morning, and unfortunately neglected, in

consequence, to finish writing out the piece of theory of

the day before. It would have been quite satisfactory and

sufficient as to the elastic yielding of rock to weight of

water, and would have kept me quite busy enough to keep

me from practical experiment which made about 20
      a                                     I
                 a                                           (5 it
minutes after high water on its yielding (proving to be

very small) to much greater weight of wood and iron
than the load of air or water that you have been thinking

of. The result was that by the time of low water P.M.)
the wood had yielded very visibly and the rock not

perceptibly. We left    it  there, on Scalpa, about IO miles

from this, and were brought here in a friendly steam yacht

of 650 tons (Mr. Stewart's Amy) that chanced to pass
by when the result of the experiment was becoming

apparent. We were taken back next day, and Mr. Stewart

set his crew to help mine and we baled and pumped the

Lalla Rookh dry, and caulked the deck seams with tow

and tallow, having become apparent that was through
a                                           a
                                              it
              it
them that she had filled after the two previous low waters,it is
                                                           aa
and we had to jetison her by taking about ten tons of

matter out of her. She yielded half an hour after midnight

to third determined pull, which Mr. Stewart with splendid

resolution and courage gave her, and came off. The elastic

limits had been largely exceeded, and there                              large

contortion of the strata, giving a mountainous and pictur

esque character to deck and starboard side after the

removal of the stress but she makes even less water than
                     ;

she did before (which was very little, quite as little as                I it
ought to be), and she left this evening in tow of tug

telegraphed to Greenock for yesterday morning. She will

be made as good as ever very soon, in week or two                        I

hope, but not in time to come round with us to South

ampton. So am sorry to say our cruising, which was
                  I

an unalloyed pleasure till the last instant of when we

«x                 IN THE 'EIGHTIES                          785

were looking at a seal with our glasses, is over for the

season ; and we cannot ask you to come and settle the

earth's rigidity on board the Lalla Rookh (it having been

temporarily settled the other way so far as she is con

cerned). But we shall carry the war into the enemy's

country and have our revenge with you on terra miscalled

firma in some of the committee rooms at Southampton.

    The theory has, however, been developing itself (though

not on paper) very prettily. Let me know if what I

posted at Ornsay was sufficient, or at all events intelligible

as far as it went. I was going to put into proper shape

the reduction to calculable results which with m = oo would

have put into workmanlike shape the clumsy thing of

Roshven. This part of the affair is simply done by

taking in your crushing as unit of force the mutual

attraction between two grammes of matter concentrated

at two points   I   centimetre asunder   ("whpiecrh    for   copper
makes n = 450  x   io6 " grammes weight              square   centi

metre). I had got on, before or after the seal, I forget

which, to find the interpretation and an interesting physical

illustration of the correction to annul surface tangential

force which I had introduced in the Isle Ornsay despatch.

Here it is. \Here follow fourteen octavo pages of mathe
matics and diagrams, ending up\ . . . 90°, if the material

does not break, as was the case of the L.R., where no

doubt there was perfect tangency  aNt obtohuinngdinmgorlein. --e oYfoiunrtes,r
face between coppers and rock.

                                                     W. T.

    Other letters followed very quickly.

   July 30, NETHERHALL. -- We are much grieved to
hear of the death of Frank Balfour. It is indeed a sad

loss to the world, which can ill spare such men. We

...feel very much for you and quite understand Cambridge
being different to you without him.                  In haste to

catch post, or rather to be not late for church, as letters

must be posted before. . . .

    Aug. i, NETHERHALL. -- I must settle down now

786             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                              CHAP.

thoroughly to § 830 and subsequent sheets of T & T' to
the end. . . . You asked me why I chose so moderate a
slab of water in T & T' § 818. Answ. because it is

something we know about. Not very unlike, for example,

the actual effect of the water in the English Channel on a

plummet at St. Alban's Head.

     I have always admired Cavendish's experiment as

perfectly free from error due to yielding of the foundation.

His two attracting masses are supported on a pivot mid

way between, so that the pressure on the ground never is

changed during the experiment.

Aug. 2, NETHERHALL. -- I am returning Title-page,
Preface, and Contents of Math, and Phys. Papers, Vol.
           is

                T

                      &
                                              .
                                                                                       is
                                                                                    I.,
for press by this post. . . Reprint of Electrostatics and
                commenced, and Vol. II. of Papers to
Magnetism         T' let me.

begin as soon as

                                            SKIPNESS, ARGYLLSHIRE

                                            (Address NETHERHALL),
                                                    Aug. 14/82.
     DEAR  DARWIN -- Till              the  moment               Nether-
                                                    of leaving

hall on Saturday  was so driven, with                        multitude of
     T                                              a
                                                          a
         &I
              I

                  I
                         a II
                                     (I
unavoidables, that could not write word on any of

the points you have been writing to me about. On

Friday got the very last scrap of Vol. of Collected
                                                    is I.
Papers out of my hands for press, so that out of the

way, and have got fairly on to things for finishing

the T' vol., particularly the infinite homogeneous

solid bounded by plane wish you would give a non-
self-contradictory designation for this). It comes out
                  mean the complete problem of any
enchantingly,

arbitrarily given distribution of surface force                  com
                                                    I
                                                             (3
ponents, one normal and two tangential, for every point).

have been at      all my spare time since                    came here,
I
       I
            I

            T

                       it is &
                             it

                                   it
...and may possibly get written out for press to-morrow.
            shall look carefully to whether anything should be
                  T' as to the effect of the weight of the
put into

water on the elastic yielding. . . The plane-bounded
                                            .

infinite solid    too captivating to let me touch anything
else till get     off the stocks. -- Yours,
                                                                 W. T.

XIx  IN THE 'EIGHTIES                              787

    Southampton was the place of meeting of the
British Association in August 1882, under the
Presidency of Dr. (later Sir) William Siemens.
His brother Dr. Werner Siemens was a notable

guest ; also the veteran Professor Clausius. Thom

son read several papers ; on some new absolute
galvanometers ; on the transmission of force though
an elastic solid ; and on magnetic susceptibility.

He also gave an evening discourse on the Tides

(see p. 729).                                      pre

    A distinguished geologist present has
served the following account ' of this event : --

     . . . Sir William Thomson's lecture on the Tides,

which was given to a large audience, was good for all
who understood it. But Thomson himself was splendid ;
he danced about the platform in all directions, with a
huge pointer in his hand ; he shook in every fibre with
delightful excitement, and the audience were as delighted

as he.

     The adjourned Paris Conference on electric units

was to be in October.  On September 30 Sir

William, then at Netherhall, wrote to Lord Ray-

leigh asking if the date was to be the 16th, as there

appeared to be some misunderstanding.

     Dr. C. W. Siemens, who is with us just now, tells me
that you cannot be in Paris on the 16th, but I hope this
is not the case. We could get on but very badly without
you, and in fact I suppose your ohm must be declared

the one true ohm for our generation.

     To Darwin he wrote on October 12th : --

     I am going to-morrow to Newcastle to see Swan's light

     1 A Memoir of William Pengelly, p. 264.

788        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                      CHAP.

factory, and thence to Bolton's copper mills, Cheadle, on
my way to London.

    Thence he wrote to Lord Rayleigh :--

                                           GRAND HOTEL, TRAFALGAR SQUARE,
                                                   LONDON, W.C., Oct. 13/82.

    DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH -- I have at last received a

positive official notification that the 16th is fixed for the
Units Committee, and I am going accordingly to Paris on
that date. I don't leave London till Monday forenoon,
so if you have anything more to send by me I shall be
able to receive it by post. Dr. Siemens had left us when
your letter (which crossed mine to you) and paper for
him came, but I am to see him this evening and I shall
give it to him. I shall bring the other copies with me and

more for the members of the Congress if you will send

them.

     But will you not come to Paris after all, taking leave

of absence from Cambridge for the necessary time ? If

you would come on Monday and remain a few days it
would tend much to ease the way of the Congress to the
settlement of the ohm, not to speak of other questions.
Let me have a line here, unless you will cross over along
with us by the tidal train for which we leave Charing

Cross at 1 1 on Monday forenoon. -- Yours very truly,
                                                WILLIAM THOMSON.

    From Paris he wrote to Dr. Hopkinson about

the muddle :--

                                 H6TEL CHATHAM, RUE DAUNOU, PARIS,

     DEAR  HOPKINSON -- On  the   Oct. 17/82.       Lord

                                 20th of September

Granville answered the French authorities that the names

of proposed English delegates, and the fixture of the 16th

as the commencement of the meeting, had been com

municated to the Science and Art Department. So the

fault seems to have been in South Kensington. I hope

your telegram will bring it home to them, and, still more,

that you will yourself be here to-morrow.

xix  IN THE 'EIGHTIES                                        789

     Our Government seems to have determined to do as

little as possible, and I think you did quite right in

respect to the telegram you received yesterday morning.

    I think I must write a complaint, because I find

myself put down as a delegate from England in an
official list without having received any intimation that I

had been appointed ; and I only hear of it here through
the French. I shall not write, however, till I hear from or

see you and learn the effect of your telegram of yesterday.

I hope you will be here to-morrow, as the practical thing
to be done is really important. A commission of r 5 on
the measurement of the
morrow. You of course   ohm,   baeppooninitte. --d  to-day,    meets to
                         will                       Yours    very truly,

                               WILLIAM THOMSON.

    [P.S.] -- Helmholtz, Wiedemann, Kohlrausch, Lorenz,

Werner Siemens are all here, and all except Wiedemann
and Kohlrausch in this Hotel.

    The next letter to Lord Rayleigh tells of the
doings of the conference :--

                                HdTEL CHATHAM, RUE DAUNOU, PARIS,

                                                                    Oct. 19/82.

    DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH --We are all very sorry that

you have been unable to be at the Conference, and I am
charged to express " des vifs regrets " that you had been
prevented by illness.

     The sous commission on the fixation of the ohm

has held its last meeting to-day, and it is strongly im
pressed with the conviction that your number -9865 x IO9
is within ^^Q of the true value of the B.A. unit. (Would
you not rather, however, take as the most probable -9867,
being the mean of your result by the old B.A. method,

and your two by Lorenz's method, -9869 and -9867 ?) I

communicated this statement to them, from your letter, and
also the statement that probably the comparison between
the B.A. and the Siemens mercury unit, made independ

ently, is trustworthy to ^Q*OO. I also communicated your
printed slip, giving the results of your and Mrs. Sidgwick's

790  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                           CHAP.

comparison of the 4 tubes with the B.A. unit. This
will all appear in the report of the meetings. I believe

they would have decided on (-9867)"1 of the B.A. unit
(or corresponding numeric of the S. U.) for the ohm, but
that Friedrich Weber was there defending some carefully

made experiments of his own, which gave him -95 50 X IO9
for the Siemens unit, instead of -9413, as you and Mrs.

Sidgwick make it. It seems after all probable that it was

the particular one or two standards called Siemens units

which he had, that caused the discrepance, and that his

results may after all be found to agree closely with yours.

Helmholtz proposed and the sous commission adopted a

resolution to move (via the French Gov'.) for transmission
of individual standards from one to another of persons

who have made absolute determinations. This will be

very valuable, but I shall try to arrange with Fr. Weber

for an immediate interchange of standards between you

and him. Could you send me one here, which I could

receive by Saturday evening, or at the latest Sunday

evening, and give to him to take away with him. That

would settle the question, no doubt, in a few days. Or

with very little delay there might be an interchange

between you and him after he gets back to Zurich. He

is himself under the impression that you are right, and so

are Helmholtz and Wiedemann.

Our last general meeting will probably be on Monday

morning, and terminate the whole business of the present

session ; but no doubt there will be another this time next

year, and I think it is desirable there should be, because
I think, judging from the past, good and useful work

and conventions will be promoted by at least one other

meeting analogous to this and to last year's one.

Lady Thomson and I intend to be at Cambridge from

Friday or Sat. of next week to Monday or Tuesday

following, but I have not yet heard of the day for the

college meeting (the statutory 29th being Sunday), and I

do not know where we shall be staying.

I hope you are feeling much better, and quite well again
now. -- Yours very truly,
                              WILLIAM THOMSON.

XIX             IN THE 'EIGHTIES                                 791

    On November 27 Lady Thomson wrote to

Darwin to urge him to visit them :--

    Sir  --Wiallniadmtitlsea-pysageyo--u    and  he can settle about the
Preface                                   when   you come. Sir William

says he has written to ask T' to come from a Friday to
ifMonday (8th to l lth, you are here at that time) to help
to settle  the  question (he is           writing this   mcaommeenht)o. meS--ir
William    has  been very busy            ever since he

never a moment to spare ; he has dynamos, and sound

from double and multiple sources, such as tun1ng-forks, on
the brain. [The clauses printed in italics are in Sir W.'s

handwriting.]

    In December he went to Portsmouth to see
about the compasses of H.M.S. Polyphemus, a very
difficult ship for compass-compensation. And on

Christmas day he and Lady Thomson went to
Knowsley for the annual visit to Lord Derby.

    The revision of the Natural Philosophy lasted

on into the spring of 1883, and the designing of
electric measuring instruments was still a heavy
burden. In February Sir William gave a dis
course at the Royal Institution on the Size of
Atoms.1 In March he communicated to the

Royal Society of Edinburgh three papers : on

the Dynamical Theory of the Dispersion of Light,
on Gyrostatics, and on Oscillations and Waves in
an Adynamic Gyrostatic System. He wrote to
Darwin : " I have been very full of gyrostatics

lately, partly or chiefly brought on by my Royal

Institution lecture on Size of Atoms." To Lord
Rayleigh he wrote for information :--

           1 See p. 566 ; and Popular Lectures, vol. i. p. 147.

792             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                CHAP.

     DEAR LORD                              Ap. u, 1883,

                                        THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW.

                    RAYLEIGH -- I am to give a lecture at

the Institution of Civil Engineers on Electric Units on

the 3rd of May, and I should be much obliged if you
will tell me if there is any later work than what I know

already of yours, which made the B.A. unit =-98677

ohm.

     I am now regularly taking the Rayleigh (or true)
ohm as 1 -0134x6. A. unit, and making resistance
                    Also, I use now the Rayleigh (or
coils accordingly.

true) volt as greater in the same proportion, *'.«. = I -01 34 X
B.A. volt. I suppose this is very sure to be as near the

absolute truth as can appear in anything I am doing ;
but for the sake of my lecture I should like to know the

very last of what you have done ; and particularly to
know if you change the last figure from what I have.

     I am glad to hear from Darwin, who is with us just
now, that you are so much better. I hope you will not

be   troubled   bhyaradnyinrethtuernlaboof rathtoerye, noermoyth;erbwuitsey. o--u   must
not   work too                                                                     Yours

very truly,         WILLIAM THOMSON.

     The lecture on Electrical Units of Measurement

was given on May 3rd. The printed version in
Vol. I. p. 73 of his Popular Lectures gives but a
faint idea of the impression it made on the hearers.

The lecture began by emphasizing the necessity

in physical science of finding true principles for

numerical reckoning and methods for measuring.
" I often say that when you can measure what you

are speaking about, and express it in numbers, you

know something about it ; but when you cannot

             it,
                         is
                                     a

                                                             it
measure when you cannot express in numbers,

your knowledge      of meagre and unsatisfactory

kind." He commented on the advance made in

xix      IN THE 'EIGHTIES     793

electrical measurement. Ten years ago the scientific
instrument-maker scarcely knew whether the con
ductivity of his copper coils was within 60 per cent
of that of pure copper ; and the professors did not
know the resistances of the electromagnets in their
laboratories. Now all that was changed, and clerks
and junior assistants could measure the resistance
of wires more accurately than you could measure
the length of ten feet. Few lecturers, not even
himself, knew the capacity of the Leyden jars on
his lecture-table ! As to electromotive force, " we

have scarcely emerged one year from those middle
ages when a volt and a Daniell's cell were considered

practically identical." And this advance was due to

commercial requirements.

     There cannot be a greater mistake than that of looking
superciliously upon practical applications of science. The
life and soul of science is its practical application ; and

just as the great advances in mathematics have been
made through the desire of discovering the solution of
problems which were of a highly practical kind in
mathematical science, so in physical science many of

the greatest advances that have been made from the
beginning of the world to the present time have been
made in the earnest desire to turn the knowledge of the
properties of matter to some purpose useful to mankind.

     He then referred to the growth of the absolute

system of measurement ; to the British Association
Committee of 1861, and the "ohm " which resulted

from its eight-year-long labours ; to the Paris Con

ference of 1882, and the researches of Weber, of

Siemens, and of Lord Rayleigh and Mrs. Sidgwick,
VOL. II
                           P

794  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

 leading to the latest accepted values. Then with a
passing rap at British units he went off into a
disquisition as to the importance of absolute units

based on universal gravitation and on the semi-
period of an infinitesimal satellite ! The better to
realize an absolute system of measurement, and to
detach theirideas from terrestrial limitations, he asked

his hearers to imagine a scientific traveller roam

ing through the universe. " For myself," he said,
"what seems the shortest and surest way to reach
the philosophy of measurement is to cut off all
connection with the earth." And so he supposed
his scientific traveller to have lost his watch, his

measuring rod, and his tuning-fork, and to be
trying to recover the values of the centimetre
and the mean solar second ; the former, by the
aid of a diffraction grating (which he himself must
rule on glass) and the spectrum of the sodium flame
seen through it ; the latter, by making a re-
determination of the ohm, or by experiments on
electric oscillations with a coil and a condenser !
Well do some of those present remember that
bewildering excursus. After thus filling an hour

and a quarter, he announced that he had only
reached the threshold of the subject, and must
now commence the consideration of electrical units.
He referred to the B.A. reports ; recalled how he
had himself constructed sets of conductance coils

(w^o-boxes) thirty years before ; praised the "magical
accuracy" of Joule, whose refined thermal experi
ments had first raised a doubt on the value of the

MX      IN THE 'EIGHTIES                795

B.A. unit. He ended by naming the things still

needed to perfect the system of absolute measure
ment, and recommended the audience to purchase
Everett's book on Units, -- price three and sixpence!

    May was spent partly in London and partly in
festivities at Cambridge. Before going north to join
his yacht Sir William wrote to Lord Rayleigh :--

     I have nothing, at all events as yet new, in the way of
dynamos, and I am afraid most of my other practical

affairs, integrators, domestic volt-meters, mho-meters, regu

lators, etc., are also in the future tense or paulo-post-
futurum. (Can there be such a tense, or do I misremember
my grammar ?)

    To von Helmholtz, who had the previous year

been .ennobled by the German Emperor, he

wrote :--

        YACHT LALLA ROOKH, GARELOCH, CLYDE,

                                               June 17, 1883.

    DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- A note I have from Lockyer

seems to imply that you have not yet received a copy of

the second part of the new edition of Thomson and Tait's

Natural Philosophy. I directed a copy to be sent to you,
immediately on the publication of the book ; but I shall

write again to the publishers to make sure that they send

it,     they have not done so already.

  I if  hope you received in due time the 2nd edition of

the first part, and also the first volume of my collected

Mathematical and Physical Papers.  a    directed the pub

                                     I
lishers in each case to send you copy immediately on

publication.
     We have now been afloat and at home on board the

Lalla Rookh for fortnight, with weekly visit to the
        aa                         a

Laboratory, and we shall be oscillating between the two
L's for the greater part of the summer. Will you not

come and have cruise with us, either in July in the

796            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                 CHAP.

Solent or in August in the Clyde? If you could come

to us in August or September you would find us with
one foot on shore occasionally, at " Netherhall," a house

we have built for ourselves at Largs (but now I remember
you saw it), but which the superior attractions of the
Lalla Rookh keep us from living in so much as we would

otherwise like. The British Association meets on the

19th of September at Southport (near Liverpool), and if

you would come to us in September early enough to have

some good sailing first, we might go there together. We
hope Mrs. Helmholtz will be able to come with you, and

you must tell her not to be deterred by the idea of the
yacht if she is not a good sailor, as any time after the middle

of August the house on shore will always be available.

    In the Laboratory I have been greatly occupied with

electric measuring instruments, chiefly for practical pur
                                                                                                    One that I hope
otpoor she"ascvoecuolngonomeinbcgtedvmeewrytietrhso"o--enle--Ictratichginlyikgrohstwitnaogtui.cld
                                                                                                   current integrator,

                                                                                                    interest you. I

have also a new electrometer and some arrangements of

galvanometers to give moderately accurate absolute deter

minations through very wide ranges. I need not tell you

about them now, however, as I hope you will come and

see them all.

    Lady Thomson joins in kind regards to you and Mrs.

Helmholtz, and I remain, yours always truly,
                                              WILLIAM THOMSON.

    In the summer of 1883 Sir William took his
brother James and his wife and two daughters for a

cruise.

    On coming on board the ladies were amused to
find that each of the two learned professors had pro

vided himself with a copy of Jack Brag at the rail

way book-stall, and had brought it with him as light
literature to read on the yacht. The two brothers
had long interesting talks, interspersed with reading

x!x  IN THE 'EIGHTIES  797

aloud Jack Brag; and there were pleasant walks
when the yacht was at anchor. The cruise was

delightful ; there was good sailing weather, though
one of the days was so stormy as to make it

advisable to seek shelter behind the Otter Spit in
Loch Fyne.

   A letter from Lady Thomson to Professor

Darwin, dated from Otter Bay, Loch Fyne, on
June 24th, takes up the tale of their doings.

     . . . We have been on board the Lalla Rookh ever
since we returned from London at the beginning of the

month, sailing about the Clyde and taking a weekly run

to Glasgow for a few hours at White's and in the
Laboratory. We expect to go to London again for a

few days early in July, and we shall probably let the

yacht sail round to Portsmouth to wait for us. If you

are inclined to offer us a visit in the L.R. when we are
in the Solent, we shall be very glad. We hope to be at
Netherhall for about a month, till the ipth Sept., when
we go south for the B. A., and then for Sir Wm. to give his
address in Birmingham as President of the Birmingham
and Midland Institute ; and then we go off to Vienna,
where he is one of the Government Delegates to the
Electrical Exhibition, so our time at Largs will be limited
to about a month from 2Oth August to ipth Sept I

tell you all this that you may know our movements, and

may plan to come to us accordingly. . . .

     After going to Ireland for the opening of the
Portrush electric railway, Sir William and Lady

Thomson went to Southport for the British Associa
tion meeting on September igth. He read two

papers, one on Gyrostatics, and one on Asymmetry
of Crystals.

798  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

The Address to the Midland Institute at

Birmingham, on October 3rd, was on the Six
Gateways of Knowledge. It dealt with the per

ception of the senses, the sixth sense in his
enumeration being the sense of temperature, which
he carefully discriminated from the sense of force

or tactile sense, with which it is usually confounded.

    Dealing with the possibility of a seventh sense --
a magnetic sense -- which, in spite of the failure of

all attempts to detect it by powerful electromagnets,

he still considered just possible, he took the
opportunity to denounce " that wretched supersti
tion " of spiritualism.
                         The section dealing with

sound and music, and with the mathematical view

of sound, is of extreme interest. Mathematics he

averred to be etherealized common sense, as logic

is etherealized grammar.

    After Birmingham came the visit to the Electrical
Exhibition at Vienna. Sir William made experi
ments there with M. Abdank on batteries, and

admired Ganz's large alternator. Returning via
Berlin he spent four days with von Helmholtz,

and reached England on November 3rd.
    This year he presented to his old college, Peter-

house, in commemoration of the 6ooth anniversary

of its foundation, a complete installation of electric
light. The plant consisted of a small Lancashire

boiler and horizontal engine, driving a Ferranti

alternator and a Siemens exciter. It was used for

the first time on the Queen's birthday, 1884; and
after twenty-five years the same machines are still

xix  IN THE 'EIGHTIES  799

doing excellent work. Sir William also designed

the needful switches and details for pendants and

other fittings. The cost to him of this gift cannot

have been less than ^"2000, and is believed to have

been more.

    On November 21 Sir William wrote to Darwin
from Glasgow that he was going to Cambridge to

stay a few days at Peterhouse to settle details about
the electric lighting.

     The sad news of the death of Sir William Siemens
came on us like a thunderbolt. We had travelled home
from Vienna together, stopping in Berlin on our way, and
I had just three days before his death answered a letter

he had written me (now, as it appears, after he had
been suffering from the fall), in which he said nothing
of being ill, and was full of new plans for meeting at

Sherwood, Cambridge, etc. It is a very great distress

to us.

    And on the 26th Lady Thomson wrote : " We
have been at Sir W. Siemens's funeral to-day. His
death has been a great grief to Sir William --so

much so that I felt I must come up with him and
look after him." An obituary notice by Thomson
of his friend appeared in Nature of November 29th.

    In presenting to Sir William Thomson the
Copley Medal on November 30, the President of
the Royal Society, Professor Huxley, pronounced
the following eulogium :--

     The number, the variety, and the importance of Sir

William Thomson's contributions to mathematical and
experimental physics are matters of common knowledge,
and the Fellows of the Society will be more gratified

8oo LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

than surprised to hear that the Council have this year
awarded him the Copley Medal, the highest honour which

it is in their power to bestow.
     Sir William Thomson has taken a foremost place

among those to whom the remarkable development of
the theory of thermodynamics is due ; his share in
the experimental treatment of these subjects has been
no less considerable ; while his constructive ability in

applying science to practice is manifested by the
number of instruments, bearing his name, which are at
present in use in the physical laboratory and in the tele

graph office.
     Moreover, in propounding his views on the universal

dissipation of energy and on vortex motion and molecular
vortices, Sir William Thomson has propounded concep
tions which belong to the prima philosophia of physical
science, and will assuredly lead the physicist of the future

to attempt once more to grapple with those problems
concerning the ultimate construction of the material
world, which Descartes and Leibnitz attempted to solve,
but which have been ignored by most of their suc

cessors.

Returning home, Sir William wrote to Lord

Rayleigh, urging him to take up electrostatic

measurement. There was further correspondence

between them through the winter on electrical

units, as another International Conference was

fixed in Paris for April 28, 1884, Moreover, Lord

Rayleigh had been chosen as President of the

British Association for the meeting to be held

in Montreal in August 1884, and Sir William

Thomson was once again asked to preside over

the Mathematical and Physical Section.  The

following selections from the letters of this time

deal with some of these matters :--

x1x                IN THE 'EIGHTIES                             801

                         THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

                                                             Jan. 20/84.

     DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH -- I send you the " Units "

lecture and two others.

     Many thanks for the information about Weber and

the spinning method. The apparatus used by the B.A.

Committee was made for me by White in Glasgow, and

put to some rough tests by myself before it was put into

the hands of the Committee, whose first reported experi

ments with it must have been made about January 1863.
I don't know if anything of it was published before Aug.

1863, but I think it must have been in 1861 or early in

1 862 that I set about having it made. If I find any

notice of it prior to Aug. 1863 (or to Weber's date) I
shall tell you, but it is not a matter of importance. I

shall look for Weber's paper, however, immediately.
I had never seen it and only knew of the Electro-
                              I shall be greatly
dynamische Maasbestimmungen.

interested to hear more of your silver weighings and

further conclusions as to a standard for E.M.F. I suppose

from your letter that you find Clark's all trustworthy to

less than -2 or -3 per cent ?
     I am working hard at potential galvanometers to serve

up to 200 volts, and electrometers for above that ; and

mho-meters to serve for practical current-meters, also

integrators and regulators. As to electrometers, I had

made the cylindric form roughly and heavily, which for

absolute determinations has, as you say, the advantage of

requiring no guard-border. But I thought the small flat

disc easier to realize for work in potentials so small as

200 volts.

    I   hope  you  have been profiting by your   --staYyouinrs  Bath,
        that  you  are now feeling much better.                  very
and

truly,                        WILLIAM THOMSON.

   P.S.-- Have you decided when and how you go to

Montreal ?

802        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                   CHAP-

                                THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

                                                                         21st Feb. 1884.

     DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH -- I should be very glad to

hear from you how you use the Clark cell to get such

constant results in respect of potential. I find that it

varies enormously, and shows great polarization when

allowed to flow through as great a resistance as 1 5,000

ohms. I could not use it with any good results for my

potential galvanometers, whether by a zero method such

as that of Poggendorff or other, unless it were confined to

showing on an electrometer its potential, or the equality

of its     p--otBeenltiieavl e  to that of some point  of one  of my
circuits.
                                me, yours very truly,

                                WILLIAM THOMSON.
     P.S. -- I am getting results that promise to come

within £ per cent by a new form of Daniells (I described

it in the Telegraphic Review and the Electrician about 3

weeks ago). I was sorry not to be able to look for you

in the Laboratory when I was in Cambridge one day

about a fortnight ago.
                                                 THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,
                                                                     March 5/84.

    DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH -- The Cunard Company have

offered Lady Thomson and myself free passage to

America and back in one of their ships. So we leave, in
the Aurania if possible (that is if times suit), about the
end of July. I hope this may also suit you and Lady
Rayleigh. It will be very pleasant if we can make the

voyage together.

    As to my new form of standard Daniells, I have been
getting excellent results ever since I wrote to you last.

Here is a specimen of some got to-day in a new

departure in the way of systematic short-circuiting. . . .

     My newest long-range potential galvanometer          I is,  when

no resistance                   added to its circuit, to have, think,
           I
                  I is                                           Its
exactly 1000 R[ayleigh] ohms for its resistance.

constant   shall probably determine by                 5  of the new

cells in series.                am, however, also making new forms

of electromagnetic standardizers (on the fundamental

MX                                            IN THE 'EIGHTIES                    803

principle of Weber's electrodynamometer), which are

promising well, and may possibly in practice prove as

accurate as the standard cells.

    I hope in a few days to be able to send you a
specimen of my new standard cell. I have been waiting
to do so till I should get the plan fixed. Now I am

only waiting till I can get a few cells made on a plan
which I am fairly satisfied with as fixed. -- Yours always
                                                                     W. THOMSON.
truly,

    DEAR  LORD                                                              UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,
                                                                                   Ap. 25/84.

                                              RAYLEIGH -- We set out to-night for

Paris and hope to arrive to-morrow evening. Hdtel

Chatham, Rue Daunou, will be our address. I should be

very glad to hear from you your latest results, or to know-

that there in the hands of some member of the Congress
        a
           is,
in Paris, printed paper, or papers, describing your work

and results, also Glazebrook's, as to ohm specially, but also

volt and electrochemical equivalent. A line or two from

you to me, telling me what you would now take as the
most probable value of the B.A., and the length of the
column of mercury that, with im/m section, at o" cent,
has resistance equal to the true ohm.

          have an electrodynamometer (current standardizer)
in progress, to give very good sensibility with current of
I5
     I                                        but fairly sensitive, hope, with

             2
                          3

                           I
                                    it

                                       it ;
    amperes through                                                  II
                                                                               it
from to am.                                   hope next week, or at all events withinit

a fortnight from now, will be ready to be sent to you.

hope these strengths are not too great to be convenient

for measurement by your standard (though remember

you said about of an amp.). The resistance of my new
        a

             \

                                a

                                   I8
instL will be only about x io7 = x>8 ohm), so                                      will
                                                                 a(
be very easy to get strong enough current through to

give good sensibility, but am afraid you may not get so

strong current easily in series with yours, which has far

higher resistance.

  Excuse this                               scrawl, written  in     Senate meeting at which
am assisting
I                                           --Yours truly,         WILLIAM THOMSON.

                                           !

804          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                      CHAP.

    On June 22 he wrote again :--

    I have a very promising table of expts. from my

laboratory this morning, which seems quite to promise one

very simple ampere-gauge with a range of I to 100

amperes.

    The last week of June was spent with Sir
Anthony Hoskins on board H.M.S. Hercules, with

the reserve squadron, on a cruise to Heligoland and

the Orkneys.                              NETHERHALL, LARGS, AYRSHIRE,

                                                               Aug. 4.

DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH -- Please don't forget to tell

the printers to send me your Address. I leave Glasgow

for L'pool on Friday, and L'pool on Saturday in the

Servia ; and I hope to receive it before I leave. (Will
you let me have a proof though not finally corrected, if a

finally corrected one cannot reach me in time.) We are

very sorry you are not coming with us in the Servia.

    I have made great advance (I think) in standard-
current measures, for all currents from IO milliamperes

to 1000 amp5- (or as many more as are to be measured

in any case). I shall tell you about it when we meet.
It is founded on the tendency of a ball or cube of soft

iron towards places of greater force (c X rate of variation of
R2 in any direction = the component force in that direction,
R being the " resultant magnetic force " of the field). This
action, I find, is not sensibly influenced by magnetic re-

tentiveness, and is very closely in proportion to the

square of    thraengsetr. e--ngYthouorsf  the current,  through  the  whole
practicable                               very truly,

                                          WILLIAM THOMSON.

                                                  THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,
                                                               Aug. 6/84.

    DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH --Many thanks for the proof
of your Address. I am very sorry, however, that I have

put you to the trouble of sending me one with some of

xix                IN THE 'EIGHTIES             805

your corrections written on it I thought the printers
could have sent me one or I would have waited. I
enclose you a copy of my Section A address. I hope the

meeting, and generally your visit to America, will prove

rather a rest and refreshment to you than a fatigue, but I

shall remember what you say, should there seem to be

any occasion for guarding against overwork. I hope the

press-men (interviewers or others) will not prove a great

plague !
     I am a good deal troubled about the new milliampere-
                     I
meter just now, but      hope to-morrow I     m--ayBesleiee vethinmges,
going better about   it   in the laboratory.

yours very truly,        WILLIAM THOMSON.

     These letters show how greatly Sir William's

time was taken up with his instruments. Von

Helmholtz, too, had been struck with this earlier

in the spring when paying a round of visits to

his English friends, Tyndall, Huxley, Roscoe, and

others.

     He found Sir William absorbed in regulators and

measuring apparatus for electric lighting, and  for
                                                he
electric railways.       To Frau von Helmholtz

wrote :--

    On the whole, however, I have an impression that Sir

William might do better than apply his eminent sagacity

to industrial undertakings ; his instruments appear to me
too subtle to be put into the hands of uninstructed work

men and officials, and those invented by Siemens and
von Hefner Alteneck seem much better adapted for the
purpose. He is simultaneously revolving deep theoretical

projects in his mind, but has no leisure to work them

out quietly ; as far as that goes I am not much better off.
    Then immediately he adds :--
    I did Thomson an injustice in supposing him to

be wholly immersed in technical work ; he was full of

806  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

speculations as to the original properties of bodies, some
of which were very difficult to follow ; and, as you know,
he will not stop for meals or any other consideration.

    Sir William had indeed weighty matters on hand.
He had agreed, more than a year before, to give in
Baltimore, in the autumn of 1884, a course of lectures,

as will be related in the next chapter ; and he had

chosen as the topic molecular physics, in relation

to the wave-theory of light. His address for the
British Association at Montreal was also in process
of evolution, and the ever-haunting idea of a kinetic
explanation of the properties of matter was again

uppermost.

    The title of the Montreal address was " Steps
towards a Kinetic Theory of Matter." Beginning
with the molecular processes that go on in a gas
according to the kinetic theory, and throwing out
a suggestion that the condition for equality of

temperature between two gaseous masses is equal
average amounts of kinetic energy per molecule, he
discussed the nature of the repulsive motion which
apparently characterises the action of free molecules

during the impact at every collision. We must
regard each molecule as being either a little elastic
solid or else a configuration of motion in a continuous
all-pervading liquid. The first step toward a mole
cular theory of matter had been this very kinetic
theory of gases, of which all we had to the present
time would be equally true if a gas consisted
 mechanically of little round, perfectly elastic solid
pieces of matter flying about. But the difficulty

x.x      IN THE 'EIGHTIES            807

remained unsolved that if each molecule is a con

tinuous solid the whole translational energy must

ultimately become transformed into vibrational

energy.  Even apart from this difficulty, the

elasticity of a gas was, on this theory, only explained

by making an assumption much more complex and
more difficult to explain -- the elasticity of a solid.
This led him on to the next possible step, the

possibility of explaining kinetically that property
of matter which we call elasticity, as being itself
a mode of motion. He therefore restated the

principal points of his former lecture (see p. 743
above) on elasticity, and again described the
gyrostatic model by which he imitated a common

spring balance by use of fly-wheels, themselves

devoid of elasticity. Another kinetic model could

be imagined having irrotational circulation of a

perfect liquid through apertures in solids immersed

in it. Vortex rings and coreless vortices, under

conditions consistent with stability, could also

present phenomena like elasticity, the elasticity

being due in reality to motion.

    To the sectional meetings at Montreal Sir

William made two communications : on a gyrostatic

working model of the magnetic compass ; and on

safety-fuses for electric circuits.

     The Montreal meeting over, many of the

scientific men in attendance travelled south, via

Niagara Falls, to Philadelphia, where an electrical

exhibition was being held, and where also the

American Association for the Advancement of

808            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Science was holding its session. Here Sir William

read a paper (the title only appears in the Proceed
ings) on the distribution of potential in conductors

experiencing the electromagnetic effects discovered

by Hall.
    While in Philadelphia Sir William was induced

to deliver, in the Academy of Music, on September
29, a popular lecture on " The Wave Theory of
Light." This lecture,1 as all who were present will
remember, gave an excellent summary of points in

the elementary theory of light, and touched upon the
problem of the propagation of waves in the ether ;
elucidation being afforded by a model of a molecule
embedded in jelly ; while the mobility of matter

through the ether was illustrated by the ready, if

slow, passage of leaden bullets by their own weight
through shoemakers' wax. The lecture was enlivened

by several characteristic passages :--

     " You in this country are subjected to the British
insularity in weights and measures." " I hope the teaching

of the metrical system will not be let slip in the American

schools any more than the use of the globes." " I look

upon our English system as a wickedly brain-destroying
...piece of bondage under which we suffer." " The lumin-
iferous ether  is the only substance we are confident

of in dynamics. One thing we are sure of, and that is

the reality and substantiality of the luminiferous ether."
" Some people say they cannot understand a million

million. Those people cannot understand that twice two

makes four. That is the way I put it to people who talk

to me about the incomprehensibility of such large numbers.

I say finitude is incomprehensible, the infinite in the

1 Reprinted in Popular Lectures, vol. i. p. 300. See also p. 1035 infra.

xIX          IN THE 'EIGHTIES                         809

universe is comprehensible. . . . What would you think
of a universe in which you could travel one, ten, or a

thousand miles, or even to California, and then find it
come to an end ? Can you suppose an end of matter or
an end of space ? The idea is incomprehensible."

    From Philadelphia Sir William and Lady Thom

son travelled on to Baltimore for the lectures which

he was to give at the Johns Hopkins University.
    Lady Thomson wrote on October 7th from the

Mount Vernon Hotel, Baltimore, to Professor

George Darwin :--

     I hope you had a good voyage home. We have had

nothing but hot weather since you left We have never

been able to keep in cool regions. We were two days in

Boston and Cambridge, which we enjoyed very much.

The only cool days we have had were at Southampton in

Long Island, Sag Harbour and Shelter Island, on our way

to Boston. We had to come back to Philadelphia on our

way here, as Sir William had promised to give a lecture
there on the 29th on the " Wave Theory of Light."

     We came on here on the 3Oth, and we have been quite

glad to be quiet in one place, but the heat continues very

trying at night as well as in the day. Everything is hot

and dry and parched. The leaves of the trees are falling

instead of   colouring,  and the perpetual blue    skwyeaisthqeur --ite
fatiguing !     We are     very tired of this hot

thermometer rarely below 80°. Sir Wm. is enjoying his

lectures, I think, as much as his audience. They are

going on capitally, and he has a most eager, interested

audience of about 60 or 70, which is double what they

expected, many of them Professors from all parts of the

States.

     But the Baltimore Lectures constitute so not

able an episode that they require a chapter to

themselves.                                        Q
   VOL. II

                 CHAPTER XX

                      THE BALTIMORE LECTURES

A UNIQUE episode in the career of Lord Kelvin

was the course of twenty lectures on Molecular
Dynamics which he delivered at Baltimore in the

late summer of 1884. At a time when most of the
American Universities were mere High Schools,

with little or no post-graduate instruction, the
Johns Hopkins University of Baltimore stood out
alone in realizing that the glory of a university lay
in advanced post-graduate studies and research.
Not only did she fill her chairs with the leaders
of thought, but she sought to free them from
academic routine and administrative drudgery that
they might the better labour for the few ripe
students capable of high instruction. And to this
she added the function of inviting European pro
fessors of distinction to give short courses in the
lines of their own individual work. An invitation
to deliver such a course was addressed to Sir

William Thomson in 1882 :--

                                                                 810

CH. xx THE BALTIMORE LECTURES  8n

PRESIDENT D. C. GILMAN to SIR WILLIAM THOMSON.

                          JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY, BALTIMORE,
                                                Aug. 1 3th, 1882.

DEAR SIR WILLIAM THOMSON -- I am very sorry that

so long an interval has elapsed since your kind reply to

an overture which Professor Sylvester made to you by

my request, in respect to your coming to Baltimore and

delivering some lectures. I beg you to hold me responsible

for this delay, and to exonerate him entirely. There was

a strong possibility that I should visit your country during

the present summer, and if I had been able to do so, a

personal interview would have enabled me to explain to

you some circumstances which it would be tedious to

dwell on in writing, particularly in regard to the time

of your coming. But as my going is postponed, I write

to say that the warm weather is a serious obstacle to

work at the late period which you named, and the highest

advantages of your visit would be promoted by an earlier

appointment, if you can possibly make one. Prior to
April 15, and after October i, would be the periods most

useful, and we should hope that you would lecture to

advanced students in physics on such topics as you would

choose yourself. If, during the winter of '82-3 or of
'83-4 you could be persuaded to visit Baltimore, I would

at once ask the Trustees to make you a formal propo

sition in place of this unofficial and informal letter.

From what has been said by my colleagues, Profs. Syl

vester and Rowland, and by Prof. Wolcott Gibbs, I

believe that the announcement of a University Course

of lectures by you in Baltimore, on topics of your own
choice, would give a strong impulse to the study of

Physics in this country. I should also hope that your

visit would be made pleasant in many ways.

    If Lady Thomson has not forgotten an American

visitor who took lunch with you in 1875, I beg leave

to present my high regards, and I am, dear sir, very truly

yours,                D. C. GILMAN,
     Sir W. Thomson.
                              President J. H. U.

812        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                         CHAP.

    The letter is endorsed thus in Sir William's hand:
" Recd. Sep. 2, Netherhall. Answd. Sep. 5, accept

ing for Oct. 1883, cond'. on permission to defer, by

notice not later than July 1/83, to Oct. 1884." The

response which follows was handed to Prof. Rowland

for delivery to Sir William, whom he expected to
meet in Paris :--

                              JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY, BALTIMORE,
                                                              Oct. 12, 1882.

     DEAR SIR -- I have the pleasure of replying to your

note of Sept. 6 by entrusting these lines to the hand of

my colleague Prof. Rowland, who hopes to see you soon
in Paris, and to talk over with you the subject of your
proposed lectures. I beg leave to assure you that your
acceptance of our overtures has given great pleasure to all

of our company who have heard of our correspondence.
We hope it will prove to be possible for you to come to
us in the autumn of 1883, but if not, the welcome will be

in store for you in 1884.
     This is an unofficial note. I hope in a few days (after

their meeting, Nov. 6) to send you a formal note from

our Trustees. Meanwhile I am, dear sir, yours with high

regard,               D. C. GILMAN.

           JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY, BALTIMORE,

     DEAR  SIR -- My                [November, 1882].  has

                      colleague, Professor Rowland,

returned from the Electrical Congress, and I am extremely

sorry to find that he did not deliver the enclosed letter,

nor have any conversation with you in respect to your

proposed visit.

    I have been formally requested by the authorities of

the University to invite you to come here and lecture at

any time in the course of the next academic year con

venient to you. We are somewhat at a loss as to what

pecuniary compensation to offer you for this service.

Supposing that you could hardly be persuaded to stay in

xx              THE BALTIMORE LECTURES                          813

Baltimore more than a month, the Committee proposed

that I should offer you your travelling expenses to and

from Glasgow, and the sum1 of $1000.
    Allow me to repeat the assurance that we will do all

in our power to make your visit pleasant, and we believe

that your influence in the promotion of science in this

country, by such a visit to this University, would be very

strong, and would extend far beyond the immediate com

vpiasnity--ofI  your hearers,  and far beyond   the period  of  your
                am, dear sir,  yours with high  regard,

                                                D. C. GlLMAN.

    Sir W. Thomson, F.R.S., etc.

    Lord Kelvin's own account of the matter is
given in his preface to the printed volume of 1904 :--

     Having been invited by President Gilman to deliver
a course of lectures in the Johns Hopkins University, on
a subject in Physical Science to be chosen by myself, I

gladly accepted the invitation. I chose as subject the
Wave Theory of Light, with the intention of accentuat
ing its failures ; rather than of setting forth to junior
students the admirable success with which this beautiful
theory had explained all that was known of light before
the time of Fresnel and Thomas Young, and had pro
duced floods of new knowledge splendidly enriching the
whole domain of physical science. My audience was to
consist of professional fellow-students in physical science ;

and from the beginning I felt that our meetings were to

be conferences of coefficients, in endeavours to advance
science, rather than teachings of my comrades by myself.
I spoke with absolute freedom, and had never the slightest
fear of undermining their perfect faith in ether and its
light-giving waves by anything I could tell them of the
imperfection of our mathematics ; of the insufficiency or
faultiness of our views regarding the dynamical difficulties
of ether ; or of the overwhelmingly great difficulty of
finding a field of action for ether among the atoms of

                       1 [The sum eventually agreed upon was .£400. ]

8 14  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

ponderable matter. We all felt that difficulties were to
be faced and not to be evaded ; were to be taken to heart

ifwith the hope of solving them possible ; but at all events

with the certain assurance that there is an explanation
of every difficulty, though we may never succeed in find

ing it

    The lectures were delivered to an audience of

twenty-one regular attenders, including some of the
first physicists of the day, as may be seen from a

few of the names :--

    Lord Rayleigh (England) ; H. A. Rowland
(Baltimore, Md.) ; Eli W. Blake, jun. (Providence,
R.I.) ; Cleveland Abbe (Washington, B.C.) ; Albert
A. Michelson (Cleveland, Ohio) ; Fabian Franklin
(Baltimore) ; Arthur S. Hathaway (Baltimore) ;
George Forbes (England) ; Henry Crew (Wil
mington, Ohio); Louis Duncan (Baltimore); A. T.
Kimball (Worcester, Mass.); Arthur L. Kimball
(Baltimore); T. C. Mendenhall (Columbus, Ohio);
Edward W. Morley (Cleveland, Ohio); R. W.
Prentiss (Baltimore), etc. There was also a con

siderable number of casual attenders.

    The course began on October i, and ended on
October 17. The lectures were either at 3.30 P.M.

or at 5 P.M. ; on five days at both times. Generally
each lecture was divided into two parts, with a

ten minutes' interval, during which the lecturer

chatted with his students. From the first Sir
William adopted an unconstrained conversational

style, treating his hearers rather as fellow-workers
in the problems under investigation than as an

audience to be addressed ex cathedra. They, in

xx  THE BALTIMORE LECTURES  815

their turn, worked for him by hunting up references,
searching the University library for books, and
tabulating solutions of problems ; informally consti
tuting, as he himself jokingly suggested, an arith
metical laboratory. His " twenty-one coefficients"
they were called by one of themselves, in pleasant
suggestion of the twenty-one coefficients by which in
the most general case the elasticity of a body is
denned.

    Sir William Thomson had written out none of

the twenty lectures beforehand ; he had not indeed
formulated a systematic skeleton of the series. Part
of the extreme interest of the course arose indeed

from his unpreparedness. Admitted to the very
laboratory of his thoughts, his hearers became eye
witnesses of his methods, his amazing intuitive
grasp, his headlong leaps, his mathematical agility,
his perpetual recurrence to physical interpretations,
his vivid use of mechanical analogies, and his in
cessant resort to models, sometimes actual, some

times only mentally visualized, by which his meaning
could be conveyed. His audience began to see
that here was a man who, instead of taking at
second - hand what other workers had found or
written, thought things out for himself from first
principles, making discoveries even while lecturing ;
and enjoying the surprise of finding that some of
the things he was newly discovering for himself
had already been discovered and published by

others. For instance, on page 282 1 we find :--

1 The references are to the pages of the original papyrographed edition of 1884.

816  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

    I was thinking about this three days ago, and said to
myself, " There must be bright lines of reflexion from

bodies in which we have those molecules that can produce
intense absorption." Speaking about this to Lord Rayleigh
at breakfast, he informed me of this paper of Stokes's,
and I looked and saw that what I had thought of was

there. It was perfectly well known, but the molecule

first discovered it to me. I am exceedingly interested
about these things, since I am only beginning to find out
what everybody else knew, such as anomalous dispersion,
and those quasi-colours, and so on.

    And again (p. 1 20) :--

    I am ashamed to say that I never heard of anomalous
dispersion until after I found it lurking in the formulas.

    Happily for all concerned, one of the audience,
Mr. A. S. Hathaway, who acted as reporter, was

not only a trained mathematician, but an expert
stenographer. Within three months a verbatim
report of the lectures was produced by the papyro-
graph process in a limited edition which is treasured

by its fortunate possessors. A graphic account of

the lectures was also published in Nature 1 by one
of the " coefficients," Professor George Forbes.

    The difficulties in the way of accepting the wave
theory of light Sir William stated as four in number: --

    First. Dispersion. -- The difficulty is to explain
how the period of vibration of light of different
colours can affect the velocity of their propagation

through a medium, and can cause some colours to

be more refracted than others. Of this phenomenon

     1 Nature, vol. xxxi. pp. 461-463, 508-510, and 601-603 ; March 19,
April 2, and April 30, 1885. The author has, by the kind permission of
Prof. George Forbes, drawn freely on these articles.

xx  THE BALTIMORE LECTURES                                817

two explanations have been offered. The first is

that of Cauchy, who ascribed it to heterogeneous-

ness : some of the molecules in the structure must

have sizes not infinitely small compared with that
of the wave-length. The second is due to Helm-

holtz, who supposes the molecules to have a com

pound structure such that they have natural periods

of vibration of their own. The space occupied by

a molecule must be filled with a substance differing

from the ether either in rigidity or in density, or

in both respects. Thomson preferred Helmholtz's

view, and in his first lecture set himself to devise

a new model molecule consisting of a thin rigid

shell, to the interior of which masses were fastened

by springs. Several varieties of the spring-shell

molecule were devised during the course of the
lectures, and models of them shown. " It seems to
me," he summed up, " that there must be something

in this, that this, as a symbol, is certainly not an

hypothesis,   but a certainty" (p.  12).  difficulty  is  in
     Second.                        the
               The Ether. -- Here

mentally conceiving a medium so highly rigid that

it propagates vibrations with the enormous velocity

of 186,000 miles a second, and yet is so perfectly

mobile that the earth and the heavenly bodies can

apparently sweep through it without being retarded.
This difficulty Sir William brushed aside as " not

so very insuperable." To him there had long been

an explanation, drawn from the behaviour of solid
pitch or of Scotch shoemakers' wax. This sub

stance is a brittle solid, of which you might make

8l8          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                              CHAP.

a rod that can vibrate like a rod of glass. But if

a slab of it two inches thick is laid on the top of

water in a glass jar twelve inches in diameter, and

leaden bullets are placed on the top of the slab, in

a few weeks they will be found to have passed
right through it. The difference between the ether
and the wax was a question of time. Let the

luminiferous ether be looked upon as a wax which

is elastic for excessively rapid vibrations, but capable

of yielding to stresses that are of longer duration.
" We do not know at this moment whether the

earth moves dragging the luminiferous ether with

it,

                a

                         it

                                                       if

                                                                          it
    or whether moves more nearly as                                           were
through frictionless fluid " (p. 8). If we consider

the exceeding smallness of the period of a wave of

light, we need not despair of understanding the

property of the ether.

    It no greater mystery at all events than the shoe
     is
                             is

                                  is
                                          a

                                                                          ;

                                                                  it
                                                                                        is

                                                                                                                                       ;
makers' wax. That       mystery, as all matter                                                                                            the

luminiferous ether no greater mystery. We know the

luminiferous ether better than we know any other kind

of matter in some particulars we know in respect to

the constancy of the velocity of propagation of light of

different periods (p. 9).              body of most extreme
     Luminiferous ether must be      a
                                                       is
simplicity.a        may perhaps be soft. We might imagine

                It
it  to be body whose ultimate property to be incom

pressible to have definite rigidity for vibrations in times
     ;              a

       a
less than certain limit, and yet to have the absolutely

yielding character that we recognize in wax-like bodies
                                       sufficient time. It
when the force      is  continued fora
                                         a

                                                     it,
                                                         I
seems to me that we must know great deal more of the

luminiferous ether than we do. But instead of beginning

with saying that we know nothing about                      say that we

xx        THE BALTIMORE LECTURES                                                                                                             819

know more     about it than we do about air or water,                                                                                        glass
              is far simpler ; there is far less to know.                                                                                    That
or iron --it

is to say, the natural history of the luminiferous ether is

an infinitely simpler subject than the natural history of

any other body (p. 10).

    Another striking passage from the first lecture

is --

    In the first place, we must not listen to any suggestion

that we must look upon the luminiferous ether as an ideal

way of putting the thing. A real matter between us and

the remotest stars I  bthealiet vme atthteerre--ism, oatniodnsthjautstligsuhct hcoanssiasrtes
of real motions of

described by Fresnel and Young, motions in the way of

transverse vibrations. If I knew what the magnetic theory

of light      might be able to think of in relation to
    it                                         it
            is,                                       is
             I

                                      it
                                         is l
the fundamental principles of the wave-theory of light

But seems to me that                           rather a backward step from

an absolutely definite mechanical motion that put before

us by Fresnel and his followers to take up the so-called

electromagnetic theory of light (p. 6).

    Third. Refraction and Reflexion. --The difficulty
here of different order. Green's equations for
    is
             a

the refraction and reflexion of polarized waves of

light do indeed approximately yield results for the
relative amounts of light that are refracted and
reflected at different angles of incidence but when
                                               ;

followed up not qualitatively only, but quantitatively,
they differ considerably from the facts. For ex

ample, they fail to account for the almost complete
extinction observed in the reflexion of polarized

light at the polarizing angle.

   Fourth. Double Refraction. -- In this case the

       This passage and others of similar import led his audience to conclude
that at that date the lecturer had never read Clerk Maxwell's book
    1
                                                                                                                                          !

820  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

difficulty is that according to the elastic theory, when

the medium is displaced during wave-propagation,
the forces tending to restitution must depend on
the plane of the distortion, whereas if the Huygens

wave-surface is true they must depend, not on the

plane of the distortion, but on the direction of the
vibration. And this is inadmissible, because Stokes

has found by minute experiment that the Huygens

wave-surface is most accurately obeyed by light.
    The difficulties to be faced having been thus

stated, the rest of the course was devoted to their

discussion. But each difficulty had to be regarded
from three points of view: (1) the propagation of
a disturbance through an elastic medium regarded
as a whole, or from the molar standpoint ; (2) the
character of molecular, as distinguished from molar,
vibration ; (3) the influence of molecules on the
propagation of waves. Some of the lectures were
definitely divided into two parts, one devoted to
the molar, the other to the molecular view.

    With the second lecture began a systematic
mathematical exposition of the equations of motion
in an elastic solid, with their three principal dis
tortions and three principal dilatations, and the

twenty-one coefficients by which they are related

in the quadratic function expressing the general

equation of energy. With the second half of the

lecture an abrupt change was made to consider an
apparatus consisting of three heavy masses sus

pended below one another by spiral springs, and
which was shown to possess three independent

xx  THE BALTIMORE LECTURES  821

periods of vibration, depending on the stiffnesses
of the springs and the values of the attached masses.
The dynamical problem presented by the apparatus
led to the equations of motion for an elastically
embedded molecule. In the third lecture the two

divisions of the subject were each further elaborated.
The treatment is intensely characteristic of Sir
William Thomson's methods. He scorned all

formulas (he himself always said formulas, not for
mulae), however neat, if they merely served as

mathematical exercises, or gained their apparent
precision from the adoption of unwarranted assump

tions. All his formulas must have a physical meaning,
even if he had to load them with the symbols of
undetermined quantities, --seeming, indeed, to glory

in the possibilities of future discoveries which lay
behind the equations. He would write them out

on the black-board in full, though they might have

been left to be inferred from considerations of
symmetry. " The expenditure of chalk," he re
marked, " is often a saving of brains." Again and

again he referred to the aphasia of mathematics, its

inarticulateness to express physical ideas. "The

old mathematicians used neither diagrams to help

people to understand their work, nor words to

express their ideas. It was formulas, and formulas

alone. Faraday was a great reformer in that re
spect, with his language of ' lines of force,' etc."

Again, after a mathematical argument, turning on
the circumstance that the differential coefficient of

a certain continued fraction with respect to the

822      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                CHAP.

period was essentially negative, he illustrated the

inference by drawing attention to the effect of apply

ing a push or a pull at the end of the movement of
one of his vibrating models, and remarked : " From

looking at the thing, and learning to understand it

by making the experiment if you do not understand

it by brains alone, you will see that everything I

am saying is obvious." Yet he quoted approvingly
from Green the words, " I have no faith in specu

lations of this kind unless they can be reduced to
                   "
regular  analysis         and  he  praised  Stokes that  he
                       ;

"speculates, in a way, but is not satisfied without

reducing it to regular analysis."

     In the fourth lecture he dealt with the difficulty

that in the solid elastic theory a displacement must

give rise not only to lateral vibrations (propagated

by shears or distortions in the medium), but also

to a longitudinal or pressural wave (propagated in

virtue of compressions and rarefactions in the

medium). Yet apparently in the luminiferous ether
there is nothing found that corresponds to this

compressional wave.

     We ignore this condensational wave in the theory of
light. We are sure that its energy, at all events, if it is
not null, is very small in comparison with the luminiferous

vibrations we are dealing with. But to say that it is

absolutely null would be an assumption that we have no

right to make. When we look through the little Universe
that we know, and think of the transmission of electrical
force, and of the transmission of magnetic force, and of
the transmission of light, we have no right to assume that

there may not be something else that our philosophy does
not dream of. We have no right to assume that there

xx  THE BALTIMORE LECTURES  823

may not be condensational vibrations in the luminiferous
ether. . . . The fact of the case as regards reflexion and

refraction is this, that unless the luminiferous ether is

absolutely incompressible, the reflexion and refraction of
light must generally give rise to waves of condensation.
Waves of distortion may exist without waves of conden
sation, but waves of distortion cannot be reflected at the
bounding surface of two mediums without exciting in each
medium a wave of condensation . . . and may after all
the law of electric force not depend on waves of con

densation ? (p. 41).
      Suppose that we have at any place in air, or in lumin

iferous ether (I cannot distinguish now between the two

ideas) a body that, through some action we need not
describe, but which is conceivable, is alternately positively

and negatively electrified ; may it not be that this will be
the cause of condensational waves ? Suppose this, that

we have two spherical conductors united by a fine wire,

and that an alternating electromotive force is produced in

that fine wire, for instance with an alternating dynamo-
electric machine ; and suppose that sort of thing goes on

away from the disturbance -- at a great distance up in the

air, for example. The result of the work of that dynamo-
electric machine will be that one conductor will be alter

nately positively and negatively electrified, and the other

conductor negatively and positively electrified. It is
perfectly certain, if we turn the machine slowly, that in
the neighbourhood of the conductors we will have alter

nately positively and negatively electrified elements with
reversals, perhaps two or three hundred per second of

time, with a gradual transition from negative, through zero,

to positive, and so on ; and the same thing all through

space ; and we can tell exactly what the potential is at

each point. Now, does any one believe that, if that revo

lution was made fast enough, the electrostatic law would

follow ? Every one believes that if that process be con
ducted fast enough, several million times or millions of
million times per second, we should be far from fulfilling
the electrostatic law in the electrification of the air in the

824  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

neighbourhood. It is absolutely certain that such an

action as that going on would give rise to electrical waves.
Now it does seem to me probable that those electrical
waves are condensational waves in luminiferous ether ; and
probably it would be that the propagation of these waves
would be enormously faster than the propagation of

ordinary light waves (p. 42).

    This notion of a pressural wave haunted the

lectures almost to the end. In the seventeenth

lecture, dealing with reflexion and refraction at an

interface in a case where the forces across the

interface are balanced, he continued :--

    That leaves a clean simple problem of dynamics, and

yet people have been working at it for fifty years and
have left it in a very sadly muddled condition, with the
exception of the clear, accurate, and very comprehensive
papers of Green and Rayleigh. The thing that has intro
duced the difficulty, and makes this a more complicated
difficulty than the other cases, is the pressural wave. The
pressural wave, in fact, has been the bete noir of this

problem. I do not know how Cauchy treats the animal.

Somehow, he introduces fallacious terms involving con

sumption of energy. MacCullagh and Neumann killed

the animal with bad treatment Sam. Haughton yoked
it to an Irish car, and it would not go. Green and Ray
leigh have treated it according to its merits, and it has
escaped whipping at their hands (p. 233).

    In the fifth lecture, after a preliminary dis
cussion of the periods of vibration of one of his
spring models, Sir William suddenly interrupted
himself in a passage which, as corrected, runs :--

    No more of this now, however. It is fiddling while
Rome is burning to be playing with trivialities of a little

dynamical problem when phosphorescence is in view, and

xx        THE BALTIMORE LECTURES                                                          825

when explanation of the refraction of light in crystals is

waiting. The difficulty not to explain phosphorescence
                           is,
                                                               is    so little of
and fluorescence, but to explain why there

sensible fluorescence and phosphorescence. This mole

cular theory brings everything of light to fluorescence and

phosphorescence. The state of things as regards our

complex model-molecule would be this Suppose we have
                           I
this handle moved backwards and forwards until every:
    is
                                          a
           aP                                   is
thing in perfectly periodic state. Then suddenly stop

moving P. The system will continue vibrating for ever

with complex vibration which will really partake some
    a

thing of all the modes. That, believe,                               fluorescence

(P- 55).

    From this there was developed consideration
of the question of the actual constitution of ordinary
light. Lord Rayleigh, at Montreal, had emphasised
the distinction between the velocity of group of

waves and that of the waves themselves --
                                                                     :a
                                                                               is
    seems to be quite certain that what he said true.
    It
                           difficulty which has only occurred to me
       I
                 is

                        a
But here

since began speaking to you on the subject and                                            aI
                                                                     .;
hope, before we separate, we shall see our way through it.

All light consists in a succession of groups. . . Take

any conceivable supposition as to the origin of light, in

flame, or wire made incandescent by an electric current,
          a

                       if
                                                                  ;

                                                        a
or any other source of light we shall work our way up

from these equations which we have used for sound to

the corresponding expression for light from any conceiv

able source. Now we conceive source consisting of                                         a

motion kept going on with perfectly uniform periodicity,

the light from that source would be plane-polarized, or

circularly polarized, or elliptically polarized, and would

be absolutely constant. In reality there                                                multi
                                                                     it
                                                                             is

                                                                                     a
                                                                                       R
plicity of successions of groups of waves, and no constant

periodicity. One molecule, of enormous mass in com

parison with the luminiferous ether that                             displaces, gets

   VOL. II

826       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                           CHAP.

a shock, and it performs vibrations until it comes to rest

or gets a shock in some other direction ; and it is sending

forth vibrations with the same want of regularity that is

exhibited in a group of sounding bodies consisting of
bells, tuning-forks, organ-pipes, or all the instruments of

an orchestra played independently, in wildest confusion,

every one of which is sending forth its sound, which, at

large enough distances from the source, is propagated as

if there were no others. We see thus that light is essentially

composed of groups of waves (p. 5 6).
     I want to lead you up to the idea of what the simplest

element of light is. It must be polarized, and it must
consist of a single sequence of vibrations. A body gets a

shock so as to vibrate ; that body of itself then constitutes

the very simplest source of light that we can have ; it
produces an element of light. An element of light con

sists essentially in a sequence of vibrations. . . . One of
you has asked me if I was going to get rid of the subject
of groups of waves. I do not see how we can ever get

rid of it in the wave-theory of light. We must try to

make the best of however (p. 66).it,
        have tried to represent sudden start, and
I              a                                 ?      gradual
    I                a                               a
falling off in intensity. Why sudden start Because

believe that the light of the natural flame, or of the arc

light, or of any other known source of light, must be the

result of sudden shocks from  a  number of vibrators

(P- 95)-

    One exceedingly subtle point was raised, to  a
which no answer appears yet to have been given,                    aa
viz. whether, at the commencement of the impact
of a beam of light for, say, the first thousandth of
second, there will not be an initial state of things
different from the subsequent steady state, with
kind of initial fluorescence, and possibly different
refraction or reflexion from that subsequently

persisting.

xx        THE BALTIMORE LECTURES                            827

    Sellmeier had deduced from Fizeau's experi
ments that in each train of waves there was no
serious falling off for 50,000 vibrations. Is the
diminution of amplitude in the course of several
million vibrations practically nil ? Possibly not : it
was a dynamical question. Helmholtz had intro
duced into the equations certain terms to explain
possible diminution by viscosity.

     I must still say that I think Helmholtz's modification
is rather a retrograde step. It is not so perhaps in the
mathematical treatment ; but at the same time Helmholtz
is perfectly aware of this kind of thing that is meant by
viscous consumption of energy. He knows perfectly
well that that means conversion of energy into heat ; and
in introducing it he is throwing up the sponge, as it were,
so far as the fight with the dynamical problem is concerned

(P- 98).

   A characteristic passage indeed, showing the

constant habit of appraising a mathematical argu
ment by its physical bearings. But, again, the

formulas must be studied from another point of view,

as is shown by the following passage relating to the

determinantsof the equationsof connected masses: --

    Now, as to the calculations. I do not suppose anybody
                                           '
is going  to make  these   calculations       but I always  feel in
                                         ;

Irespect to arithmetic somewhat as Green has expressed
in reference to analysis.  have   mnoagsantitisufdaect--ionatinalfloremveunltass,

unless I feel their arithmetical

...when formulas are intended for operations of that kind
(p. 72).  I should think something like an arith

metical laboratory would be good in connection with

class work, in which students might be set at work upon

    1 Some of them were, in fact, made by Prof. E. W. Mcrley during the
course, to Lord Kelvin's great satisfaction.

828  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

problems of this kind, both for results and in order to
obtain facility in calculation (p. 73).

    Throughout the lectures there are frequent
references to Lord Rayleigh's investigation of the
polarization of light in the sky, and its blue colour,
attributable to the presence of minute particles.
This has a bearing on the question of density and

rigidity of ether :--

     The observed polarization of the sky supports the
supposition (which is as much as the incertitude of the
experimental data allows us to judge) that the particles,
whether they be particles of water, or motes of dust, or
whatsoever they may be, act as if they were little portions
of the luminiferous ether of greater density than, and not
of different rigidity from, the surrounding ether.

    By the end of the ninth lecture the spring-shell

molecule had undergone many modifications to
afford an explanation of anomalous dispersion and

other optical properties. With the tenth lecture
the propagation of waves, and the energy equations

for waves advancing in a medium, came into dis
cussion. In connection with this the audience was

recommended to read the memoirs of Poisson and

of Cauchy. "The great struggle of 1815 (that is

not the same idea as la grande guerre de 1815) was,
who was to rule the waves, Cauchy or Poisson ? "
He therefore suggested to the arithmetical labora
tory to take up the case of wave-propagation in

which the velocity is dependent on the wave-length.
The spring-shell molecules were again to be taken
and put into the ether, and the question examined,

xx  THE BALTIMORE LECTURES                                                           829

what will be the velocity of propagation under
various hypotheses as to the masses of the attached
molecules, and how much it will be modified by
their presence ? Cauchy and Poisson give only

symbols, and occasionally numerical results : they

do not give any diagrams or graphic representa

tions ; it would repay any one going into the
subject to work out graphically all varieties of the
problem of deep-sea waves.

    At this point of the course the advance was

made from elastic solids that are isotropic to those
which are aeolotropic,1 or have unequal properties in
different directions. This led back again to Green's
twenty-one coefficients or moduluses in all their

generality ; and again there were new models pro
duced to illustrate aeolotropic conditions, to facilitate
a dynamical theory of the propagation of light in
crystalline media. One of these was a parallelepi-
pedal structure with eight rings at the eight corners,
connected by cords running through the rings along

the edges of the parallelepiped.
    Now Navier's and Poisson's theory of elasticity

give as an essential a fixed relation between the
compressibility and the rigidity, such that if it were

true it would make an incompressible elastic solid

impossible. On this the comment is :--

    It is curious that they did not notice that jelly is

    "1 In a later passage (p. 2 14) we find : In a structure as a whole, properties
are produced in virtue of the manner of the structure. In fact, all structures
of iron-work, ties,                                   are such that if we imagine a          of
them put together    a--ndbubilrtaciunpg,s,    etc.,  were, like bricks-- we should  myriad  an
                                             as it                                     have

aeolotropic elastic solid."

«30             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                            CHAP.

practically incompressible. It is a wonder that they did

not try and see that                      did not fulfil Poisson's ratio.
     :                         a
Their mistake was due to the vicious habit in those daysit
         is
of not using examples and diagrams. In the Mecaniqueit,

celeste you find no diagrams, nor in Lagrange, nor in

Poisson's splendid memoir on waves (p. 129).

    Then follows                   passage intensely character
istic --

Although the molecular constitution of solids supposed

in these remarks and mechanically illustrated in our

model not to be accepted as true in nature, still the
construction of mechanical model of this kind un
                   a It a a a                     is
doubtedly very instructive, and we could not be satisfied is

unless we could see our way to make a model with the

eighteen independent moduluses. My object to show

how to make mechanical model which shall fulfil the

conditions required in the physical phenomena that we

are considering, whatever they may be. At the time when

we are considering the phenomena of elasticity in solids,          aI
want to show model of that. At another time, when

we have vibrations of light to consider, want to show
                                          I

model of the action exhibited in that phenomenon. We

want to understand the whole about        it      we only under

                                               ;

stand part.                  seems to me that the test of " Do we or
     a

do we not understand a particular point in physics "
" Can we make mechanical model of " have an
                                                               ?

                                                                      is

immense admiration for Maxwell's mechanical model ofa

                                            it

                                                 ?

                                                   a

                                                     I
electromagnetic induction. He makes model that does

all the wonderful things that electricity does in inducing

current, etc. and there can be no doubt that mechanical
                ;

                       a
model of that kind             is  immensely instructive, and  is  a

step towards                 definite mechanical theory of electro-

magnetism (p. 132).

    This use of the model as affording a mentala
picture of system endowed with particular pro

perties was now to be directed to elucidating the

xx     THE BALTIMORE LECTURES                                                       831

theory of the propagation of light through crystal
line media. The way was not yet quite clear.

    But if the war is to be directed to fighting down the
difficulties in the undulatory theory of light, it is not of

the slightest use towards solving our difficulties for us to

have a medium which will kindly permit distortional

waves to be propagated through
       is

                                 .

                                                         is
                                                             a it,

                                                                                    it
                                   even though                                          be

aeolotropic. . . What we want      medium which, when

light  refracted and reflected, will under all circum

stances give rise to distortional waves alone (pp. 141-142).

    In short, the difficulty of the compressional wave,

which Green's theory did not exclude, was again

cropping up. While pointing out that this difficulty

could be disposed of by simply assuming incom-

pressibility in the medium, and reiterating that the

lack of any corresponding facts of observation

proved that any such action,       exists, must be
                                   is

                                                     if

                                                            it
                                                                                 a
exceedingly small, the lecturer affirmed his belief,

not "as a matter of religious faith, but as matter

of strong scientific probability," that such waves

exist, and that the velocity of this unknown con

densational wave the velocity of propagation of

electrostatic force.

    In discussing the properties of aeolotropic solids
Sir William Thomson referred to Rankine's nomen

clature by which he sought to elucidate the elasticity

of solids --
I
                   :

                                a
         must read to you some of Rankine's fine words.

. . . Any one who will learn the meaning of all these
words will obtain large mass of knowledge with respect
to an elastic solid. The words "strain" and "stress"
are due to Rankine, " potential energy " also. Hear the
grand words " Thlipsinomic, Tasinomic, Platythliptic,
       :

             832               LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                           CHAP.

             . . . Plagiotatic,Euthythliptic,etc."(p. 161). . . . I explainedit,it
             to you yesterday Rankine's nomenclature of thlipsinomicIa
             and tasinomic coefficients. In a certain sense these may
             be all called moduluses of elasticity. I have defined aI

It           modulus as a stress divided by a strain, following the          it it
                                                                                                            a
           itanalogy of Young's Modulus. If we adhere to that then

             the tasinomic coefficients are moduluses, and the thlip
             sinomic coefficients are reciprocals of moduluses (p. 183).
             . . . Rankine was splendid in his vigour and the
             grandeur of his Greek derivatives. Perhaps he overdid

                 but do not like to call an error. We cannot all
             use his words, but we learn from them in reading his
             papers. Instead of his " platytatic " and " platythliptic "
             coefficients use the much less grand and more colloquial
             expressions " sidelong normal " and " sidelong tangential "
             coefficients (p. 185).

                  Shortly after the middle of the course new

             model was introduced, which was immediately

             dubbed the " wiggler." A steel wire was hung

             vertically, and five or six horizontal wooden laths,

             two feet long and two inches wide, were attached
             across one above the other. These laths were

             loaded at their ends with weights, the weights on

             each lath being smaller than those on the one above

             it. The lowest of the laths was connected to

             bifilar pendulum by which forced vibrations of

             various periods could be impressed on the system.
                  illustrated the action of a compound loaded

             molecule when subjected to vibrations from an

             external source. By this model was shown that

             the system possessed several critical periods, each

             corresponding to the natural period of some one of

             the successive vibrators. At the critical period for

             any one vibrator all those below are vibrating in

xx    THE BALTIMORE LECTURES                  833

one direction, while the particular vibrator and all

above it are moving in the opposite direction.

The model is admirably adapted to explain absorp

tion and also anomalous dispersion.

    And so the lectures went on from day to day

with delightful discursiveness. Here and there a

reference to Stokes-- " I always consult my great
authority, Stokes, whenever I get a chance " --

or a hit at the " brain-wasting perversity of the

insular inertia which still condemns British

engineers to reckonings of miles and yards and feet

and inches, and grains and pounds, and ounces and

acres " -- or an ejaculation that " there are no

paradoxes in science " ! Questions by the hearers
set the lecturer off on new trains of thought.

Discussions started at the lecture were continued

at the supper table. The whole seemed one ani

mated conference. But the continual discursive

ness of the lecturer became ominous. " How long
                                    "
will  these   lectures  continue       asked  President
                                  ?

Oilman one day of Lord Rayleigh, while walking

away from the lecture-theatre. " I don't know," was
the reply ; " I suppose they will end some time, but

I confess I see no reason why they should."

    Lecture sixteen introduced the question of the
mass of the ether. " We have not the slightest

reason to believe the luminiferous ether to be im

ponderable."  To this in November 1899 Lord
Kelvin added an emphatic note, " I now see that

we have the strongest possible reason to believe

that the ether is imponderable. . . . But is there

834              LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                               CHAP.

any gravitational attraction between different
portions of ether ? Certainly not. . . . We must
believe ether to be a substance outside the law of

universal gravitation."
    In the later lectures there was a discussion of

the so-called rotation of the plane of polarization by

quartz, discovered by Arago, which was explained

by ascribing to the medium a spiral molecular
structure ; and of the true rotation by magnetism of
the plane of polarization, discovered by Faraday.
These properties again were illustrated by models
-- the latter effect being simulated by a new kind
of molecule with a gyrostat spinning within the
shell. But having thus devised a crude model Sir

William set it at once aside :--

      Why do I not go into and try to make a part of
                            ?
    our molecular dynamics                                         cannot
                              it,
                                 I

                                                               it
                                                              I
                            answer, because

    bring out the law of inverse proportionality to the square

of the wave-length, which observation shows to be some

    what approximately the law of the phenomenon. Until

      week ago,     thought that by putting  fly-wheel
it a             I          I

                                               a
                                                   a
    somehow or other into our molecule could get rotary

    effect, according to which the magnitude would vary

    according to two terms, one inversely as the wave

    length, the other inversely as its cube. . . But, alas my
                            ;

                                            is .
                                                     I

                                                     i,
                                                                                                !
    results give me another law not more effect with greater

    frequency, but less effect with greater frequency, accord

    ing to the square of the wave-length.    therefore lay

      aside for the present, but with perfect faith that the

    principle of explanation of the thing there (p. 243).

      In an appendix, added November                               1884,

    and incorporated in the stenographic Report, Sir

    William Thomson described an "improved gyrostatic

xx  THE BALTIMORE LECTURES  835

molecule " having, within a massless spherical shell,
two fly-wheels on an axis jointed with a ball-and-
socket joint between them, producing a gyrostatic

effect when the molecule is accelerated in any direc

tion except along the axis. If one imagines minute

gyrostatic molecules of this sort embedded in the
ether, the influence of their rotation on the trans-
lational motion will, if they are small enough, give
the same law as that observed by optical experi

ment.

     Most of the following lectures were subsequently
rewritten in later years by their author ; but as

originally given they well deserve careful study.
The twentieth lecture, in particular, is too good
to be lost. It began by a reference to Rankine's
suggestion that in a crystal its inertia might be
different for forces in different directions. This

suggestion, for which there is no observed founda
tion in physics, he connected with Rankine's theory
of molecular vortices, and remarked on the sug-

gestiveness of the title :--

     Rankine was that kind of genius that his names were
of enormous suggestiveness ; but we cannot say that always
of the substance. We cannot find a foundation for a great

deal of his mathematical writings, and there is no explana
tion of his kind of matter. I never satisfy myself until I

can make a mechanical model of a thing. If I can make

a mechanical model I can understand it. As long as I
cannot make a mechanical model all the way through I

cannot understand ; and that is why I cannot get [this is
probably the reporter's Americanism for the word "accept"]

the electromagnetic theory. I firmly believe in an electro
magnetic theory of light, and that when we understand

836  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

electricity and magnetism and light we shall see them all

together as parts of a whole. But I want to understand
light as well as I can, without introducing things that we
understand even less of. That is why I take plain
dynamics. I can get a model in plain dynamics ; I

cannot in electromagnetics. But so soon as we have
rotators to take the part of magnets, and something
imponderable to take the part of magnetism, and realize
by experiment Maxwell's beautiful ideas of electric dis
placements, and so on, then we shall see electricity,
magnetism, and light closely united and grounded in
the same system (pp. 270-271).

   If the nett result of these lectures was to leave

the impression that the difficulties in the way of the
wave-theory of light -- and in particular those con

nected with reflexion, refraction, and double-

refraction --were still unsurmounted, it certainly
left on the hearers no sense of despair. The

optimism which would leave an undecided problem

in perfect faith that the ultimate solution would be

forthcoming in due time was as notable as the

determination to attack the difficulties all the more

strenuously because they were difficult. As the record
of a piece of living intellectual effort it would be hard

indeed to find a parallel to these twenty Baltimore

lectures. They left their mark on physical science
in two continents, and influenced Lord Kelvin's
thought for the rest of his life. His own farewell
to his audience was brief: --

     I am exceedingly sorry that our twenty-one coefficients
are to be scattered ; but though scattered far and wide, I
hope we will still be coefficients working together for the

great cause we are all so much interested in. I would be

xx  THE BALTIMORE LECTURES  837

most happy to look forward to another conference, and
the one damper to that happiness is that this is now to
end, and we shall be compelled to look forward for a time.
I hope only for a time, and that we shall all meet again
in some such way. I would say to those whose homes
are on this side of the Atlantic, come on the other side,

and I will welcome you heartily, and we may have more

conferences. Whether we have such a conference again
on this side or on the other side of the Atlantic, it will
be a thing to look forward to, as this is looked back upon

as one of the most precious incidents I can possibly have.

I suppose we must say farewell (p. 288).

    At a dinner-party the previous evening, given
by President Oilman to Sir William Thomson and

his band of hearers, the following humorous verses

were read by one of their number, whose identity is

sufficiently attested by the signature :--

THE LAMENT OF THE TWENTY-ONE COEFFICIENTS IN PARTING
     FROM EACH OTHER AND FROM THEIR ESTEEMED MOLECULE.

An aeolotropic molecule was looking at the view,
Surrounded by his coefficients, twenty-one or -two,
And wondering whether he could make a sky of azure blue
With platytatic a b c, and thlipsinomic Q.

They looked like sand upon the shore, with waves upon the sea,
But the waves were all too wilful and determined to be free ;
And in spite of «'s rigidity they never could agree
In becoming quite subservient to thlipsinomic P.

Then web-like coefficients and a loaded molecule,
With a noble wiggler at their head, worked hard as Haughton's

        mule;

But the waves all laughed and said, "A wiggler, thinking he

         could rule

 A wave, was nothing better than a sidelong normal fool."

TSo the coefficients sighed, and gave a last tangential skew,

 And a shook hands with b and c and S and and U,
 And with a tear they parted ; but they said they would be true
 To their much-beloved wiggler, and to thlipsinomic Q.

              Signed (g.f.) A CROSS COEFFICIENT NOW ANNULLED.

838     LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                               CHAP.

    Before leaving Baltimore, Sir William gave, by
request, a lecture to students in Hopkins Hall on
The Rigidity of the Earth.

About a year later the twenty-one coefficients

subscribed for one of Professor Rowland's fine

diffraction gratings, and sent it as a present to
Sir William Thomson. The pleasure this gave

him is recorded in the following letter to Prof.

T. C. Mendenhall :--

DEAR PROF. MENDENHALL --GILAwSrGoOteW,to$tPhroDfe.c.Ro18w8l5a. nd

acknowledging the receipt of the grating, but I ought before

now to have thanked all the other Coefficients for their

kindness in giving it to me. I should feel greatly obliged
if you would transmit to those of the Coefficients who are

in America my heartiest thanks for their great kindness,

and say to them that it will be a permanent memorial to

me of the happy three weeks of 1884 when we were

together in Baltimore.

One of the Coefficients, Prof. Davies, is here just now

in Glasgow, but I am sorry to say he is very unwell. . . .

After the British Association Meeting at Aberdeen I

was delighted to be able to show the grating to some of

our English appreciators, including one of the Coefficients,

George Forbes, and Lord Rayleigh (whom we may con

sider as at all events a partial Coefficient), and to Prof.

Fitzgerald of Trinity College, Dublin, Oliver Lodge of

Liverpool, Glazebrook of Cambridge, and Capt. Creak of

the Compass Dept. of our Admiralty, who came to stay

with us at Netherhall, our country house, for a few days

on their way south. We had no sunlight to work with,

but we got the double sodium line in the first and second

spectrums from a salted spirit-lamp flame exceedingly well,

and we were all delighted with the result. I had never

myself seen anything like it  before.  regards. -- Yours  very
     Lady Thomson joins me    in kind

truly,                        WILLIAM THOMSON.

xx  THE BALTIMORE LECTURES  839

    On December 25, 1886, Sir William wrote to
Professor Mendenhall, sending to the Coefficients
a little Christmas greeting in the shape of copies
of a series of articles on Stationary Waves in
Flowing Water. To the last he looked back
with unalloyed pleasure to the days spent at

Baltimore.

    CHAPTER XXI

    GATHERING UP THE THREADS

SIR WILLIAM THOMSON was now sixty years old.
He had, as we have seen, declined in 1871, and

again in 1879, to occupy the Cavendish Professor

ship at Cambridge. In the autumn of 1884 it
became known that Lord Rayleigh, who had filled
it with great distinction since Clerk Maxwell's death,
would not longer hold the Chair. For the third
time overtures were made to Sir William Thomson.
His letter to George Darwin speaks for itself: --

                               THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

--  DEAR DARWIN --    I   am afraid it     Nov.  2b0e/8--4. alas,  alas
                         be too great.  cannot                     root
    The wrench would
                                        I began taking

here in 1831, and have been becoming more and more

fixedly moored ever since. I have things in train here to

allow me to make the most of my capacities for work, and

to make a new departure such as the Cavendish Laby- and

ProfP- would be a life's work  again.   Who ever   becomes
professor must devote himself   to the            excellent
                                        work--an

thing for any one beginning life, or looking for a fixed
place in scientific work. To me it could not be otherwise

than wholly a diminution of effective work. Similar

questions have been before me, on several occasions, since,

in fact, the first foundation of the Cambridge Chair, and

in some other important directions. Each time I felt

                         840

CHAP, xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 841

forced to the conclusion that Glasgow was the place for

me. I have continuously felt ever since that the conclusion
was right : and I feel more strongly than ever that my

work is cut out for me here, and that any change would

...be a loss, however tempting in every way the change

might be.

    I am frightfully under water about work for Baltimore

(supplements I want to send off, at the latest, next week)
for the papyrograph of my lectures there. This has kept
me from answering your letter about Canadian tides. I

thoroughly agree with your letter as far as I can judge,

but I want to look at charts and tide tables to see if I

have anything else to suggest. Next week I hope to do
so. I hope meantime you are not inconvenienced by my

delay.

ProfMesysowriinfe. --joYinosurins  kind regards   to  you  and  the  Plumian
                                   always truly,

                                                  WILLIAM THOMSON.

    On December 7 Sir William again wrote, suggest
ing that Stokes should be urged to take the chair,
and discussing possibilities. He added :--

    I am still at high pressure for Baltimore Lectures
report ; sending a despatch of supplement every mail. I

am at the moment in great trouble about thin metallic
films. The rotation of the plane of polarization due to
magnetism in a thin translucent iron film (discovered by

Kundt, see Phil. Mag., Oct. '84) will not come out right,
to agree with Kerr's result for reflection at a polished pole,

and my formula for both. I have been under torture
nine days about this.

On 1 2th Lady Thomson wrote to Darwin that

they were coming to Cambridge on igth, and this

time to Peterhouse, because of the electric lighting

and the impending Sexcentenary. "Sir William,"
she said, " is much exercised over the Cavendish
VOL. II
                                                                     S

842             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN      CHAP.

Professorship. . . . My man is Professor Tait. . . .
Sir William never goes to Edinburgh and to his
laboratory without saying what a splendid experi
menter he is : but he could not take it even if there
were any chance of his getting it. The emolument
would be an insuperable barrier. He has much

more where he is."

    To Sylvester, Sir William wrote on December

18:--

    Till a few days ago I have been desperately hard at

work on supplements to my Baltimore Lectures, which I

have been sending to Mr. Hathaway to be incorporated
with his shorthand report. I got my last despatch away

only last Saturday, after which I felt delightfully free ;

but of course shoals of other things came on which had
been delayed, so I have not had much breathing time yet.

     Among these other matters were three papers

read to the Edinburgh Royal Society, and details of

electric lighting inventions, which form the topic of

the following letters of December 3 and December 9

respectively, to Professor J. A. Ewing :--

                         THE UNyIVdERDSeIfT.Y,18G8L4A. SGOW,

     DEAR EWING -- I have been thinking over your form

of spring for the lamp-holder, and I have come to the

conclusion it could not be patented usefully. . . .

Curiously enough, in connection with my flat spring
holder for lamps, I have, in all my hanging lamps at

Peterhouse, a spiral spring on the wire which holds the

lamp glass, with exactly the same kind of elasticity acting,

as you have chosen for giving the horizontal forces I want

in the platinum rings of the lamp. My flat spring is of

course the   .  ve.--ry    simplest way  of producing the forces
required. .              Yours truly,     WILLIAM THOMSON.

xx1 GATHERING UP THE THREADS 843

                                            THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

                                                                         9 Dec'. 1884.

DEAR EWING -- None of the patents are yet published,

I believe, but I shall enquire about them and have them

pushed on as soon as possible. I have dropped the
electromagnetic safety break, because after I had put up

20 or 30 in Peterhouse I found that the slamming of
doors, etc., upset them. They had worked perfectly in

my laboratory. I regret this the less, however, because

J. T. Bottomley and I have worked out an improved
safety fuse which is simpler and cheaper, and in ordinary

circumstances surer than the electromagnetic safety break.
. . .--Yours very truly,
                                                    WILLIAM THOMSON.

     Peterhouse held high celebration on Decem

ber 22, 1884, of the Six- hundredth Anniversary
of its Foundation. The evening banquet was

graced by Prince Edward of Wales, the Marquis of

Hartington, and many celebrated men, amongst

them the U.S. Ambassador Mr. J. Russell Lowell,
Mr. Matthew Arnold, and Sir William Thomson,
himself its most distinguished Fellow. The

eighth toast,1 proposed by Thomson, was that
of " Other Seats of Learning," to which Lowell

responded.

    The year was concluded with visits to Lord
Derby at Knowsley, to Lady Thomson's brother-
in-law, Mr (now Sir) Alexander Hargreaves Brown,

    1 The toast  list was long and          the banquet lasted  olafte".     Near the close,
Professor (now   Sir James) Dewar           proposed the toast            Pure and Applied

Science," calling on Sir Frederick Bramwell to reply. Rising slowly to his

full height, and with a twinkle in his eye, the eminent engineer thanked them,
and explained that at this late hour of the evening the only example of applied
science that occurred to him was the application of the lucifer-match to the

domestic  candle.    Seizing a  :p--encil,  Lowell  instantly   wrote on the back of his
menu the  following   epigram

                 Oh ! brief Sir Frederick, would that we could catch
                 His happy humour, and could find his match,

844  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

at Druid's Cross, near Liverpool, and to Mr. William

G. Crum, Knutsford.

                                                       Jan. I, 1885,

                                                     MERE OLD HALL, KNUTSFORD.

    DEAR HELMHOLTZ --I have not yet seen the Balti

more Lectures, but I believe they will come very soon.
One of the Johns Hopkins mathematicians, Hathaway,
who is also a shorthand writer, undertook to make a
report of the lectures and to bring it out in " papyro-
graph " ; and I had a telegram from him a few days ago
saying it was nearly ready. I have no doubt that Mr.
Hathaway's work will be well done, but I am afraid to
see my part of the result ! I hope to make something
better of it in the course of a year or so, and to bring it

out in a printed volume. Till this is done it may be

advisable not to let the labour of translation be under
taken. We enjoyed our visit to America very much
(notwithstanding a degree of heat which, we were told,
was "quite exceptional"; but the American climate seems

exceptionally hot except when it is exceptionally cold).
The Baltimore Lectures were a great pleasure to myself,
because I had twenty or thirty most agreeable and
interesting " coefficients," many of them from distant
parts of the States, who came to Baltimore with leave
of absence from their Colleges and Universities for the
three weeks of the lectures, and I felt myself stimulated

to an interest in the subject that I had never felt before,
and which forced me to learn something of it of which I
had till then been exceptionally ignorant.

    I think I have at last (since about midsummer) hit

upon a convenient and simple plan for electromagnetic
measuring instruments, in which the " constant " of each
instrument will be truly constant ; or rather as nearly so
as is the earth's mass and rotational period. I have been
working at the thing incessantly since our return from
America, and I hope very soon to have some instruments
made which will be convenient for ordinary use.

     We are here spending our holidays with my brother

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 845

 in-law W. G. Crum and his family, but return to Glasgow
 on Monday. My wife joins in kind regards to you and
 Mrs. von Helmholtz and the boys, and best wishes to you
 for the New Year, and I remain yours always truly,

                                                WILLIAM THOMSON.

    At Bangor, at the University College of North

Wales, Professor Andrew Gray, so long assistant to
Sir William Thomson, had, as Professor of Physics,
organized new Physical Laboratories, and besought
his former chief to come to the formal opening of
them. The ceremony took place on February 2,
 1885, with an Address1 by Sir William Thomson.
The new laboratories which he now came to open
had been built on the space formerly occupied by the

stables of the Penrhyn Arms Hotel. A reference

to p. 233, ante, will show what associations must have

been conjured up by his visit.

    He spoke of the laboratory of a scientific man
being his place of work, and of the history of labora
tories ; personal reminiscences of those at Glasgow,
and of the students who had composed his own
volunteer corps of laboratory workers. He laid
great emphasis on the functions of laboratories in
the true work of a university. " In university work

teaching and examining must go side by side, hand

in hand, day by day, week by week, together, if the
work is to be well done. The object of a university

is teaching, not testing . . . and examining should
only be part of its work, and that only so far as it
promotes teaching. The credit of the university
should depend on good teaching." Bangor College

                   1 Printed in Popular Lectures, vol. iii. pp. 473-501.

846     LIFE OF LORD KELVIN        CHAF.

was not yet a university ; yet he looked forward

hopefully to the time when it would be -- if not an
independent university of itself -- a constituent

college of the University of Wales.

     From Glasgow, on February 8, he wrote to Mrs.

King :--

    I am just now, and indeed have been from the

beginning of the session, hard at work on a new set of
measuring instruments for electric potentials and currents,
to meet modern practical and scientific requirements. I
had been for four or five years trying for something of
the kind, and getting something made and brought into
use to partially supply the want, but it is only since last

May that I have got on the right plan, and now I am

just on the point of getting several different instruments
to do, much more completely than ever, what is wanted.

. . . We were at a beautiful concert last night -- a popular

concert, crammed with working people enjoying Beethoven,
Schubert, Weber, Mendelssohn, to the utmost, on a pro
gramme chosen by universal suffrage of themselves.

Though Sir William was busier than ever over

measuring instruments, he found time to entertain

at his house the Lord Rector of that year, who

was no other indeed than his former colleague,

Edmund Law Lushington, Emeritus Professor of

Greek.

   Nature of May 14, 1885, contained a review by

Helmholtz of Vols. I. and II. of Sir William's

Mathematical and Physical Papers.  It concluded
thus :--

    Let us hope for an early continuation of this interesting col
lection. There are still nearly thirty years to be accounted for.
When we think of that, we cannot fail to be astonished at the

fruitfulness and unweariedness of his intellect.

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS                  847
    Then Sir William wrote :--

                            YACHT LALLA ROOKH, LARGS,

                                                     June 18, 1885.

DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I wanted before now to write

and thank you for the very appreciative account of my

Reprint of Collected Papers which you gave to Nature,

and which we read with great interest, but was prevented

by our unsettled life, between London, visits at Cambridge

(Prof. Stokes) and Lord Rayleigh's, and some other friends
in England. We came on board yesterday and slept on

board last night, but even yet have not attained to the

quiet and settled life of the Lalla Rookh which we have

been looking forward to, as I must be in Edinburgh and

Glasgow this week, and in London to give evidence before

a Committee of the House of Commons on the proposed

Manchester Ship Canal next week. Except for these

disturbances we should live under a triangle of forces,
pulling to the laboratory, Netherhall, and the Lalla Rookh,

and having their turns of preponderance with some regu

larity. I have a new depth-gauge to test on board, and

had some very promising trials at our anchorage here

yesterday evening. To-day I hope to find it working
well, when sailing with a good breeze in deeper water. I

am very busy in the laboratory with electric measuring

instruments. I am making standardizers on the prin

ciple of Faraday's law, which I worked out mathemati

cally 35 years ago, to the effect that a globe, or any not
...too elongated piece of soft iron, experiences a force in
the electromagnetic field.  I have recently noticed

theoretically, and verified experimentally, that the force

on the soft iron in these circumstances is exceedingly
                                              A short
little influenced by magnetic retentiveness.

bar, or a globe, experiences very nearly the same force,

and produces very nearly the same magnetic effect

externally to itself, as if its inductive susceptibility were

infinitely great. I find slight effects of residual magnet
ization if R has been very great, and I provide with the
instrument a little reversing key. A rapid succession of

848    LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                CHAP.

half a dozen or a dozen reversals of the current (changes

of sign of R) brings the force on the iron to a perfectly

definite condition, in which I find also (as theory indi

cated) the force experienced by the soft iron is very
rigorously proportional to the square of the strength of

the current by which R is produced. I believe that I can

thus have a secondary standard for the strength of a
^current accurate to
                      %. . . .
I have also an instrument on the same principle, but

with an inspectional scale from 80 to 1 70, and practical

scale of weights, for different grades, from 5 milligrammes
to 80 milligrs. : giving, for instance, I, 2, 4 for ratios of
the currents corresponding to the same mark on the scale.

. . . The movable iron is a short solid cylinder, weighing

about  grams, and attracted upwards by the electro
       is

           1^-

                                   is

                                 I
magnetic force. The standardizing point of this instru

ment   80 of its scale.                have had several of these

made, and they promise to be very useful for laboratory

and for practical purposes (for instance, to serve, with an
added external resistance of 2500 ohms, for an engine-
room voltmeter, to measure from 80 to 120 volts, or 170

with less accuracy, on an inspectional scale).
         am also making iron-clad magnetostatic galvan
I

ometers to serve from lO"9 of an ampere to 150 amps.,
and a hectoamperemeter (on the attraction of iron prin
ciple, but across, not along the lines of force) to serve

from 30 amps, to 1000 amps.               have made absolute
       (I !
             !)
                       a

                              is

                                is I
idiostatic electrometers for laboratory and practical pur

poses to serve for 400 volts to 20,OOO volts, which are
already working well. My aim a two-branched chain

to measure currents from to"9 of an amp. (i.e. mikro-
                                          %
milliampere to 1000 amps., and from 10000 vo^          a
(or as much less as you please) to 80,000 volts, all con
nected by proper standardizes and comparers, and

^susceptible hope) of an accuracy of      in every case,

when the requisite care given. All these are secondary

standards, or magnetostatic instruments adjusted by

standardizers themselves secondary standards. For         a

primary standard of current have made an absolute
                                       I

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 849

sine-galvanometer, which works well. I think I can rely

on the measurements we make of the horizontal com

ponent of the terrestrial force to -j^                  and am sure
                                                        °/Q,

                                                                I
                                                                    I

                                                                            I
can keep the error of the sine-galvanometer well within

this figure. For primary electrostatic standard am now

going on to make an attracted-disk electrometer to work

with about 10,000 or 20,000 volts difference of potential.
                     simple plan by well - insulated condensers
      have
I
          I

                  a
(arranged like the old Leyden phials " in cascade                                    by
                                              I

                                                                                  a

                                                                               ")
which              can multiply an hundredfold, from 100 volts

(measured by galvanometers and resistance coils, in
electromagnetic measure) to 10,000 volts, to be measured
by absolute electrometer. Thus expect to get satis

factorily accurate evaluation of the number of electrostatic

units in the electromagnetic unit, which may be more

accurate than the measurements made hitherto.

        am afraid have wearied you with this long letter.
if I                 I
     I
                        I
                                      ;

                                it
                                       I
                                                          I

                                                         if
      ought really to have waited till could give you
                                                             I it
      better told, in print but thought you would be in
                                                                            ?
      terested, and now am appalled to find how much have

      taxed your eyes. Is possible to persuade you to come
      to Scotland in summer, and to bring Mrs. von Helmholtz
      You know your " swimming home " here you will come,

      and Netherhall you know also. Tell your wife that she
      will not be required to be moment in the Lalla Rookh
                              a if a
      she does not like, and you care to come for sail
                                                             a

      with me or cruise to little distance the ladies will
                     if is a
come or stay on shore, as they please. The British

Association                   at Aberdeen on the loth of September.

tWo erewadouplda,pers.y--ou                   it,       not to be troubled
                               please, go to       but
                              Yours always    truly,

                                              WILLIAM THOMSON.

    In July he was cruising about the Solent. He6.
wrote from Cowes on July 23 to Lord Rayleigh,
inviting him for a cruise before he should sail north
on August

    Will you come on Saturday the ist and remain till

850  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN          CHAP.

Wednesday the 5th (on which day I must go up to

London to dine with Cyrus Field at the Star and Garter,
Richmond, in commemoration of several fifths of August
combined l to make the first successes of Atlantic tele

graphy). But we shall see two days or 2\ days of the

Cowes Regatta, before I must leave. We may ourselves
have a good sail on both the Monday and Tuesday, and
the preliminary Sunday will allow a settlement of Clark

cells and other electric subjects, to make way for hydro

dynamics. I write in the middle of disturbances -- flags

flying, guns at Spithead sounding from the distance, and
royalties flying past in steam launches, and visitors on

board, excuse incoherence.

    Sir William and Lady Thomson were the guests
of Lord Aberdeen at Haddo House on the occasion

of the British Association meeting at Aberdeen on

September 9. At this meeting Sir William took

part in a lively discussion on electrolysis, opened by
Professor (now Sir) Oliver Lodge. He also read a
paper on electric measuring instruments, and another

on the method of multiplying potentials, of which he

had written to Helmholtz earlier in the year. Lady
Thomson wrote to Darwin that it was a very

pleasant meeting, much superior to that at Montreal ;

and invited him to come to Netherhall, where

there was to be a party of electrical folk-- Captain
Creak, Oliver Lodge, George FitzGerald, R. T.
Glazebrook, Sir George Stokes, and later Lord and

Lady Rayleigh.    30 Sir William  wrote to Mrs.
    On September

King :--

     Our party is now all dispersed ; the last of them, her
brother John and his wife, having left us this morning.

                                   1 See pages 343, 360, and 364 supra.

xx1 GATHERING UP THE THREADS 851

We go up to Glasgow for two days' work to-morrow and
Friday, and we set out from here on Monday morning
for Malvern. I hope you are still enjoying your villegia-
tura, and that you all three will bring back a good

durable stock of health when you return home. I am

exceedingly busy with new electric measuring instru
ments (special ones, on which I have been hard at work),
and a new depth recorder for my sounding machine, which
after 9 years hitherto unavailing attempts now promises
success.

    In October, for a change before the winter session
should open, they went to Malvern, and then to

Cambridge.

    For some years James T. Bottomley had taken

over as Deputy- Professor all the less-advanced teach
ing, so that Sir William's labours as Professor were
much lightened. The programme for the winter of
1885-86 shows how large a proportion of the work
was now devolved upon him.

MATHEMATICAL COURSE OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY
                    SIR WILLIAM THOMSON

Every Wednesday at 12 noon.

      A special subject is chosen in each session and treated
            mathematically : such as --The Wave Theory of Light,
               Hydrodynamics, Theory of Magnetism, etc. etc. : for
               session 1885-86 the subject is Vortex Motion.

                    J. T. BOTTOMLEY

nTuesday and Thursday at  A.M.

Dynamics, so far as can be treated without the aid of the

Differential Calculus.

Monday and Friday at 12 noon.

Dynamics with the aid of the Differential and Integral

Calculus.

Examinations are conducted weekly and home Exercises given

from time to time.

852           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

    Sir William also gave experimental lectures
on Thursdays and Fridays, at 9 A.M., to the
whole large class ; and Mr. Bottomley gave two
others on Tuesdays and Wednesdays at the same

hour.

    He wrote in November to Lord Rayleigh :--

The fibre suspension for balances is doing splendidly.

I think it is going to answer well for ordinary weighings.

I am making a delicate balance, suspended on several

lines of single silk fibre, which will weigh safely up to

two grams, and will not only be very delicate, but exceed

ingly easily  atcoutse5ad0c. cIobrsdI.,intagomtthoealsonozesa.r,emsstatkoniqneugsartaeonnr-deounptcooeun--wdesni--goht

anything up
refusing to

and perhaps you may see it in all grocers' shops, or at all

events in all enlightened grocers' shops, by and bye. But
the thing I wanted the fibre suspension for has been a

complete success. I have got over all my difficulties with
the milliamperemeter. Two of them keep together within

fa per cent.

    " Capillary Attraction " was the title of a discourse
given by Sir William Thomson at the Royal
Institution on Friday, January 29, 1886. This

lecture, which is printed in Popular Lectures, vol. i.

pp. 1-55, began with a discussion of the gravitational

attraction between two minute portions of matter at
very small distances apart. At a distance of one one-

hundred-thousandth of an inch (or 250 micromilli-
metres) their mutual attraction would be insensible.
But at one-fifth of that distance (as estimated by

Quincke) it would begin to be sensible. All capillary

phenomena might be explained without assuming

any other law than that of gravitation. He had

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 853

shown ! in 1862 that, provided only we may assign a
sufficiently great density to the molecules themselves,
heterogeneousness of structure will suffice to account

for any force of cohesion, however great. By such
cohesive forces one could explain the presence of
surface tension, acting like a contractile film of
infinite thinness over the surface of a liquid, although
one must not fall into the paradoxical habit of
thinking of the surface film as other than an ideal
way of stating the resultant effect of mutual attrac
tion between the different portions of the fluid.
One could even calculate from the surface tension

the period of vibration of a dewdrop. A sphere of

water of radius i centimetre would have a period of
vibration of ^ second. He then referred to the
explanation given by his brother James, in 1855, of

the phenomenon, due to surface tension, known as
the " tears " of strong wine, and to the graphic solu
tion of a number of problems of the equilibrium
of the surfaces of pendent drops and other free

liquid surfaces, which problems are too difficult for
solution by the methods of the calculus. This
graphic solution had been carried out with great
perseverance and ability by Professor John Perry in
1874, when he was a member of the laboratory

corps. These drawings were now exhibited. A

fine experimental illustration was afforded by a
large-scale model of a pendent drop, enclosed not
in an ideal film, but in a real film of thin sheet

    1 Note on Gravity and Cohesion, Roy. Sac. Edin. Proc. vol. iv. p. 604,
April 21, 1862.

854                    LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                     CHAP.

india-rubber. Suspended from the roof was a stout

horizontal metal ring, about 60 centimetres in
diameter, covered on its lower face by a tightly-
stretched sheet of india-rubber. When water was

poured in, the flexible bottom bulged downward,
and, as more and more water was poured in, the

form changed and elongated, just as a pendent drop
might do. The growth of this " drop," its successive
changes of form, with their varying stabilities and
their vibrations when disturbed, furnished an exciting

episode in the lecture,1 which culminated when
finally the elastic film gave way and the drop burst

over the lecture table, splashing the nearer members
of the fashionably attired audience.

    One result of this lecture was a communication to
the Edinburgh Royal Society, on March i, of a paper
on the magnitude of the mutual attraction between
two pieces of matter at a distance of less than ten
micromillimetres. In April he gave another paper
on a new form of portable spring balance for the
measurement of terrestrial gravity.

1 This experiment of the dewdrop was a favourite one in Sir William's

regular university course from early times, when his assistant Tatlock used to

mount a ladder to pour water into it. Sir William (as Mr. Bamber, a former
student, has narrated in Engineering) had previously drawn upon the piece of
sheet-rubber certain lines and curved figures which, as the drop swelled up,

changed their forms and proportions. Most enthusiastically he would point

out these changes and write down equations of curvature on the board ; he

himself dodging about, now standing below the drop, now returning to his

place behind the table. Then he would go back to the drop, and poking it

with the pointer would say : "The trembling of the dewdrop ! gentlemen."

wMaeya.ntim"e     the  drop itself was  increasing in size and thinness in an  ominous
               More    water, Tatlock.     Now, gentlemen, you see how this    line has

altered. Go on, Tatlock, more water." The class awaited the denouement
breathlessly. At last it came, the "drop" having expanded from about

9 inches in diameter to nearly 2 feet. Fortunately the learned Professor was

on the right side of the table, with his head not as much under the "drop"
               There was no more lecturing that day after the "drop" burst.
as usual.

xx1 GATHERING UP THE THREADS 855

On February 21 Sir William wrote to Darwin :--

     I am off to London to-night to elect a professor of
physics for Sydney, and return to-morrow night. The

new electric measuring instruments are doing well, but

not yet ready to give out. It has been a truly tremendous
piece of work for me these four years.

    The following letter to Mr. (now Sir William)
Preece tells of the electric lighting :--

                                                                        1kth March '86.

DEAR PREECE-- In answer to yours of yesterday I

began electric lighting in my house in June 1881. By
the end of that year I had 1 06 lights in my house, and

soon afterwards I had 52 lights in my class-room, 12 in

my Laboratory, and 10 were fitted up in the Senate Room

of the University. My lamps are Swan, 8 5 volt, 1 6 candles.
     I made a Faure battery for myself of 120 cells arranged

in three parallels, and used it incessantly for about 18

months, till I found it worked to death.

Last November I got an improved Faure-Sellon-

Volckmar battery from the Electric Power Storage Co.

By the accompanying copy of a letter I have just written

to Mr. Drake, you will see how splendidly satisfactory

this has been. I scarcely ever have the engine going,

except during the day to charge the battery. Without

the engine I get from the battery alone ample current for
40 lights : when I want more than 40 lights I use engine
and battery together in the usual manner, and then I have
ample current for from 70 to So lights. -- Yours very

truly,                                    W. THOMSON.

    The next letter, to the Bursar of Peterhouse,
brings new aspects into view :--

                                                                             22nd March '86.

    DEAR DODDS-- Thanks for cheque. I enclose receipt.

The dividend is lamentably small ; but what a lesson

the state of landed property in our region ought to
be to Gladstone and other would-be remedialists of the

856              LIFE OF LORD KELVIN              CHAP.

agricultural distress in Ireland. I wonder it has never

occurred to the great mind of Gladstone himself that

some moderate encouragement and help towards business
habits and arrangements between Landlords and Tenants,

coupled with defence of honest dealing on each side by
all the power of the empire, is the only remedy possible,
and all the remedy that is needed, to make the best of

bad times in Ireland as everywhere else.

     Thanks for your information about the electric light.

I hope it is doing well, and that it will be fairly satis

factory also in respect to economy. Have the Under
graduates got any of the lowering lamps yet ? I think

with a lamp that can be readily lowered down to the
table every one will feel the single light in his room

always sufficient and quite pleasant and agreeable for

reading.   kind  regards  to all  my friends  at  Peterhouse, -- I
     With

remain, yours truly,              WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Sir William Thomson viewed with fierce hostility
the Home Rule Bill and the Irish Land Bill which

Mr. Gladstone had introduced that session into Parlia
ment. As an Ulsterman he strongly disapproved
of both schemes, the danger of which to Ireland and

to the Empire had been at the very outset urged
upon him by his brother James. Hitherto in such
part as he had taken in politics he had been ranked
as a moderate Liberal. But now he flung himself
with intense eagerness into the Unionist cause,
and became a leader amongst the Liberal Unionists
of Scotland.

    He was still trying to pick up the threads of his
Baltimore Lectures, as will be seen by his reply
to two of the most distinguished of his American

colleagues.

xxt GATHERING UP THE THREADS 857

                                           CLEVELAND, OHIO, March 22, 1886.

    DEAR SIR WILLIAM--You will no doubt be inter

ested to know that our work on the effect of the
motion of the medium on the velocity of light has
been brought to a successful termination. The result
fully confirms the work of Fizeau. The factor by which
the velocity of the medium must be multiplied to give the
acceleration of the light was found to be 0-434 in the
case of water, with a possible error of O-O2 or 0-03. This

agrees almost exactly with Fresnel's Formula,   --

                                               ^

The experiment was also tried with air with a negative

result.

The precautions taken appear to leave little room for

any serious constant error, for the result was the same

with different lengths of tubes, different velocities of liquid,

and different    methods  a  offewobsweerevkast.io--n.VeryWerespheocptefullyto,
publish details   within

your obedient servants,      ALBERT A. MICHELSON.

                             EDWD. W. MORLEY.

                                                           ird April 1886.

    DEAR PROFS. MICHELSON AND MORLEY --Thanks
for your letter of 22nd ult. I am exceedingly interested

in what you tell me, and am more eager to see in print

your description of your experiments. The result is

clearly of the greatest importance in respect to the

dynamics of the luminiferous ether and of light.
    I am working all I can (but with quite an almost

desperate amount of interruption) to have my Baltimore
Lectures brought out in print. I hope before the volume

is completed to have results from you that can be in

corporated as an appendiX.

    My time is very much engaged with electric measuring

instruments, which I have been working incessantly at for

the last four years. I have now nearly come to a
conclusion in respect to forms of instruments, but I have

still a great amount to do. However, I do see daylight

clearly now through it.                        T

   VOL. II

858   LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                 CHAP.

Lady Thomson joins with me in kind regards-- and I

remain, yours very truly,          WILLIAM THOMSON.

                                                  THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,
                                                       27 th April '86.

    DEAR DARWIN -- I scarcely think we shall attend the
B.A. this year. I think I must take a holiday when I

get these electric measuring instruments, which I have

been so hard at work upon for 5 years, off my hands.
    I think colour vision would be an excellent subject for

discussion at the B.A. I think the Electromagnetic and

the Elastic-solid theories of light will be a very good

subject. There would be a great deal of rubbish talked
on that or on any conceivable subject of discussion ; but I

think that there is more hope of some good metal flowing

out from that than from       any  other  crucible-full that
                                          W. THOMSON.
occurs. . . . --Yours truly,

P.S. -- I hope Cambridge is going to do its best to

stop the two Bills on second reading. Was such madly

mischievous legislation ever proposed in the History of

England before ?

    In May came visits to Lady Siemens at Tun-
bridge Wells, and to Lord Rayleigh at Terling
Place. Thomson wrote to von Helmholtz :--

DEAR  HELMHOLTZ -- .          SHERWOOD, TUNBRIDGE WELLS,
                                            May 23/86.

                              . . I am still very much en

grossed with electric measuring instruments. I am afraid
I cannot now say that I am nearer than, but I think I can
safely say that I am now as near as I thought I was, to
satisfactory results when I wrote to you a year ago !

This is not much to say, but I do seem happily to see

daylight through an affair for which I have been struggling
                                    If you see Dr. Werner
without intermission for 5 years.  I have never sent him
Siemens, will you tell him that

the notice I promised of the new instruments which I

showed him in Paris two years ago, because I found them

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 859

unsatisfactory, and that I have been working ever since to

get something better? I little thought that an electro

meter would be the first of the set to be got into practical
working shape : but so it is. I enclose a notice of it

which I have only received from the printers a few days

ago, and I shall write to White to send it (the notice) to
Dr. Siemens immediately. My other instruments are

electromagnetic. The standardizing current meter of

which I wrote to you (founded on the tendency of a piece
of soft iron to move from places of weaker to places of

stronger force) has done very well, and has proved very

satisfactory in my laboratory and on our house circuit, but
I am
all, I  keeping   istombaectkh, inbgecbauestteerf--or   most purposes, if    not for
        have got                                                              meter
                                                       an intrinsic current

founded on the tendency of an oblate ellipsoid of revolution

(about 8 mm. equatoreal and 5 mm. axial diameter) to
place the plane of its equator along the lines of force.

The little oblate is supported on a stretched platinoid

wire, balanced relatively to gravity, so that it will work

as well at sea as on land. It has given me very good

results, within · I (one-tenth) per cent of absolute accuracy,
and will serve very conveniently for directly standard
izing currents of from · i of an ampere to 20 or 30

amperes.

    All these things have left me very little time for other
work, but I begin now to feel a little freer, and I hope

soon to get on with the Baltimore Lectures (preparing

for the press, etc. etc.), which have been too long deferred.

We are staying here for a few days with Lady Siemens.
I have told her the news of the little grandson, which

interests her much. She sends her kindest greetings, and
" particularly to the little grandson." Lady Thomson

joins in the same, and particularly to yourself and your

wife. We return to Scotland next week for laboratory,

Lalla Rookh, and Netherhall. -- Yours always,
                                                WILLIAM THOMSON.

   A postcard to Darwin deals with matters they

had discussed two days before at Cambridge.

860  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                            CHAP.

Chemical energy is infinitely too meagre in pro

portion to gravitational energy, in respect to matter

falling into the Sun, to be almost worth thinking of.

Dissociational ideas are wildly nugatory in respect to such

considerations. Hot     primitive   nebula   is a wildly im
                        so now it  seems to  me at all events,
probable hypothesis --
and it can help us nothing. Langley, I suppose trust-

worthily, finds a somewhat greater (? 7 to 6) radiation of
the Sun than Pouillet, whose result I took.

                             W. T. Glasgow, June 6/86.

    The rejection of the Home Rule Bill was followed
by a general election, and Sir William Thomson
threw himself into the thick of the fray, travelling
about the West of Scotland, speaking and presiding
at meetings for several weeks. He combined with
this the recreation of sailing, and visited several

places to take part in political gatherings.

    He wrote to Tait, 16th June 1886 :--

     I am too busy, not only with the election, but with
measuring instruments and with my Baltimore Lectures, to
be able at present to give a thought to the Boltzmann
" sibboleth," or anything else about the kinetic theory of

gases.

    From Roshven he sent to Lord Rayleigh, on July

1 8, a number of equations about the propagation of
harmonic waves, one of them full of complicated

roots. He wrote :--

The following, due to a quartette of circumstances, (l)
release from election work, (2) bondage to Baltimore
...Lectures, (3) incessant surroundings of deep-sea waves,
and (4) a wet Sunday, will, I think, interest you.        It

is a surprisingly curious formula, and what Hopkins used

to call very prickly. . . .

xx1 GATHERING UP THE THREADS 861

     The very end of my electioneering was at Oban on
Tuesday night, where and when Craig Sellar and I held a

meeting of Liberal Unionists in support of Col. Malcolm

(C), candidate for Argyllshire. There was much joy on
board the Lalla Rookh, happily storm-stayed at Tobermory,
on Friday night, to hear " Majority 613 Malcolm."
What is to be done to keep Mr. Gladstone from mischief
after all ? We hear that it is supposed " his game is to

discredit the government and make it appear in the eyes

...of the country that he is indispensable, and then come
back on his own terms."  I don't for a moment

believe he will succeed, but there is too much reason to

believe that is his game, and more than enough to show

that Unionist organization must be kept up vigorously

and Unionists must act well together in Parliament ;

keeping AS FAR AS POSSIBLE all subjects on which, as

conservatives and liberals and radicals, they may differ

among themselves, until a time comes when they can be

honourably fought out and fairly settled, which certainly

they cannot be until the two imps of mischief, Parnell

and Gladstone, are finally deprived of all power for evil.

What a blessing it would be if we could have Lord

Salisbury, Lord Hartington, Chamberlain  and Jesse
Collings all in one government. . . .

    Three days later, being storm-stayed at Roshven,
he sent Lord Rayleigh some new proofs of the
proposition that the wave-velocity is double of the

group-velocity, and added :--

    We are delighted to see one Nationalist beaten by a
Unionist in Ireland. So if dear old Scotland behaves
not like a fool once more, in Orkney and Shetland, we
shall have 117! What shall we (they, I mean, Lord
Salisbury, Hartington, Bright, Trevelyan, Chamberlain and
Co.) do with it ? Wisely, I hope.

    Again, after three days, he sent a postcard with

more about groups of waves, and this note :--

862  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

     We leave for Glasgow to-day by rail for six days'
Laboratory and White's, and Glasgow for Portsmouth
Saturday night. Will you join us at Cowes next week to
look for hydrodynamic problems and illustrations at the
R.Y.C. Regatta ?

     September brought the British Association meet
ing at Birmingham. Here Sir William read four
papers bearing on wave-problems (see p. 748), and
one on an instrument to measure the differences of

gravity at different places.
    The yachting ended early this autumn, the last

cruise being on September 30. He was very busy
with calculations on deep-sea waves and canal waves,

required to complete certain points promised in the
Baltimore Lectures. Politics also made demands on

his time, and he went over to Belfast with his brother
James to take part in Mr. Chamberlain's Anti-Home

Rule meeting there on October n, 1886. The last

half of October was spent at Great Malvern, and in
a brief visit to George Darwin at Cambridge.

     Endless patience on minute detail characterized
Sir William Thomson's prolonged efforts to bring to

perfection the standard electrical instruments to

which he had set his hand nearly five years before.

The following letter to Lord Rayleigh enables one
to understand a little the nature of such protracted
toils :--

                                                  THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

                                                                                               '86.

    DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH -- Many thanks for your
volume of Electric Measurements which I was delighted

to find on our return here three days ago.

xx« GATHERING UP THE THREADS 863

    I have at last realized my elastically suspended balance.
I have one now with a strong enough elastic suspension to

bear 80 kilogrammes, and with                                          or kilogrammes
                      it,                                              53
whole weight hung on     it                                                 a
                               is
                                                                                   4
                                                  2^-
                                                    amply sensitive to three

milligrammes. The suspension consists of 400 parallel
copper wires, each about o-i mm. diam. and                                             milli

metres free in the vertical bearing part. For convenient

weighing balance to accurately weigh to kilogrammes,
                                                    I
I  would probably use 100 bearing wires, but of platinoid
                                                        I
instead of copper, possibly with to 10 cms. lengths in    it 5
                                                                4

                                                                    4
the vertical bearing parts, and would hang the weight
pans from one end of the balance also by fine wires instead

of knife edges. From what have seen am perfectly
                                                                       I
sure could easily weigh with                                         kilogrammes to the
   I                                                                      a

          4

                 I
nearest     milligrammes, and very likely to the nearest

milligramme.        mean now to make such balance for

ordinary use.

   What now have and have tried for the first time
         I

to-day up to 150 amperes                            a hecto-amperemeter. The
                                                    is
                                                        it

                                                                :

                                                                         is

                                                                                                                                 3.
current enters the movable coil by 200 of the bearing wires
                    by the other 200. It intended for 400
and leaves    I it

amperes, but am pretty sure will be quite available up

to 500 or     600   amperes. Here                     are            results  of  the                                              first
rough trials  made    this afternoon
                                                    --

                                                    New Recto-Amperemeter.

                    Current in Amperes.             Observed.          Calculated from No.

         (1) 50                                     167-4                     I67-33
         (2) 100                                    669-2                     669-33
         (3) 150
                                                    1506-0             1506-0

   The unit         mgrms. Thus the weight for 100
a
                 is
                           is
                                 6

                                                 a
amperes 4-015 grammes.
     The currents were fixed at the 50 and 100 amperes by

   test comparison with hecto-amperemeter of the same

kind and same gauge for which the coefficient had been
determined by electrolysis of copper. The previous one

had been compared with deka-amperemeter for currents
        \i
of from
             2\

                       i

                                                a
                                                                a
               to oo amperes, and had shown agreement

within      per cent, which, for                                   first attempt on two

864         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                   CHAP.

instruments of such very different gauges, and through so

considerable a range of current, was fairly satisfactory. It,

and what I know otherwise, settles that the new hecto-

amperemeter is available for currents of from 12 to 600

amperes. The instrument is going to be perfectly

portable :  no amount of  knocking about it can    have in
travelling  can damage    the bearing ligaments.
                                                  -- Yours

truly,                         WILLIAM THOMSON.

    On November 9 he sends to Lord Rayleigh a

mathematical discovery.

     The force required to tow a boat uniformly, whether

in a canal or in an open expanse of water (supposed

inviscid), is zero when the velocity exceeds v^D- This
                  years after
anticipates (49^   a canal.    dIatheop!)eScinottPaRrutssIeIIl.l'sodf isacosevteroyf
as to towage in

articles on Stationary Waves, which I am sending to the

Phil. Mag., to give a table of the forces required for

towage, at different speeds, up to v^D, °f a boat whose

length is short in comparison with the wave-length

corresponding to its speed, and comparable with, or

much greater than, the breadth of the canal.

    About the end of 1 886 there arose a rather angry
public dispute about priority in connexion with the
invention of the seismometers used for making auto

matic records of earthquakes. To one of the dis
putants, who had brought the matter to Sir William
Thomson's notice, he wrote :--

     I am very sorry if any one concerned has said any

thing that could be personally disagreeable to any other ;

and I cannot but think that all these questions of fact,

so far as the public can take any interest whatever in
them, could and should be discussed without coming within

a hundred miles of anything acrimonious. If any

one person has said anything acrimonious I will advise

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 865

himself and every other person concerned to determinedly
avoid doing the same again.

    On January 3, 1887, Sir William Thomson wrote
from Druid's Cross, Wavertree, to Lord Rayleigh,
telling him that he was going to give a Friday even
ing discourse at the Royal Institution on January
21, on the origin of the Sun's Heat. The letter
tells of more work on the balances and their sus
pensions, and of more articles on deep-sea waves.
It ends with a note of politics :--

     And how do you feel about Randolph ? Not dis
tressed, I hope. I hope Mr. Goschen's acceptance will
do good. Surely Ireland is already feeling a benefit from
something like stability of government, with promise of
continuity.

    The Royal Institution discourse on the Origin
and Age of the Sun's Heat gave an epitome of views

which have been stated in Chapter XIII. It appeared

in substance in Good Words, 1887. It was an
attempt to explain the enormous radiation of the
sun -- equivalent to 78,000 horse-power for every
square metre of his surface--on Helmholtz's theory

that the energy to maintain this output is furnished

by a gravitational contraction of his mass. The
lecture is a striking example of Lord Kelvin's method
of illustrating recondite problems, such as those of
the dynamics of a nebula, by imaginary models in
which billiard balls or marbles are supposed to be
flying about a room and striking against its walls
or floor. He referred to the development of the
mathematical theory of the gaseous nebula by

866  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Mr. Homer Lane, and indulged in the customary
diatribe against the "awful and unnecessary toil and
waste of brain-power " involved in the use of the

British system of inches, feet, and yards. At the

close he pictured most graphically the primitive
formation of a gaseous nebula by the falling together
of " twenty-nine million cold solid globes, each of
about the same mass as the moon," and then

sketched the possible subsequent history of such a

nebula as it settled down into a rotating system.

     This is just the beginning postulated by Laplace for
his nebular theory of the evolution of the solar system,
which, founded on the natural history of the elder Her-
schel, and completed in details by the profound dynamical
judgment and imaginative genius of Laplace, seems con
verted by thermodynamics into a necessary truth. . . .
Thus there may in reality be nothing more of mystery in
the automatic progress of the solar system from cold
matter diffused through space, to its present manifest
order and beauty, lighted and warmed by its brilliant sun,
than there is in the winding up of a clock and letting it

go till it stops. I need scarcely say that the beginning

and the maintenance of life on the earth is absolutely and
infinitely beyond the range of all sound speculation in
dynamical science. The only contribution of dynamics
to theoretical biology is absolute negation of automatic
commencement or automatic maintenance of life.

    In the reprint of this discourse in Vol. I. of the
Popular Lectures, he added, at the word " clock "

in the antepenultimate sentence, the following foot

note :--

     Even in this, and all the properties of matter which it
involves, there is enough, and more than enough, of
mystery to our limited understanding. A watch spring

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 867

is much fitrtfier beyond our understanding than is a gaseous

nebula.

Amongst the papers read this season was a com

munication to the Glasgow Philosophical Society on
a double chain of electrical measuring instruments
to measure currents from the millionth of a milli-

ampere to a thousand amperes, and to measure

potentials up to forty thousand volts. To produce

such a series of instruments demonstrates an extra

ordinary devotion to the attainment of scientific

precision.
    On August 2nd the Institution of Mechanical

Engineers held a Conference in Edinburgh, and
here Sir William gave the lecture on Ship-Waves

noticed elsewhere (see p. 748).       characteristic  in

    The following letter is entirely
matter and manner :--

                   Aug. 6/87,
NETHERHALL, LARGS, AYRSHIRE.

    DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH -- I have had a very bad

time since your last letter came, or I should not have let

so long time pass without writing in return. The worst

on the whole has been, wave-making far in the rear of an
infinite fleet of equal and similar ships moving " in line
abreast." This has tortured me chronically since last

December and acutely for about three weeks till two

days ago. But I have been afflicted by a complication

of ailments, among which turbulent motion of water

between two planes has given me much suffering.       He

    I asked Stokes three questions yesterday.

answered each unhesitatingly.

     ( I ) Given an inviscid fluid moving in a pipe with the

same laminar (steady) motion as it would have if it were

viscous and were moving steadily under the influence of

868            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                CHAP.

gravity (or a distant piston pressing it through the pipe).
Do you think the motion of the inviscid fluid would be

stable?                                           Answ. No.

     (2) Do you think a needle balanced on its point
resting on the bottom of a basin of very thick treacle

would be stable ?                                 Answ. No.

     (3) Do you think viscosity of the fluid could give
stability to the motion specified in Quest i ?

                                                                Answ. Yes.

This seems to prove my case. We are tremendously

interested in your coloured photog' of spectrum and your

theory of the affair.

     My wife joins in kind regards to you and Lady

Rayleigh. I looked for you, both in the Jumna and
Serapis, at the Review but could not see you. I have

no message     --to   give  from    Stokes    as  he tells me he has
been writing.        Yours  truly,                   W. THOMSON.

     P. S. -- Stokes refuses to bet that a mass of water

falling into water will develop finite slip. Yes. Vertically,

he says no.1 " If falling with horizontal component, motion

requires further consideration." But he won't take 3 to I

in half-crowns.

    August 3 ist brought round the meeting of the
British Association at Manchester, and here Sir
William had four papers to read. Two of these

were on his electric balances, one was on the

turbulent motion of water flowing between two
planes, and one on the vortex theory of the
luminiferous ether. This was a development of

ideas broached in the Baltimore Lectures, and bore
a second title, phrased in the purest Kelvinese, " On
the Propagation of Laminar Motion through a
Turbulently Moving Inviscid Liquid."

    A long letter on stability of wave motion, to

     1 He does not admit this unqualifiedly.      He says probably DO.

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 869

Lord Rayleigh, on September 26, winds                                       up with a
reference to the acceptance of the Irish                                    Secretary
ship by Mr. Arthur J. Balfour.

     I hope the Secretary is being well refreshed by
Scotland. Very soon (a week or two more or less) I
trust there will be an uneventfulness in Irish History that
will sadly baffle the most ingenious and venomous of

Gladstonites, and that may cause their great leader to

endeavour not to remember Mitchelstown.

On July 27, 1887, the Jubilee of the Electric
Telegraph --that
                  of the first British line, from
                  is,
                                                                             a
Euston to Camden Town -- was celebrated by

dinner in London presided over by the Postmaster-

General, and at which Sir Charles Bright, Sir

William Thomson, Mr. Jacob Brett, Mr. John
Fender, Sir James Anderson, and others of the old

cable and telegraph services were present. Respond

ing for the toast of telegraphic science, Sir William

Thomson referred to his comrades and associates in

the pioneering work of 1857 to 1866, most of whom
had passed away. He eulogized the names of

Edward and Charles Bright, Whitehouse, Werner

and William Siemens, Canning, Clifford, Varley,

Jenkin, Willoughby Smith, the navigators Moriarty

and James Anderson, and the financiers Cyrus Field

and John Fender, whose steadfast perseverance had
led to success. After pointing out the great im

provements of recent date in land telegraphy he
concluded with the words --
I

                                  is

                                                                         :
        must say there some little political importance in
the fact that Dublin can now communicate its requests,

870 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

its complaints, and its gratitudes to London at the rate

of 500 words per minute. It seems to me an ample

demonstration of the utter scientific absurdity of any

sentimental need for a separate Parliament in Ireland.

I should have failed in my duty in speaking for science
if I had omitted to point out this, which seems to me a
great contribution of science to the political welfare of the

world.

Much time was spent this season by Sir William

Thomson at Netherhall, which in previous years

had been somewhat neglected in the autumn in

favour of the Lalla Rookh. An extract from the

diary of his niece, Miss Agnes G. King, gives a
picture of the family doings :--

July 2ist, 1887. --Uncle William is going off to-day
...to Portsmouth to be present at the grand review of the
fleet in honour of the Jubilee.        I have been out all

morning since breakfast watching the two brothers lopping

branches from the great tree near the front of the house

where the garden chair is placed.

    Mrs. King  wrote    to her daughters                 from
Glasgow :--

   Nov. 6, 1887. --When I arrived here yesterday Uncle

William and Aunt Fanny met me at the door, Uncle

William armed with a vessel of soap and glycerine pre

pared for blowing soap-bubbles, on a tray with a number of

mathematical figures made of wire. These he dips into the

soap mixture and a film forms or adheres to the wires very
beautifully and perfectly regularly. With some scientific

end in view he is studying these films. I was at once

taken into the study to see them, and while Uncle William

was showing them to me and giving me such explanations
as I could take in, he
                        was teaching   Dr.  Redtail to   whistle
" Merrily danced the    quaker's wife       Dr. Redtail    being
                                       "--

in the dining-room, and the teacher and pupil carrying on

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 871

the lesson at the top of their voices. The whole evening

was occupied with the soap mixture, the wire figures, and

the tobacco pipe, while Aunt Fanny read aloud Mr.

Balfour's speech.

On Friday afternoon five big stones were thrown

through the study window and four panes of plate glass
smashed as well as the fern case. It turned out to be

the deed of a maniac who gave as a reason for the

mischief he had done that Sir William was a villain who

had rained electricity on his head. He has been sent to

an asylum.     1887. -- Yesterday  Uncle William was at
     Nov. 13,

Dundee on business. When Aunt Fanny and I sat

down to table, and Dr. Redtail perceived Uncle William's
place vacant, he immediately shouted out, " Where is Sir
William " ?
     Nov. 15,  1887. --The excitement  about  the  election

became very wild, procession after procession of reds (for
Lord Rosebery) and blues (for Lord Lytton) headed by a
couple of pipers in kilts marched round the courts, and, as

they passed the house, halted to hurrah for Sir William.

    The next letter is an echo of an unsolved diffi

culty met with in the Baltimore Lectures (p. 819).

                                                                                NETHERHALL,
                                                                                  Nov. 20/87.

    DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH -- I am afraid I am a month

already your debtor for your last letter. I had a bad
time (at the beginning of which I hoped I might have
seen you in London) after receiving it and tried hard to
make out an unexceptionable proof of stability, but with
out success. I quite see the force of your objection, and
admire the mathematical theory of various wonderful

Maskelyne and Cooke performances which it suggests. It

certainly vitiates my seeming proof of stability ; but
still I think it might be explained away and my proof
completed. This kind of seeming test for stability does
not detect (as you show it does not) the instability of a

872  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

system disturbed from a position of static equilibrium.

But it does detect instability (as I maintain and I think

you will admit) in the parabolic laminar motion of an
inviscid fluid, and it proves that viscosity annuls this
kind of instability, but I cannot maintain that it proves

stability. There can be no peace or happiness in this
position of affairs, so you may think of me as very
miserable ; but I have become involved in another affair

(see Phil. Mag. Dec., or enclosed scrap) which George
Darwin characterizes as utterly frothy ; and having
launched it the waves in crystals have come on with
very interesting, almost happy result. I find that if a
homogeneous, isotropic, elastic solid (suppose for the

moment it be incompressible) be drawn out with

different forces in different directions ; so that with
reference to Qx, O.y, Os fixed relatively to the solid, and

remaining at right angles to one another, the co-ordinates
xyz of a point in the solid when unstrained, become
tax, fty, fZ when strained (a/3y = 8). . . . The velocities
are the same for the same directions of vib"-, and we have,

as shown by Green, Fresnel's wave-surface. But the

condition (1) is absolutely natural and simple; being
essentially true for infinitesimal values of a-- I, /8-- 1,
7 -- 1, and certainly true approximately, very approximately,

perhaps approximately enough to fit our knowledge if not

also your result for such values as would correspond
to Iceland Spar (? is it the most doubly refractive of all
crystals) : and certainly very approximately (not so far

as I can yet see rigorously, rather probably not) for
foam pulled unequally in different directions. This is a

great contrast to " Green's Second theory," and Stokes's
report on it. Stokes felt the assumption needed to bring
out Fresnel's wave-surface so strained that the whole

thing was unacceptable. It involved an independent
aeolotropy of the solid, which it modified into fitness for

Fresnel, by a precise adaptation seemingly unconnected.

I always felt Green's dynamical preliminary investiga

tion unintelligible (indigestible as I see I called it at

Baltimore), and it is really quite wrong in its seeming

xx. GATHERING UP THE THREADS 873

result, which would give laminar wave propagation in a

fluid by EQUAL negative (although not said to be negative)
in all directions. Still one cannot but feel that Green

had really divined the secret, and wanted only to write it
out better (by aid of T and T') ! to make it perfect.
    What I have       made out just now (since                             coming
yesterday -- this is  the best place for produce I                         always  here
                                                                                   find)
iIs,
        think, really interesting and important particularly
                                                            it
as showing all we want, and no possibility of anything                  :

else, produced by unequal pull in different directions

on an isotropic solid (Force will do                        all) instead of
having 18 moduluses to whittle down to two. Nothing

can yet see, however, diminishes the difficulty of the
I
     Ipolarization by reflexion.

      Have you been getting good results in weighing,

etc. etc.  ?

        hope you and Lady Rayleigh have been well, and have

still a good report to give from Ireland. Mr. Gladstone

seems rather frightened that he has gone too far in urging

maltreatment of the police, and think we may fairly
                                                  8,
hreogpaerdst.h--at Ytohuerstidaelwahyass   turned.        My wife joins in kind
                                          truly,         I         W. THOMSON.

      A communication to the Royal Society of

Edinburgh on December on Cauchy's and Green's

doctrine of extraneous forces, was the outcome of

the ideas revealed in the above letter.

About this time the possible arrangements of

molecules in crystalline and other solids began to

claim Sir William Thomson's attention, and his

"green books" for three or four years abound in

pages of notes and calculations on the packing of

molecules in different arrangements, and in the

partitioning of space by assemblages of primitive
particles of different shapes grouped so as to make

homogeneous solids.                       Many physicists had tried

   VOL. II                                                                 U

874  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

their hands at different kinds of grouping. Piles of
cannon-balls, groups of cubes, assemblages of six-
sided cells like a honeycomb, and many others had
been suggested as models of molecular grouping ; and
many such are to be found sketched in the note
books with calculations about the elastic and other

properties of such structures, including piles of
equal bubbles assembled as foam. One form to
which Sir William gave great attention was that

known as the tetrakaidekahedron --the solid with
fourteen faces --which may be looked upon as a

transition form between the cube and the octahedron,

and which he came to regard as a fundamental form
as constituent of a homogeneous grouping. It will
be seen later how, by models of various groupings
of molecules, he sought to elucidate the problem of
the ultimate structure of matter.

    The collection of his scattered mathematical and

physical papers and their revision for reprinting
proved a lengthy process. Vol. I. had been finished

in July 1882, and Vol. II. in November 1884; but

Vol. III. still dragged on. In February 1888, Sir

William was reported to be deep in a last new article
to finish the volume. This work he interrupted,
however, to give to the Geological Society of
Glasgow a lecture, on February 16, on Polar Ice-
Caps and their influence in changing Sea- Levels.
The main point in this paper was the influence of
the ice-cap of the Antarctic continent on the sea-
level and climate of the globe. Croll had estimated
the thickness of the Antarctic ice as 1 2\ miles. From

XXI GATHERING UP THE THREADS 875

experiments on the plasticity of ice, and the
estimated area of the Antarctic continent, Sir William

         a

                                                               If,
reckoned it to be three miles thick.                                owing to

slow astronomical changes, the average annual snow

fall at the Antarctic were to be increased, the result

after few hundreds of years would be, to increase

the cap, lower the level of the sea all over the globe,
diminish oceanic circulation, and tend also to cool

the Arctic ocean, increasing the amount of glaciation

in the northern hemisphere simultaneously. The

ocean the great carrier of heat the most potent
         is                         a
influence for altering the climate in any part of the;
             :
world.

The following extract from letter to a corre

spondent gives contemporary view on the question
                    a
of electric lighting, then beginning to be widely9 it

adopted --                      is

... As to the Electric Light                               . 1888.

                                    quite expect that
                                    ;                               it
                                                                         is it
                                     I

                                              it
will altogether supersede gas lighting in cities, although
         Ifimpossible to say how soon.
it                                                were at present
     is

supplied to houses at twice the price of gas, the light bill

would be less in most private houses than at present,

because the electric light can be extinguished in an instant

in any place where                  not wanted, and relighted in an

instant, with the greatest possible ease. The storage of

electricity     is  too costly for very general use, but

quite unnecessary in any very large-scale electric lighting.

    On February he wrote Lord Rayleigh that he
was trying hard to find "a convenient and useful

hydrokinetic analogue for electromagnetic induc

tion," which was wanted to complete Vol. III. of

the Collected Papers, the last sheet of which was

876      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                 CHAP.

waiting for it half finished.  He wrote again on

March 2 :--

     I am in great agony to get out Vol. III. of my

Papers. It has hung fire 5 or 6 weeks, with the last

sfIohreaemtelehacaftrlrafoimdpraiygnonteuedticwainlldindtwhuacinittikionngit----fo(ranoatvheeyrvdyernotkriuninmectpliucedriynagnaalfosfgoayfirt

iron, but still somewhat useful). I hope to get it done
in a few days, but I have been much disturbed with

the delay and difficulty of getting time to fix up the
         Lady Thomson bids me say " we hope that
affair.

Mr. Balfour is keeping well, because we think the whole
nation depends on it " ; and I say so most decidedly. We

had great excitement and joy over Deptford.

    In April he wrote : " I am still in the agony of

getting my Vol. III. finished."

    On May 3 he lectured on Waves to the Cork
Literary and Philosophical Society.

The diary of Miss Agnes G. King tells of doings

at Netherhall.                 July 28, 1888.

     Uncle W. and Aunt F. arrived about eight, bringing
M. du Bois (a gentleman from Holland) with them.
During dinner and in the evening Uncle W. talked with

great animation to M. du Bois, drawing from him all
possible information about his kind of work in the

laboratory in Strasburg, also about public feeling in that
part of Germany with regard to the late and present
emperors. He also drew out all he could about the
social state of Holland, political and private, and its

relation to Belgium. At ten he asked me to play the

piano, and immediately his whole attention was given

to the music, detecting the composer by the difference in

style and quite surprised if he made a mistake. The
moment a few chords of Der Freischutz were struck he

got quite excited, and rising from his chair he came and

xx1 GATHERING UP THE THREADS 877

stood behind me not to lose a single note. " There is
nothing," he said, " more beautiful than Der Freischutz ;
there is stuff in it for at least four operas. Weber is a
most original and perfect composer." Bits in which he
used to take part long ago with his horn gave him
special delight. . . .

    It was wet in the afternoon, but in spite of the rain
Uncle William, Aunt Fanny, M. du Bois and I went out

for a scramble. First we scrambled up to the loft to see
the carrier pigeons, and Uncle W. asked the coachman
many questions as to why the various pigeons were
separated from one another. In the evening I played
again to Uncle William.

     . . . After breakfast Uncle W. stood for a while with
a delighted expression gazing at the reflexion of the
window in the polished oak table in the turret window,
nodding his head from side to side. " Come all of you
quick and look ! I see Heidinger's brushes better than
I ever saw them before." We all came and Aunt Fanny
was able to discover them for the first time, but I do not
think any of the rest of us saw them at all. Uncle W.
told us how he had given a lecture on them one evening
on board a ship going to America, and next morning it
was very funny to see all the people nodding their heads
from side to side and gazing intently at the clouds.

    When sending to Lord Rayleigh, on August 25,
a piece of Iceland-spar showing striations due to
artificial twinning, he added a political postscript :--

     Did you not remember the political prisoners chained
to the most atrocious felons in Naples thirty-seven years

ago ? I should think Mr. Gladstone is the only person of

over forty-three in the United Kingdom who does not.

But if he had forgotten the state of things in Naples

thirty-seven years ago, he should have made himself
acquainted with it again, before comparing the regimes
of the two B's, as he did to the ignorant potters last week
at Hawarden.

878       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                CHAP.

    September 5th brought the meeting of the British

Association at Bath. At the Mathematical and

Physical Section, under the presidency of Fitz-
Gerald, there were notable discussions. Sir William

contributed three papers, and joined in a fourth

along with his former pupils, Professors Ayrton and
Perry, concerning a new determination of "v,"

the ratio of the electromagnetic and electrostatic

units. His papers were : A Simple Hypothesis for

Electromagnetic Induction of Incomplete Circuits ;
On the Transference of Electricity within a Homo

geneous Solid Conductor ; and On Five Applica
tions of Fourier's Law of Diffusion, illustrated by

a diagram of curves with absolute numerical values.

This last, reprinted in Vol. III. of the Mathematical

and Physical Papers, p. 428, was a discussion of

the equation which Fourier had found for the

"linear motion of heat," as now applied to other
          " qualities  "
physical                   ;  the  velocity  of motion  as

propagated into a viscous fluid ; the diffusion of

liquids into one another ; the diffusion of induced

electric currents into a homogeneous conductor

(which Heaviside had shown to be analogous to
the setting of water into motion by friction on its

boundary) ; and the diffusion of electric potential in

the conductor of a submarine cable. This short

but useful paper was strongly reminiscent of the
article on the " Uniform Motion of Heat," which

Thomson had given forty-six years before (see

p. 42) when an undergraduate.                The other two

papers belong to the burning question of 1888,

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 879

electromagnetic theory. Sir William, as we know,
had never accepted Clerk Maxwell's electro
magnetic theory of light, nor the notion of " dis

placement currents," on which that theory is based.

His reasons for this attitude are discussed on pp.
1021-1025 below. But in the recent years Maxwell's
pupils and disciples, Lord Rayleigh, FitzGerald,

J. J. Thomson, Hopkinson, Glazebrook, Poynting,

O. Heaviside, Oliver Lodge, and others, had been
actively pushing Maxwell's theory and testing its
applications. Lodge, in particular, had studied the
phenomena of the propagation of electric waves
along wires, with many beautiful experimental
illustrations of their reflexion, and the establish

ment of nodal points, when periodic surgings were
reflected. For two years, indeed, the application
of these considerations to lightning protection had
engaged the British Association. But now, on the
top of all this, came the splendid work of Hertz,
proving experimentally that electric waves, gene
rated by the sudden discharge of charged con
ductors, as suggested by FitzGerald in 1883, could
be propagated across open space without wires,
reflected and refracted, just as waves of light can
be, and herein obeyed Maxwell's equations.

    Sir William's part in this discussion is recounted

on p. 1041 infra.
    To the Philosophical Magazine of November

1888, Sir William contributed a striking paper,
which has not been reprinted elsewhere, " On the
Reflexion and Refraction of Light."

88o             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                        CHAP.

    Litigation about the compass (see p. 718) kept
Sir William Thomson in London for more than a

week in the autumn of 1888, and he stayed with

his widowed sister, Mrs. King, then residing in

Hamilton Terrace, St. John's Wood. The diary
of Miss Agnes G. King records some of the events
of the time in the following extracts :--

Nov. 20, 1888. --Case of Infringement of Compass

came on at last ; should have begun on Friday. Uncle

William and mother dined at Sir Antony Hoskins's. Sir
A. said to mother, " I cannot tell you how all we naval
                              Mother answered, " I think
men love    your   brother."  likes him." " Likes him ! "
everybody   who   knows him
                1"8L8i8k.e--isWneothatdhegrweoartdex; cwiteemaellntlovaet
said Sir   A.                                                              him."
     Nov.  21,                                                             breakfast

dressing up eggs boiled and raw in little net bags, and

suspending them by threads, to demonstrate the steadying

effect of the oil under the compass boX. The arrangement

was quite a success, and Uncle W. went off in delight

...with his new toy, intending to call on Sir A. Hoskins on
his way to Court and show it.  Uncle W. came home

in the evening looking very bright ; everything had gone

well, and the warm and hearty evidence which his friends

among the naval men had given, pleased him exceedingly.

Captain Fisher's evidence was specially strong and very

amusing from all accounts. He described the absolute

steadiness of the compass in the bombardment of Alex

andria, when great guns were going off under it and

beside it.

    On his return to Glasgow he wrote, on

November 27, to Miss Agnes G. King :--

     Tell your mother that I look back with great pleasure
to my time in Hamilton Terrace last week and the week

before. It brightened for me a very anxious and irksome

duty in London, the latter part of which, however, became


                                               ·"· p- 71-'

                              .· ·: -MI, ior more t.
                                    , l·e stayer
                                                 fesidi:
                                    '.\'ood. The

                                     ·h--1n" of tbr <*.·
                                 .
                                            .·'

                                                                                    ·

                                                 Co-

                                       -'riday.

                                       Hoskius'.
                                       ·.

                                             ,f

                                                  I

                                 .1 .                       him "
                                 ':           i                                            !
                                                  ·:
                                                            oags, a.

                                              off in        .1                         · .'·'
                                                 Hoi           c ·i                    .1
                                              '.                                              i
                                                         ·
                                       .- »'·:·.                                       -'i-ne

                                     · -/I:ich - fr1ends

                                   ... ..l him!             cdingly.
                                                            -i very
                                   .Jly stmr    f

                                                        ^.
                                 ··scribe        :he at                                    ··'·»
                                                 -'it ff A'. -
                                    -l^r..

                                   1.- ..* :r-?er           it                         a-.!

   .\lj .-.         A        -... ^ nv iv wrote, on
                           ·
                            O'.s G. Kiny --
                                              :

   r            ·'   ..··k back *i:'. <reat piv,t-l'C
                    _-:·...c .a>t \v<.'s. -ind the ui,-k
   '.'.···;!!.·.  t

                    ". I
                              a
          .·'···-·?vl lor me very anxious and irk.-ome
·  >.n ···'. t*1e I.itt -r :'art of wh1ch, however, became

[1888]


xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 88 1

a pleasure, thanks to Captain Fisher and the other naval
and nautical men who gave much pleasing and amusing
evidence, and to the happy conclusion of the case.

    Sir William's insatiable curiosity to know the
latest data of science is illustrated by the following
postcard written to Professor Ewing, in the train,
on December 21, 1888, on his way to Knowsley,
for the usual Christmas visit to Lord Derby :--

     What is the very greatest magnetic force in air that 708
have got ? I suppose no one in the world has got
greater. What is your very greatest intensity of magneti
zation ? Wishing you a happy Xmas and " good New
Year."

     In 1888 the Society of Telegraph Engineers
was reconstituted on a wider basis as the Institution
of Electrical Engineers, and Sir William Thomson
was invited to assume the Presidency of the Insti
tution for the year 1889. On January 10 Lady
Thomson wrote to George Darwin :--

     Sir William has been very busy over his inaugural
address as President of Electrical Engineers, which he
gives to-morrow night. He goes to London to-night
and returns here Friday, by day or night.

    The main part of this address l was devoted to
the subject of Ether, Electricity, and Ponderable
Matter, and the relations between them. It was

prefaced, however, by allusions to the addresses
of some of the former Presidents of the Society,

and with a little note as to personal history. He
had spoken of the perplexity caused to early

    1 Journal of Institution of Electrical Engineers, xiii., 1890, pp. 4-37 ;
reprinted in Mathematical and Physical Papers, vol. iii. pp. 484-515.

882  LIFE OF LORD KELVINli  CHAP.

workers in submarine telegraphy by the inductive
embarrassment met with in cable-signalling, and of

Faraday's prediction that the Leyden-jar-like action
of the gutta-percha coating would cause retardation,
and of Varley's further investigation of 1854.

     And then came on the great Atlantic cable question.

I always remember how that question came upon me. I

see in Professor Stokes's presence with us this evening a
reminder of the circumstances. I was hurriedly leaving
the meeting of the British Association [Liverpool, 1854],

when a son of Sir William Hamilton, of Dublin, was

introduced to me with an electrical question. I was

obliged to run away to get to a steamer by which I was
bound to leave for Glasgow, and I introduced him to

Professor Stokes, who took up the question with a power
which is inevitable when a scientific question is submitted
to him. He wrote to me on the subject soon after that
time, and some correspondence between us passed, the
result of which was that a little mathematical theory was
worked out,1 which constituted, in fact, the basis of the
theory of the working of the submarine cable. In that
theory electromagnetic induction was not taken into
account at all. The leaving it out of account was justi
fied by the speed of signalling which the circumstances of
a cable exceeding 200 or 300 miles in length dictated.

     Sir William then went on to say how this further
question of electromagnetic induction --the retarda

 tion due to the magnetic field created around the

conductor by the current itself-- had been investi

 gated by him, and found to be absolutely imper

 ceptible at the highest speed suitable for working
 the cables then proposed. But now that old

 question was being revived.

                               1 By Thomson himself, see p. 33 1 ante.

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 883

     I had myself laid it aside in some corner of my mind
and in some slight corners of my notebooks for forty
years. Within the last forty days I have really worked
it out to the uttermost, merely for my own satisfaction.

But in the meantime it had been worked out in a very

complete manner by Mr. Oliver Heaviside, who has pointed

out and accentuated this result of  his   mathematical theory
                                    is a   positive benefit : it
-- that electromagnetic induction
helps to carry the current. It is the same kind of benefit

that mass is to a body shoved along against a viscous

resistance.

    This is at once followed by a highly characteristic
passage, in which Sir William illustrated the result
of mathematical theory by imagining a dynamical

model, in this case a carriage supposed to be

travelling through a viscous fluid :--

     Take a boat not floated but partially supported on
wheels, so that when loaded more heavily it will not sink
deeper in the fluid. . . . We will shove off two boats with

a certain velocity -- the boats of the same shape ; but let

one of them be ten times the mass of the other : it will
take greater force to give it its impulse, but it will go
farther. That is Mr. Heaviside's doctrine about electro
magnetic induction. It requires more electric force to
produce a certain amount of current, but the current goes
farther. . . . Old telegraphists remember that they always
used to say three or four good leaks in a cable, if they
would but kindly remain constant, and not introduce

extra trouble by earth currents, would make the signalling
more distinct. . . . Heaviside's way of looking at the
submarine cable problem is just one instance of how the
highest mathematical power of working and of judging as

to physical applications helps on the doctrine, and directs
it into a practical channel.

    He then added "one little piece of practical
information," in the shape of a formula for the

884         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                       CHAP.

ratio which represents the increase in the resistance
of a copper wire, when used for rapidly alternating

currents, arising from differences in the current-
density at the axis and at the periphery of the wire.
The formula was in terms of Bessel functions (real
and imaginary), and was accompanied by a numerical
table of values worked out. He then turned to the

hydrokinetic analogies by which he had been
endeavouring to elucidate electromagnetic theory.
It was, he said, merely a mathematical working
analogy, and as such exceedingly useful and
instructive, and a very potent one in helping us
in guessing out and in thinking out the practical
problems of electromagnetic induction. But there
was another analogy to which he gave the prefer

ence--the elastic solid idea which he had broached

in 1846 (see p. 198), only twenty-eight days after
he had entered on the work of his professorship.
He had then attempted to represent electric forces

by the displacement, and magnetic forces by the
resultant rotations of an elastic body ; and had then
declared that a special examination of the states
of a solid body, representing various problems in

electricity, magnetism, and galvanism, must be

reserved for a future paper.

     As to  this last sentence, I  can say now what   I said
                                                      future
forty-two   years ago--" must      be reserved for a
paper " \   I may add that I have been considering the
subject for forty-two years-- night and day for forty-two
years. I do not mean all of every day and all of every
night ; I do not mean some of each day and some of each

night ; but the subject has been on my mind all these

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 885

years. I have been trying many days and many nights

to find an explanation, but have not found it

    If we had nothing but electricity and ether toa                       a
                          a                                                          it.
consider, the problems of the electromagnetic
analogy could be realized by a model of an elastic

solid body having tubular pores filled with a dense
viscous fluid. But there was also magnetism to be
accounted for ; and he asked the audience to consider
the case of a solenoid having an electric current
circulating around its coils. "Whatever the current
of electricity may be, I believe this is a reality : it

does pull the ether round within the solenoid." And
yet though the ether could thus be pulled, as if it

were an elastic solid, the earth moves through

This led him to discuss the idea of an incom

pressible medium which yet possessed elasticity,
and to suggest sort of imaginary model of web-
like structure in which the rigidity was given to the

medium by putting gyrostat into each element of
the structure. But now, although such a medium
would afford a dynamical explanation of magnetism,

   left out unexplained the electrostatic forces. And

so the end was not satisfying.
a it
         it

                is

                    II

                                               a

                                    it I

                                    I
And here, am afraid, must end by saying that the

difficulties are so great in the way of forming anything

like a comprehensive theory, that we cannot even imagine

finger-post pointing way that can lead us towards the

explanation.    yoenalyr --satyhiswetimcaenntoetn  nyoewarsim--agthinise  it.   But
this time next                                                            time
hundred years -- probably                                                       one

                             will be just as easy as we

think  to understand that glass of water, which now

seems so plain and simple.                        cannot doubt but that

886            LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                     CHAP.

these things, which now seem to us so mysterious, will be

no mysteries   at all  ; that the scales will  faaldl iffrfeormenoturweayye--s ;
that we shall  learn   to look on things in

when that which is now a difficulty will be the only common-

sense and intelligible way of looking at the subject.

    On several occasions during this session of his
Presidency, Sir William Thomson took part in the

discussions at the Institution of Electrical Engineers ;

amongst the papers discussed being those of Dr.

(now Sir) Oliver Lodge on Lightning and Lightning
Protectors ; of Mr. W. M. Mordey on Alternate

Current Working ; of Mr. G. Hookham on Electric
Current Meters.

    He lectured in the spring of 1889 at the Royal
Institution on Electrostatic Measurement; he also

delighted the Belfast Natural History Society with
an exhibition of gyrostatic experiments. In May

he was busy thinking about systems of mutually

repelling particles and groups of molecules. All

this work issued in an important paper read to the

Royal Society of Edinburgh, on July 1, on the

Molecular Constitution of Matter (see p. 1050 infra).
    In view of the approaching Electrical Congress

in Paris, M. Mascart wrote to Sir William Thom
son, inviting him to be present. Sir William's reply

was negative.

                                                    12 GROSVENOR GARDENS, S.W.,
                                                            June 4, 1 889.

    DEAR MR. MASCART -- Your most kind letter has

been forwarded to me here. Alas, alas, I cannot have
the pleasure of being in Paris to take part in the Congress
of Electricians in August and to see the great Exhibition.
I have been kept very much in London by my duties as

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 887

President of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, and I

shall be detained still till near the end of the present

month, with official business and duty, connected with the

establishment of an electrical standardizing laboratory,

which we hope is to be taken in hand by our Government.

After so long an absence, I must return to Scotland and

remain there steadily to get through arrears of work

which have been of necessity accumulating all this time.

Lady Thomson and I have enjoyed all our visits to

Paris so much, and particularly the last one, that we shall

certainly go again when we can ; and we look forward as

a pleasure to come, to see you, and Mr. Bertrand, and your

families in your homes, as we saw you all this time last

year, and again to attend a meeting of the Academy and

see our colleagues there.

But in the meantime will you and Madame Mascart

not come to Scotland after your labours in the Congress

are over, and take a little holiday, for which by that time

you will, I am sure, be quite ready ? Scotland is still very

good in September, and it would be a great pleasure to us

to have a visit from you in our country house, Netherhall,

about 30 miles from Glasgow. We can run up by rail

with great ease any day to my laboratory, which is always

open, all the year round, if you would care to look in to it

for an hour and see what we may have in hand.

    My wife   joins in kindest regards to    you  and  your
              I remain, yours always truly,
family --and

                           WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Mascart, however, wrote again, urging him to

come, and he consented.

                                                                   NETHERHALL, LARGS,

                                                                 June 23, 1889.

    DEAR MR. MASCART -- I cannot resist your letter of

the 1 8th, kindly insisting on my presence at the Congress

of Electricians, and I have therefore arranged to come to

Paris in time to attend at the opening meeting on the 24th
of August, and to remain for, at all events, several days.

     Lady Thomson will be with me, and looks forward

888           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                 CHAP.

with pleasure to seeing you and Mme. Mascart again in

Paris, since you will not come to see us here this year. --

Believe me, yours very truly,  WILLIAM THOMSON.

The next day he wrote to Lord Rayleigh.

     I am going to Paris after all to be present at the

opening of the Electrical Congress on the 2 4th of August,
and to remain a few days of it. I had such an appeal
ing letter from Prof. Mascart that I could not resist !
...I wish you were coming too. Will you not come? It
would be much better fun with you.  I found on our

way from London to Glasgow last Thursday a complete

settlement of the Boscovich theory of elastic solid. A

homogeneous system of single points in equilateral

tetrahedral order, each attracting or repelling its next

neighbour, according as the distance between them is

greater than, or is less than, a (the edge of the static

tetrahedron) gives a stable elastic solid. . . .

    On August 5 he wrote again to Lord Rayleigh
on the subject of surface - tension, and makes a

reference to the capillary curves given in Vol. I. of
his Popular Lectures.

Before I knew of Neumann's having done anything

in the matter I saw his theorem in soup (every time I

had      of   particular  kind. The pictures,        27 of my
" Pop "  (by  the bye     this title has been
                                                  abused un
       it)
                a

                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                  ;

                                                                                          p.

                                                                           in

                                                                                                     a
mercifully by Critics in the newspapers), were drawn

from observation.

    In August came the Electrical Congress in Paris.
Sir William took the opportunity to make three

short communications to the Academic des Sciences,

one on the molecular tactics involved             the

artificial twinning of Iceland-spar another on the
equilibrium of atoms and on the elasticity of solids
in the theory of Boscovich the third being

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 889

description of one of his models to visualize the
physical properties of the ether. Sir William and

Lady Thomson returned from Paris on September 4.

On the iith they were at Newcastle attending

the British Association meeting, to which he gave

a paper on Boscovich's Theory. After the meeting

they stayed on, during which they were the guests
of Captain (now Sir Andrew) Noble, for a few days
with Lord Armstrong at Cragside. In November
came the news that Sir William had been made a

Grand Officer of the Legion of Honour.

    Mrs. King, staying in her brother's house at
the University in November, sent letters to her

daughters which afford glimpses of his activities

and engagements.

   Nov. 22, 1889. -- . . . Uncle William went to London

last night. He dined comfortably at 7.30 on all the

courses, including entrees and game and his coffee, and set

off in good, quiet style, and the ladies went up to the
drawing-room when, lo and behold ! there was the " green
book " lying on the sofa. The telephone was instantly

in requisition to summon a cab with all speed, and

Margaret the housemaid was ordered to meet and being
is a
                                it

                                                                 is
                                                                                      it,

                                                                              It
capable woman she did so and succeeded in putting the

precious book into Uncle William's hands before the train

started, and he got before he had missed it.

    Nov. 23, 1889. -- Uncle William came back this morn
ing quite fresh after his busy day in London. It was to

meet with the Lords of the Admiralty that he went.

marvellous how easily travelling conducted now. He

goes so often by night to London the railway attendant

knows exactly how to make his bed, and all the little

arrangements he likes, and attends most carefully to his

comfort. He drove at once to Admiral Fisher's, where

he had his bath before 8.30 breakfast, and then set off
VOL. II
                                        X

890  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN     CHAP.

about his various business.  The meeting with the

Admiralty was most satisfactory to him, for it is now

ordained that his be the standard compass, and be used

throughout the Navy.

Much mean and underhand work has been brought to

light. For instance, of 60 letters (I suppose in answer
to inquiries) from Captains, one from the Captain of the

Euryalus spoke of some slight objection to the compass,

eight said they had not had sufficient experience, and

the remainder spoke of it in terms of unbounded

admiration and appreciation. Of these letters the 51 had

never been produced, but were hidden away in pigeon

holes in the Hydrographic Office, and the disapproving

one was made a great deal of. I believe this has been

going on for years and that Admiral Fisher has been

instrumental in exposing the abuse. . . . There is much

...of the Circumlocution Office in the whole affair.

Uncle William does not want it talked of.

    In December 1889 there was held in the Bute
Hall of the University of Glasgow a great bazaar
in aid of the funds of the Students' Union. Sir

William and Lady Thomson took a very active
part in this affair, which resulted in a profit of over
;£i 1,000. Lady Thomson's stall alone took over

^2000.

    In this year Sir William was a member of the
Royal Commission upon the University of London,

which up to that time had been merely an Examining
Body. For some years an agitation had been pro

ceeding to create a teaching University in London.
The majority of the Commission declared in favour
of reconstructing the existing University. Sir
William Thomson, along with Sir George Stokes
and the Head Master of Harrow, presented a

xx1 GATHERING UP THE THREADS 891

minority report, favouring the creation of a separate

Teaching University.
    His year of presidency of the Electrical Engineers

having expired, Sir William Thomson, on January 9,
1890, duly installed Dr. John Hopkinson as his
successor. Before retiring from the Presidential
Chair, he called the attention of members to the

fact that electrical engineering originated with tele
graphy, and specially with submarine telegraphy.
He reminded them that he himself had been a

shareholder in the first Atlantic cable of 1858,
and a co-director with Sir John Pender, who in
the hour of crisis gave a guarantee of a quarter of
a million sterling for the funds required for the

enterprise.

    On February 1 he wrote to Lord Rayleigh :--

                                THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

                                Feb. 1/90.
DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH -- See Maxwell, vol.
                                                     ii.       537.
Is the last paragraph of this very approximately true    §
                                it                               is a a
in practical cases  ;?             it is §

And have you evidence that on suddenly breaking?
         is ;
primary circuit, the total quantity flowing throughit

secondary circuit (with galvanometer coil in it) if
independent of the suddenness with which the primary

circuit        broken and that  that calculated from the

self-induction of the secondary circuit and the ohmic

resistance of the secondary circuit supposing the current

to be running full bore through
         seems to me that ordinary practical suddenness of
It

breaking primary circuit must be such that the ohmic
               a

effective resistance in the secondary, even of wire · cm.
                                                     a
                                                            I
diam., or less, must be largely augmented in virtue of the

current not running full-bore through during sufficient

892         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                        CHAP.

part of the whole time of the discharge to consume a

large proportion of the whole energy. I suppose I

might find an answer to this by reading through all your
papers and all Oliver Heaviside's, but I prefer this

method as   "agsrihpoprete."r--cuYt.oursI , hope  you  are long ago quite
out of the                                               W. THOMSON.

This inquiry was the basis of a paper in the

Philosophical Magazine in March 1890.
    Three days later he wrote again, on Oscillations

of the Atmosphere, suggesting that the large semi

diurnal term in the variations of the barometer may

be due to one of the modes of free vibration of

the atmosphere being in period not very different
from twelve hours. The next letter is to von

Helmholtz.

                                                  NETHERHALL, LARGS,

                                                                             Feb. 24, 1890.

DEAR HELMHOLTZ -- I have just this morning heard

from Tait that the Senate of Edinburgh University has

invited you to be Gifford Lecturer for the next period of
two years, and I lose not a minute in writing to beg you

to accept We have so long wished to see you again in

Scotland, that now, with such an occasion as this, we hope

very much that you will be induced to come. During

the month of the engagement in Edinburgh each year

you must live part of the time with us in Glasgow, as the

railway journey is quite short (i|- hour). The actual
lecturing would, I am sure, be interesting to yourself if

                                                  which hope will be
     ;

             I

                               I

                                                 a it,

                                                   it
                                                       I

                                                                                     is
you feel that you can undertake

the case and  need not say that                        will be greatly

appreciated in Scotland, and by far wider public than
those who will hear you, or than Scotland.

     Lady Thomson and  are here from Friday to

Monday, as we are as often as we can get away

from Glasgow at the end of the week, but Glasgow                                         our

home during the winter session.

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 893

It chances that Prof, and Mrs. Max Miiller are

with us and I have told him of the wish of Edinburgh.

He allows me to say that he is most anxious that you

should accept. He will write and tell you about the

conditions. We hope that Mrs. von Helmholtz will come

with you. My wife joins in urging that you should

accept, and in kind regards to you both, believe me,

yours always truly,                   W. THOMSON.

To the Edinburgh Mathematical Society in

February he sent a paper on the Moduluses of

Elasticity in an Ideal Elastic Solid, constructed

according to Boscovich's theory of an assemblage

of points ; and in March, another on a Mechanism

for the Constitution of the Ether, to the Royal
Society of Edinburgh.

In April and May he was discussing electric

oscillations at the Glasgow Philosophical Society

and at the Institution of Electrical Engineers.

The remarkable discovery by Hopkinson of a

nickel steel which could assume either a highly-

magnetic or a non - magnetic state, according to

treatment, excited him greatly, and on receiving a

sample he wrote :--
                                                                  GLASGOW UNIVERSITY,
                                                                         March 27/90.
    DEAR HOPKINSON -- I shall be glad to do anything I
can in respect to your law case should it go on and my

assistance be desired.

    I have not hitherto been able to make any experiments

on the specimen of nickel iron wire which you sent me ;
but I had just within the last three or four days been
arranging to take it in hand. So I hope very soon to

see for myself,    and to let my        laboratory corps    see
something of your  wonderful result.
                                      -- Yours very truly,

                                      WILLIAM THOMSON.

894  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

        .]-- I shall be very glad to hear what you find with

the new samples.

    Sir William was still busy gathering up the

threads to complete his third volume of Collected

Papers, and at last, in May 1890, he was able to fix

on a mechanical representation of magnetic force,

which had baffled him ever since November 1846.
The account of it constitutes Article xcix. of

Vol. III., which he was now able to finish. Its

preface is dated from Peterhouse Lodge, June 2,

1890.

   A project for utilizing the powers of Niagara was

now on foot, and the American promoters turned

for advice to the highest authorities in Europe.
They first approached Sir William Thomson ;

and the following letter which he wrote to Mascart

shows the stage at which the proposition had

arrived :--

                                                PETERHOUSE LODGE, CAMBRIDGE,
                                                            June 21/90.

    DEAR PROF. MASCART -- I have to-day given a note

of introduction to Mr. Edward D. Adams (President of
the New York Cataract Company, controlling the Niagara
Falls) which he will probably present you in Paris about
ten days hence. He will be accompanied by Dr. Sellers,
of Philadelphia, who is consulting engineer to the
Company. They have come to Europe for the purpose
of seeing and learning about electrical and hydraulic
works. The Company is on a very solid foundation,
being connected with some of the American bankers of

highest character, and supported by all the money they
require, so that they are not asking for subscriptions either
in this country or in America.

     They wish to form a consulting Commission of four,

xx1 GATHERING UP THE THREADS 895

and have asked me to preside. They wish to have you

as one of the four, and they will explain the conditions

and terms to you when they see you. Dr. Sellers is to

be one of the Commission, and for the fourth they think

of asking Mr. Turrettini (I am not sure if I spell his name
correctly), who has done great hydraulic work at Geneva.

I have consented to act on the Commission for them,

and I hope you will see your way to join it also. The

work and plans which will be put before us will be most

interesting ; and the Company is of such a character that
it will be thoroughly satisfactory and creditable to us

to be associated with it as advisers.

Lady Thomson joins in kindest regards to you and

Madame Mascart, and     reminds  her   of her promise     to
bring you to see us in  Glasgow  and   Netherhall soon.
                                                         --

Believe me, yours very truly,    WILLIAM THOMSON.

    The Niagara Commission 1 of experts, as finally
constituted, consisted of Sir William Thomson
(chairman), M. Mascart, Col. Turrettini, Professor
W. C. Unwin, and Dr. Coleman Sellers. Professor

George Forbes was appointed as the official
engineer. The promoters invited projects from the
chief European electrical contractors, as well as

from American engineers. Twenty - six different
plans were submitted. After many months the

Commissioners were in a position to report ; and
eventually none of the plans proposed was adopted,

though some use was made of fourteen of them.
The engineer, in conjunction with Dr. Coleman
Sellers, drew up the designs for the Cataract Com

pany, and the contracts were given to American
engineers to execute. Sir William Thomson was

    1 See Cotsier's Magazine, June 1892 and July 1895 ; also Electrical
Review, Feb. 9, 1894.

896                LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                      CHAP.

throughout and to the last entirely opposed 1 to the
use of alternating currents in any shape, but was

in a hopeless minority. The machines for the first
power-house were two -phase alternators, of about
3500 kilowatts each, and of a special type designed
by George Forbes, having an internal fixed arma

ture and an external revolving field-magnet system.
    In September 1890 the British Association met

at Leeds. Sir William Thomson made five com

munications to the sectional meetings ; on Con
tact Electricity, on Alternating Currents in Parallel
Conductors, on Anti-effective Copper in Parallel Con
ductors, on a Method of Determining the Magnetic
Susceptibility of Diamagnetic and Feebly Magnetic
Substances, and on some of his newer electrical

instruments.

    Sir William had purposed to go in October to
Cambridge to attend the statutory meeting of the
Fellows of his College, but for once he was absent.
Lady Thomson wrote to Darwin, " Sir William has

been, and so busy over endless things, University
Commission, etc. etc., that he has written to the
Master they can do without him this time." He
1

       I:

       I if

                is,
                   I

                                            6,
                                                         a
                                                                          a
     "IHe wrote, on January 1892, when the first machines were nearly ready
for work  am much interested in what you tell me about the progress of

the Niagara work.  am very glad that contracts are being made for the

power, and hope soon to hear of commencement of its actual use having

begun.    do not believe that alternating currents will be found to be the

right solution of the electric transmission to distance.                     have no doubt in
                                                                             II
my own mind but that the high-pressure direct-current system greatly to be
                                                                                        is
preferred to alternating currents. The fascinating character of the mathe

matical problems and experimental illustrations presented by the alternating

current system, and the facilities which  it  presents for the distribution of

electric light through sparsely populated districts, have, think, tended to

lead astray even engineers, who ought to be insensible to everything except

estimates of economy and utility."

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 897

had a prospect of being even more busily occupied ;
for not only were the meetings of the Niagara
Commission in prospect, but it was well known in
the Royal Society that Sir George Stokes would
resign the Presidency of that body in November,
and the general consensus of the Fellows was fixed
upon Sir William as the next President.

     St. Andrew's day, November 30, is the date fixed
by the statutes of the Royal Society for the election
of Council and of a new President. Sir William

had long been marked out for this, the highest honour
which scientific men in Great Britain can offer to the
most distinguished of their number. He had had no
fewer than ten important memoirs in the Philosophical
Transactions ; he had been a Fellow since 1851 ; he
had received a Royal Medal in 1856, and the Copley
Medal in 1883. He was now to step into the Presi
dential Chair, to occupy it for the five years which
custom has ordained as the period of its occupancy.

    Sir William Thomson was now much more in

London than in previous seasons ; and by reason of
his position as President he was invited to many
functions, such as the annual banquets of the Royal
Academy of Arts, the Institution of Civil Engineers,
and of other learned societies and other professional
bodies. This necessitated many journeys between
London and Glasgow, and his ability to sleep
soundly while travelling at night stood him in good
stead. He had other matters, too, to keep him
busy. He had invented a new water-tap to super

sede those which in domestic use gave so much

898           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                               CHAP.

trouble by dripping when worn, or when their
packing had hardened with age ; and he was

troubled by threatened litigation over his patent
compass. Also his thoughts were running on the

old problems (see page 157) of electric and magnetic
screening. On this topic he wrote an inquiry to
Lord Rayleigh on March 16, 1891, adding the
news : " My compass case is settled between the

solicitors at complete surrender, plus .£500 towards

damages and costs." He was to lecture in April at

the Royal Institution on Electric Screening, and

prepared to send to the Royal Society two papers
on the same subject. Respecting the second of
these he wrote on March 29 to Lord Rayleigh,

saying that it would include the following matters :--

     Let a closed copper shell                 need not be a figure of
                        a

                                     (it
revolution) rotate about any axis. Let                          second, en
                                               It
closing rotate about second axis exactly perpendicular
            it,                                         is 1
to the first. Let any magnet be held at rest inside the      a
                 if It
first shell.            will exert no influence on space outside the

second shell the rotations are sufficiently rapid.

     Variational action, not too excessively rapid, pro
                        if

motes electrostatic transparency.              promotes electro
magnetic opacity. A sheet of black paper in ordinary

hygrometric condition       a perfect screen against steady
                        is
                                 is

                                       i
                                            o
electrostatic force.    If the force alternates ± with

moderate frequency, say from periods to 0,000,000 per

second, the paper no screen at all. If the frequency be

greater than 200 x iois the paper screen again opaque.

    On April 24 his students presented him with

an address congratulating him on his election as

President of the Royal Society. In acknowledging
the presentation he said " have been a student
                            :

                                I

XXI GATHERING UP THE THREADS 899

of the University of Glasgow for fifty-five years

to-day   '  and  I  hope  to continue  a student  in  the

        ;

University of Glasgow as long as I live."

        SIR WILLIAM THOMSON REPLYING TO THE STUDENTS' ADDRESS,
                                                April 34, 1891.

    This season he rented a suite of rooms at No.
127 Ebury Street, London, from the end of the
Glasgow session. Thence he wrote on May i to
his sister Mrs. King : "We are going to-day to the

    1 This impression seems not to correspond accurately with the records ;
for he matriculated in October 1834 (see page 8). The accompanying
illustration, which appeared in the Daily Graphic of April 28, 1891, is repro
duced by the courtesy of the proprietors of that journal.

900  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

private view of the Academy, where we are de

lighted to hear that Elizabeth [Miss King] has a
picture. To-morrow we go to the opening of the
Naval Exhibition, and, as P.R.S., I dine in the

Royal Academy in the evening."

   A recent development in the kinetic theory of

gases, known as the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine,

had given him matter for thought of late. Accord
ing to this doctrine the kinetic energy in a mass of
gas under given conditions of pressure and tempera

ture is distributed in equal proportions between the

translatory motions of the molecules as they fly

about in space and their rotatory motions within
themselves. Sir William Thomson was unable to

admit that this law was anything but empirical, and

persistently disputed its foundation. Lord Rayleigh,

on the other hand, was its stoutest upholder. There

was much discussion between them, and many were

the notes and postcards which Sir William sent,
raising case after case to contest its generality. At the

Royal Society on June 1 1 he stated for discussion a
number of test-cases. He had written on June 6 to

Lord Rayleigh a problem of this kind, and added :--

     I am confining my " test-case " to placing it before

the Royal Society for consideration ; and it is not this

question, but the Baltimore molecule that is to constitute
it. I am sorry you are not to be at Greenwich [at
                                                      the
Annual Visitation of the Royal Observatory] to-day.
                                                       If

you had come we might have got the question settled.

     The Board of Trade had recently appointed an

Electrical Standards Committee to settle for legal

purposes the denominations of Electrical Standards

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 901

in the United Kingdom, and so give legislative
weight to the decisions of the International Con
gress of 1889. Sir William Thomson was naturally

consulted in this matter. At the meetings of the
Committee, from January to July 1891, he took an

active part in the discussions, and in the examina

tion of scientific witnesses. He was strongly in
favour of making the standard ohm of solid metal.
He opposed the acceptance of the Clark cell as a
standard of electromotive force on the ground that
it was not permanent. He also signed the supple
mentary reports of 1892 and 1894.

     In referring to the ampere, Sir William Thomson

said that the grave accent on the first "e" in the

name should be omitted, as the word had now be

come adopted into the English language. This was
agreed ; and a reference to the Order in Council
issued on August 23, 1894, will show that the law

recognizes this to be the spelling.

    The season over, Sir William and Lady Thomson
sailed for Madeira. Lady Thomson wrote on
August 19 to Mrs. King, "William sits out all day

under the trees very happy with his green book, and
deep in a very difficult problem which he is working

hard to solve ! It is a grand time for him."
     On September i Sir William addressed to Lord

 Rayleigh a letter, dated " In a hammock, Camacha,"
 Madeira, telling him of a manuscript he had sent to
the Philosophical Magazine about a model with a

jointed pendulum and a jumping clock which is "a

902      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                    CHAP.

perfectly decisive test-case against the Boltzmann-
                   "           adds :-- " This
Maxwell  doctrine      ;  and                   (Madeira)

is perpetual Senate-house. Book-work and problem

papers to be done with no books of reference."

     By September 12 they were back in England ; but

the British Association meeting at Cardiff was over.

     In November 1891 he was repeatedly writing to
Lord Rayleigh on a mathematical matter -- Hill's
determinant --on which he had doubts. To one of
"Ithese notes he added a postscript :
                                                have been

seeing Parker's great electric factory at Wolver-

hampton (now belonging to the Electric Construc

tion Co.). It is splendid --far ahead of anything I
have seen before." To another letter was appended

a paragraph on the installation, on November 26, of

Mr. A. J. Balfour as Lord Rector at Glasgow, when

he delivered an address on Progress. " Prince

Arthur has been most charming and potent in philo

sophy yesterday and politics to-day. His reception

was splendid ; classes and masses unitedly enthu

siastic and appreciative." Mr. Balfour stayed with

Sir William in the University. There was after

wards a banquet in the City Hall, at which, replying

to the toast of the University, Sir William spoke of
himself as " a child of the University," and described

the changes in its constitution which himself had

witnessed by the action of two successive Royal

Commissions. The next day, acting as the spokes

man of a number of friends and subscribers, Mr.

Balfour presented to the University a portrait

by Herkomer, of Sir William, which had been

xxi GATHERING UP THE THREADS 903

subscribed for in commemoration of his election
as President of the Royal Society. In presenting
the portrait Mr. Balfour eulogized the unceasing,
the astonishing activity of mind which had secured

him the gratitude of this generation and the title to
fame in the generations to come. Sir William, in

acknowledging the presentation, said :--

    I have felt that to live in the University of Glasgow,
and to remain at the University of Glasgow to the end

of my life, is the career that has been most of all con

ducive to my happiness and                       appropriate  --to togivperovmidee  the
                                               surroundings                         for
means,  thseurrpoousnitdioinng, sa--ndththaet                                        on
me the                                         have allowed me to go

with my scientific work. The facilities that the Uni

versity has given me for experimental research, the

splendid assistance that I have obtained voluntarily,

offered voluntarily, and continued voluntarily, and

persevered in through a great deal of hard and straining
work voluntarily, by students of the University of

Glasgow, has done more for me than words can tell, and

without which it would have been impossible for me to

realize any of the results which have been spoken of in so

appreciative a manner to-day. I can only say, in the name

of Lady Thomson and myself, that we are deeply grateful.

    Sir William's Presidential Address to the Royal
Society on St. Andrew's day dealt with the most

recent geodetic observations, in which certain

changes in the position of the axis of rotation
of the earth's globe had been detected. He also

spoke of the recent Faraday centenary, and of the

relations between the Royal Society and the London
County Council in the matter of purity of water-

supply. A note of personal reminiscence was struck

in the following paragraph :--

904                   LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP, xxi

     The name of Becquerel has been famous in science
since the days of Biot, Davy, De La Rive, Faraday,

Ampere, and Arago. I well remember going to the
Jardin des Plantes, in Paris, in January 1845, with an
introduction from Professor James Forbes to Antoine
Cesar Becquerel, who, even at that remote time, was a

veteran in physical science ; and finding him in his

laboratory there, assisted in work regarding electrolytically

deposited films on polished metallic surfaces and their
colours, by his son Edmond, a bright young man who

had already commenced following his father's example as

an active worker in experimental physics. . . .

    There was a little family dinner party that
Christmas at the University in Sir William's house,

at which his sister, Mrs. King, and Professor James
Thomson were present. Mrs. King sent to her
daughters an account of it :--

    We had a lively dinner yesterday. Uncle James and Uncle
William were very bright, and it was most amusing and interest

ing. The question of the franchise for women, and the action of
New Zealand in the matter, arose, and Uncle James referred to
Anacreon's opinion of women. Uncle William challenged him

to quote, and Uncle James recited the ode in Greek, and then
translated for the benefit of the unlearned. It enumerated the

gifts   of   --thteo  gods  to various creatures, as the lion, the horse,
etc.   etc.           Man   courage, power, wisdom ; to Woman beauty,

which is stronger than all and can vanquish all. There was a

great deal of the gaiety and wit of the College parties in the

Iolden time that remember so well, and yet there were only the

Florentines [the James Thomsons]. There is certainly a great
deal in this house to quicken one's wits. An interesting man,

an electrical friend of Uncle William's, took tea here yesterday,

and I listened with extreme interest to their talk, and watched

Uncle William's keenness of perception and brilliance of inspira

tion. I do enjoy this sort of thing.

    This was the last time that the two brothers and

their sister were together.

            CHAPTER XXII

            THE PEERAGE

NEW YEAR'S DAY, 1892, brought the announcement
that a peerage of the realm had been conferred by

Queen Victoria upon Sir William Thomson. The
offer of this honour was made by the Prime Minister,
Lord Salisbury, in a private and personal letter
written with his own hand. It was couched in very
friendly and personal terms, expressing the anticipa
tion that the influence of the eminent man of science

in the House of Lords would be a great access of

strength to them, especially on certain subjects in

which their Lordships were not particularly strong.
The announcement was received with general satis

faction in the public press, as a well-earned recogni

tion of the pre-eminent position which Sir William

Thomson by common consent held in science.

    The Times spoke of his   "  u"nuqnuiveestrisoanlleyd    distinction."  the  The
Daily Telegraph hailed him                                regarded as           first
                            as

physicist, and one of the profoundest mathematicians, most

suggestive  thinkers, and  most    original  inventors of the age."
            News spoke of  his "  European    reputation as a man of
The Daily

science before he became President of the Royal Society," but

hinted that he had other claims upon the present Unionist

Government by reason of the very prominent part he had taken
VOL. II
                                905                                        Y

906               LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                              CHAP.

on behalf of the Liberal Unionist cause. The Globe, after

declaring that Science has not generally             been          thhiethreertwo erreeco"gmnizaendy
as leading to the House of Peers, and                that

reasons why it should not, like the high careers of government,

statesmanship,   apnadtrohnigizhingcloymmthaant d",  be made       a regular highroad
thither," added                                      it should     not be without its

representatives, when exceptionally qualified, as is assuredly the

case in respect of Sir William Thomson." It quoted the opinion
of Faraday that a great man of science could not be honoured by

a title any more than a great poet ; but added that it was surely
better to have men of intellect in the peerage than men of money.
The Spectator described him as "the first man of science, we
think, who ever received the distinction of rank for work in that

domain."   SiTr hWe ilBliiarmminTghhoammsonPos"tisoabwsearrvdeedd  that the peerage con
ferred on                                                          for work about which

there can be no question as to its extent or character. Not for

services connected with the destruction of human life, but for

those which elevate its character, enlarge its capacities, and in

crease its happiness, the new peer has deserved his honour."
The Manchester Examiner considered that there was a certain

appropriateness in the destiny by which Lord Tennyson owes his

peerage to  Mr. Gladstone, and Sir William Thomson his to Lord
Salisbury.   " The man of words and the man of deeds -- both
being men
             of ideas --are again placed in contrast with each

other." The Scottish newspapers, without exception, applauded

"Athe elevation to the peerage of one so highly esteemed throughout
Scotland.         peerage has at length been conferred upon a

scientific man because he is a scientific man," said the British

Medical Journal.

Sir William was himself sincerely pleased with

the token of official appreciation which thus had

been publicly offered to him ; and there were great

rejoicings at his house in the University. But

rejoicings were strangely mingled with sorrow, when
the very next day brought from Madeira news of

the death of Mrs. Blandy, the mother of Lady

Thomson. Mrs. King, arriving on January 3rd to
congratulate her brother, found two piles of letters

on the table, condolences and congratulations alike

testifying to the sympathy and regard of friends and

xxII THE NAME KELVIN 907

relations. Already the question of selecting a title
had been discussed. The name " Kelvin, " taken

from the Kelvin River, which winds its way through

the Kelvin Grove below the (new) University build

ings, had been favoured by those most concerned ;

and, when his sister independently suggested Sir
William, turning to his wife, said " Did you hear
                           it                                         it,

                                ;                                            ;

                                 it                                       I
                                     it

                                                               ;:
that Elizabeth thought of too Elizabeth agrees
?
          ;                   shall be Lord Kelvin
with us that decides

will write to Lord Salisbury at once." Mrs. King
wrote to her elder daughter " Uncle William showed
                           :

us many of the letters he has received the kind
                                                                   ;

tone of all goes to his heart and fills him with happy

wonder."

   A fortnight later Lord Sandford, visiting Glasgow

as one of the Scottish University Commissioners,

called at Sir William's house, and took tea with them.

His father had been Professor of Greek in Glasgow,

before Lushington, and little William Thomson had

attended his classes in 1834-35. As boys they had
played together on the banks of the Molendinar

Burn, which flowed through the old College Green.

Now they renewed their childish reminiscences,

and Lord Sandford promised to act as one of the

peers to introduce Lord Kelvin to the House of

Lords when he should attend in his robes to take

the oath of allegiance. His other introducer was to

be Lord Rayleigh but the patent of peerage was
                 :
not yet issued.         ;

    Lady Thomson had written on January 6th to

George Darwin --

908     LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                  CHAP.

                                         GLASGOW UNIVERSITY, Jan. 6/92.

     MY DEAR MR. DARWIN --You will probably have

heard before this that our joys and sorrows have come

very near together, and so will forgive my not having

written to you sooner to thank you and Maud for your

very kind congratulations. The day after we heard of

the Peerage we heard by telegram from Madeira of my

mother's death -- it came upon us as a great blow, as we

had been having letters from her up to two days before

the telegram, telling us how well she was keeping. Every

body has been so kind and said such kind words to us

over this honour to Sir William that we have been quite

overpowered. We have no new name yet. We have

proposed Kelvin as being connected with Glasgow and

the University, and not being too territorial -- but it waits

the  Queen's sanction.    So in   the meantime      we  are  still
Sir  Wm. and Lady T.               most sincerely,
                        -- Yours

                                       F. A. THOMSON.

    Sir William had, meantime, written to various

friends -- Lord Rayleigh, Dr. J. Hall Gladstone, and

others.
                                      GLASGOW UNIVERSITY, Jan. 3/92.

    DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH -- I enclose C.'s paper, which,

if you approve, may be put in type for the 2 1 st, with
slight pencil corrections I have made. It is scarcely

worth while sending it back to the author for his

approval.

    I had a very bad time all the holidays over

-- x+fdx* + (« + jScos  cos 2x + . . .)« = o.       It works out

beautifully, and with great ease for all values of a and /9

(unless a is too very great), where 7 = 0, etc. But with
                             cos x I
anything beyond      « + /3  of which  don't yet    see anything
satisfactory on the  plan               I wrote to
                                                    you. -- Yours

truly,                                 x ( ? x = Kelvin).
     [P.S.] --With best wishes for the New Year from my
wife and myself to you and Lady Rayleigh.

xxii THE PEERAGE 909

                                           THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

MY  DEAR         GLADSTONE -- I            thank                                      Jan. 9/92.   for  your
                                                                                     you heartily

kind congratulations, and for what you say of science in

connection with them.
     We have proposed " Kelvin " as the title for the sake

of association with the University and city of Glasgow :

but till the Queen approves nothing can be decided.
    I am very glad to hear you are all well, in these trying

and dangerous saturnalia of microbes.

     Lady Thomson joins me in kind regards to all and

best wishes for the New Year. -- Believe me, yours very

sincerely,                                 WILLIAM THOMSON.

                                           THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

DEAR LORD               RAYLEIGH -- I      February 13, 1892.
                                           suppose the Bakerian
Lecture l will be taken on Thursday the loth of March, as

that has been fixed for the Council meeting, and I shall

be present.1            however,           more convenient to take
                        I.                                                                              it
                   If,           it
                                       is
on the 7th, you could do the reading and exposition
                        It will be fully written out and
at least as well as

illustrated with at least two large diagrams. My brother,

though he not able for much work or use of his eyes,
             is

hopes to have the paper complete before the end of

February.

    Will you be inclined to dine at the Royal Society

Club on Thursday evening next                                                        would like to do so,
if
                                                                  ?
                                                   I
and you would also we might have some better oppor

tunity than the business at Burlington House allows of

talking over non-official questions, and particularly high

frequency and high potential.
     Was Tesla's light in vacuum tubes more brilliant than

that of ordinary vacuum tubes excited by coils capable of

giving sparks half foot long                                                         can conceive of its
1
                             p.

                                    a

                                                                                  ?

                                            I
being so, because of the greater time-integrals of the

+ 100,000 volts and of the -- 100,000 volts than that of
the high potential of one sign in the ordinary induction

         On the Grand Currents of Atmospheric Circulation, by Professor James
Thomson. See 918.

910 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

coil illuminating vacuum tubes. It seems to me, in short,

that the time-integral of the light will be greater and

therefore the appearance brighter than with induction

coils : but not greater, that I can at present see, than that

of vacuum tubes lighted by an ordinary electrical machine

giving 100,000 volts.

The marvel to The Times and others is there being

no wire going through the glass, but the reporters can

scarcely be expected to know of the electric light by the

ordinary induction coils with nothing but plates of tin

foil outside the glass and no electrodes going through the

glass, though this     suppose, one of the earliest things
             is

                    . iIs,
                                                             I
known about the electric light in vacuum.

The most interesting thing to me in what have seen

in the   reaprroarntgemtehnet.impu. n.i--ty   of touching  one  electrode   in
Tesla's                                      Yours truly,

                                             WILLIAM THOMSON.

P.S.--Tesla's light in ordinary vacuum tubes, and in

tubes containing Crookes's pieces of Iceland Spar, toasted

shells, etc., will be time-integral of what we see (shadows
and all) with the current from an ordinary electric
machine, or from induction coils, with current alternately

in opposite directions, but long enough in each direction

to let us see the peculiar effect. The difference of the

                                             of course, integrated out
effects in the two directions                is,
                                                     ; 6,
in Tesla's light.
                                                               11
    You will see in Nature, Jan.                                        1,
without electrodes by Bottomley
                                                            Ia
                       J.                    88 vacuum tubes
                                             and second note

on the subject in Nature of Jan. 13, 88 1.                                  see Glaze-

brook    ("  G." in Nature of this week) seems to think

vacuum tubes without electrodes novelty.                                    Bottomley
                                             aa
                                                          a

                                                              it

                                                             J.
long ago in his lectures showed completely closed glass

vessel of vacuum glowing when he held                           in his hand

above the spark between two poles of Ruhmkorff.

                       GLASGOW UNIVERSITY, Feb. 13/92.
                              -- Have
     DEAR     LORD RAYLEIGH                  weIf(Rn.Sot.,)     never given
Crookes      anything except  F.R.S.                               think we
                                             ?
                                                     (?

                                                         a

                                                         I
ought to give him the best we can                          Copley). His

xxII IRISH AFFAIRS 911

torrent of particles, toasted shells, and Iceland spar con

verted to malachite and emeralds and rubies and topaz

(Iceland spar), and his radiometer and wheelbarrow, etc.

etc., are really  ntihneetegerenatthesct entthuirnyg.s--, bYyoufrasr,,  in  deep-going
physics of the

                      W. THOMSON.

    On January 28 Sir William Thomson presided
at a meeting of the West of Scotland Liberal
Unionist Association.

In his opening remarks the Chairman said the pros

pect of another struggle was now imminent. They

should enter upon that struggle not at all discouraged.

Twenty Rossendales could not discourage them. They

had that best of all foundations for courage, a good cause.

The course of the past six years had proved, every month,

every year, that they were right in 1886. He could not

believe so ill of his countrymen as to think that a majority

of them could now be found to send representatives to

Parliament pledged to whatever bill Mr. Gladstone might

bring in. It would be an awful grief to every person

who valued the prosperity of this country and the happi

ness of Ireland, and who distinguished between right and
wrong, should there be such a majority. It would be

intolerable for Ireland not to be fully represented in the

Imperial Parliament.  Let them give every possible

facility for the Irish people to manage their own local

affairs, but they must have Irish co-operation in the

Imperial Parliament. They had every confidence that

right would prevail over wrong in the long-run, and reason

over unreason.

    At a meeting of electors of the College Division
of Glasgow, to promote the candidature of Sir John

Stirling Maxwell, the Conservative candidate, on
February 4, Sir William Thomson, in moving a

vote of confidence, took occasion to defend the

policy of Mr. Balfour as Chief Secretary for Ireland.

912  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

    It was now known that what was wanted to cure the
ills of Ireland was good, honest, resolute, kindly govern
ment. He ventured to say that to-day Mr. Balfour was

the most popular man in Ireland. Notwithstanding the
torrents of opprobrious epithets hurled at him by some
Irishmen, Mr. Balfour had not turned one hair's-breadth

from that path that had put Ireland into a condition of

peace and prosperity.

    Sir William was in London on February 19 to

open the electrical engineering laboratory which

had been founded at King's College by Lady
Siemens in memory of her late husband. In
making the formal presentation on behalf of Lady

Siemens he said that he was probably the oldest

friend of Sir William Siemens amongst those

present ; and he referred to his achievements and to

those of his brother, Werner von Siemens, and of
their brother-in-law, Professor Lewis Gordon, in the

scientific application of telegraphy, and in the laying
of submarine cables. Electrical engineering had in
one respect an advantage over other branches of

engineering --it had begun on a thoroughly scien

tific foundation. Beginners in modern electrical

engineering thoroughly knew their science before
they began practical work. What had grown in

several thousand years in ordinary mechanical

engineering, had come into existence in the case

of electricity in as many days or weeks. Thus it
was that this creation of the nineteenth century
could hold its own with all the best mechanical
engineering in the world. The development of
the " dynamo " (the name given by Sir William

xxii THE NEW PEER 913

Siemens) was largely owing to the investigations
of the brothers Siemens.

    The same evening Sir William gave a discourse
on Motivity to the Peterhouse Science Club, of
which he had been elected president. A large
gathering of scientific and mathematical visitors

attended in the Combination Room of that ancient

house. The lecture consisted mainly of a historical

account of the theories of conservation and trans
formation of energy. " Motivity " was in effect
the operation of " available energy," as distinguished
from such portions of molecular energy (in the form
of heat) as cannot be employed in producing
mechanical work.

    On February 23 Sir William Thomson was
gazetted as Baron Kelvin l of Largs, in the county
of Ayr. He took his seat in the House of Lords

on February 25, being introduced, with the pre
scribed ceremonies, by Lord Rayleigh and Lord
Sandford. Those who have not witnessed the

introduction of a new peer can scarcely conjure

1 Lord Kelvin's change of designation was regretted by some who honoured
                                                                             M. Taine, the
the name of the man who had achieved so much.                                               "distinguished  I
                                                                           something very
litterateur, asked Mr. J. E. C. Bodley to explain                                           curious.

suppose it is still considered an honour to sit in your House of Peers ; but why,
as a penalty for doing so, should my friend Sir William Thomson, whose reputa

tion belongs to Europe and not to England alone, bury his illustrious identity
in an unknown title ? Even if he had followed the example of Tennyson and

Macaulay, and called himself Lord Thomson, that would not have been dis
                                                                            Th"oImseoxnp,laainnedd,h"e
tinctive enough ; he was celebrated as William                                                           ought to
                                                                           a peer, as it indeed         says Mr.
hBaovdeleyca, ll"edthahtimthsaetlfstLyloerdcouWldillinaomt    Thomson."
                                                            be applied to                               indicated

that the person   so addressed  belonged                     to a certain small  section  of commoners."
                                another                     peculiarity of the   British  constitution."
"Well," said     Taine, "it is

About the same time a foreign electrician of distinction wrote to the late

Professor Ayrton to ask him who this person Kelvin was, who was claiming

to have invented the galvanometer that all the world knows to have I.een

invented by Sir William Thomson.

914  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

up the scene when he and his supporters, clad in

their gorgeous robes, and preceded by the Gentle
man Usher of the Black Rod, the resplendent
Garter King of Arms carrying the patent, the Earl
Marshal, and the Lord Great Chamberlain, troop

into the House, bowing thrice ; and the new peer,
kneeling, presents his writ to the Lord Chancellor

and retires to the table, while the clerk reads the

patent and the writ. The Oath is then administered
to the new peer, and he signs the Test-roll, when
he and his supporters bow first to the Cloth of

Estate, a second time to the Bishops, and again to

the House as he crosses it to take his seat. Being

seated there between his supporters they must then

bow thrice to the Lord Chancellor, " taking off
their hats at each time of bowing " ; and when the
Lord Chancellor returns the salutation, the new

peer is conducted to the Woolsack to shake hands

with its occupant. One wonders what Lord Kelvin's

thoughts were during the performance.
    The following arms were assigned to the barony

of Kelvin of Largs :--

     KELVIN.     AKMS. -- Arg., a stag's head caboshed,
              gules, on a chief, azure, a thunderbolt
              ppr. , winged or, between two spur revels
              of the first. Crest-- A cubit arm erect,

              vested, az. , cuffed arg. , the hand grasping
              five ears of rye, ppr. Supporters -- On
              the dexter side a student of the University
              of Glasgow, habited, holding in his dexter
              hand a marine voltmeter, all ppr. : and
              on the sinister side a sailor, habited,

              holding in the dexter hand a coil, the rope
              passing through the sinister, and sus
              pended therefrom a sinker of a sounding
              machine, also all ppr. Motto -- Honesty
              without fear.

A dinner was given by the Glasgow University

                        PEERAGE                                    915

Club on the 19th of March to Lord Kelvin of Largs
in honour of his elevation to the peerage ; when,
under the chairmanship of Dr. Joseph Coats, they
drank his health and commemorated his forty-six
years of service to his University.

In his reply Lord Kelvin spoke of the fostering influences of

University life, and it was for more than mere instruction that he

must always thank the Universities of Glasgow and Cambridge.
In Glasgow there certainly was a very stimulating course. But

there were differences in quality and subject in different

universities. The thorough teaching of the University of Cam

bridge, following on the initiatory study in which he had engaged

in Glasgow, had been of the greatest possible value. He should

be sorry to think that Greek was killed out of Scotch University

studies by any preliminary examination. Universities ought not

merely to be a means of advancing towards a profession and

earning a livelihood.   dTohemy orseh--outlhdeylesahdouilnd  this direction no
doubt, but they should                                       give a possession

for life that rust could not corrode, nor moths eat, nor thieves

break through and steal. Referring to the Atlantic cable, he

remembered the services of his now venerable assistant Donald

MacFarlane, and those of members of his volunteer laboratory

corps in the old days, Professor Ferguson, and Messrs. Medley
and Deacon, who had helped to hook up the lost cable of 1865.

                              THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

                                                              March 22/92.

DEAR RAYLEIGH -- I am very glad to hear from

Dr. Traill of T.C.D. that there is a prospect of your

being at the Dublin Tercentenary, and his guest. My
wife and I are to be there and his guests in the College,

so we hope you will be with us. The time is from the

5th to the 8th of       ?J--ulyY.ou. rs. , .  Will  Lady     Rayleigh not
come too, to T.C.D.                                             KELVIN.

P.S.-- I have instructed Potter, Admiralty Chartseller,

to send you a copy of Weir's                  diagram,  that you   "mmayathseee
whether, as a most wonderful                  piece of  " applied

matics, it is not deserving of recognition by an award from

the Gunning Fund of the R.S. It is quite unique as a

graphic process for solving a problem of finding the value

91 6          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                               CHAP.

of a function of three independent variables (lat. of the
place, decl"' of the sun or star, hour-angle).

    In April Lord Kelvin was nominated a member
of the Joint Committee to consider private bills
proposing electric railway schemes for London.

On the 1 1 th of the month he gave an address on

Navigation to the Mercantile Marine Association
at Liverpool. Much of the lecture was technical,
but the introduction and conclusion are of more

than technical interest. He said :--

The remarks of the Mayor of Liverpool had revived his early

recollections of Liverpool. His mind went back to 1842, when

he visited the docks of Liverpool : his recollections of those days

twpraaendreiionngp--ritnoacipyIanoldulyinag--ofowffshikcoyesrtaaiiunl ghmthtaeshtssimer,vaicnined   yards. He had a com
                                                                                                   of one of the great firms

                                                                                                   his ignorance of seafaring

matters, to look with admiration on the tall, tapering masts of the

American ships then in Liverpool. There seemed to be some

thing of American pride in those skysail yards, whilst the English

ships in dock were contented with royals, never aspiring to the

greater elevation. Yet they survived their American competitors,

and practically ran them off the sea. There was something much

greater than  irosknyssaaiillinygarsdhsipnsocwa.rryinTgher3e00w0etreonsthorere-mmaosrete--d                       and
four-masted                                                                                                     twice

as much as any sailing ship of Liverpool could carry 50 years
ago. There had been an enormous advance in the carrying

business, owing to the prosperity of England ; and every part of

the world was represented in Liverpool now as it was then : but

England's share was relatively much greater now than then. It
      It

                                                                                                                 is,
however, no pleasure to us to think that our friends on the other

side of the Atlantic declined so greatly in the work of carriage by
sea. was not due to want of ability and seamanlike qualities, or

of appreciation of the management of ships at sea, or of the power
to build the best kind of ships for the sea, that the Americans

were so much off the sea, and confined their business to three-

masted schooners sailing up and down the American coast. It

was due to bad politics.     Liverpool had always                                                  beoefnLitboertahleismfro--nt
in sound politics in regard   to that great principle

ftrheiengtsra--def.reedPoemopleandseetmraedde,  to forget that free                                trade meant  two
                                                 both very good                                    things. He   had

zxii SPEECH AT LIVERPOOL 917

always thought that that kind of Liberalism which was represented
by free trade had been an honour to England, to Lancashire, and
to Liverpool. They might well be satisfied that Liverpool had
played so great a part in promoting its results. Great changes
had taken place since the period he had referred to. The greatest
carrying work of the world was now done by steamers, and
Liverpool was not behind the rest of the world.

    The bulk of the lecture was devoted to " lunars,"

Sumner's method of finding the position of a ship,

the use of the globes in education, Weir's diagram,

and the advantage of taking soundings.

Every navigation school, for young or old, should always have

a globe at hand, and the work should be done by reference to a
globe, to explain the meaning of spherical trigonometry, which,

without a globe to help, was as veritable a twisting and screwing

of the   brain,  as"   severe   a mental torture, as could          well be con
ceived.     The                 the Globes " annulled the             mystery of
" great               Use of
         circle           "                                          navigator in
                 sailing        and  was  truly  valuable  to  the
                             ;

helping him to judge as to permissible, or eligible, or necessary
deviations from the great circle. With respect to dead-reckoning

and trusting to it for the safety of the ships, he must say that it

was literally true that more ships had been lost by bad logic than
by bad logs ; and that had largely been promoted by Board of
Trade findings in Courts of Inquiry. . . . Now that ships need

not stop to take soundings, when they got within the loo-fathom

line they should use the lead, and keep sounding every ten

Ifminutes or every five minutes, according to judgment, from hour
to hour.         this had been done in some recent cases disasters

would have been avoided.

    About this time, the Board of Trade, in draught

ing electric -lighting orders, proposed to adopt the
term " kelvin " as the name of the unit of supply, in
place of the term " kilowatt-hour." Sir Courtenay
Boyle communicated the proposal to Lord Kelvin ;
but he put from him the suggestion in favour of
the term " supply - unit," giving, amongst other

reasons against the proposal, the ambiguity that

9i 8  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

might arise if a supply-meter were described as a
" kelvin-meter."

     On the 8th of May 1892 Professor James
Thomson died.1 He had held the chair of En

gineering at Glasgow from 1873 to 1889, when,
owing to failing eyesight, he retired. He had been
active in science up to the last : his Bakerian
lecture on " The Grand Currents of Atmospheric
Circulation" having been read (by Lord Kelvin for
him) at the Royal Society on March 10, 1892.
Lord Kelvin, writing on May 12 to their brother
Robert in Australia to tell him of the events, said :

"James had been very well, and since last March

feeling very happy that he had finished and com

municated to the Royal Society a great work of

years on the trade winds and other great motions

of the atmosphere. He was still occupied with a
continuation of work of this kind, in which he took

great and never-failing interest, when he died."
Lord Kelvin's sorrow was very real and very deep.
Throughout their lives the two brothers had been

associated together not only in much scientific work,

but in closest personal association ; not a tinge of
jealousy ever clouded their more than brotherly
affection. In thermodynamics particularly their
work was so closely related that it was not always
easy to distinguish the parts due to each. Though
Lord Kelvin was himself scrupulously careful to

     1 An appreciative memoir of Professor James Thomson, by his nephew
Dr. James T. Bottomley, will be found in the Proceedings of the Glasgow
(Koyat) Philosophical Society, 1892-3, vol. xxiv. pp. 220-236.

xx11 DEATH OF HIS BROTHER 919

mention his brother's name in any matter that

originated with him, his own fame is apt to over

shadow the important contributions made by the

elder brother. It has been quaintly said that William

would not have been William without James, and

that James would not have been James without
William.

Lord Kelvin, who had hurried to Glasgow to the

bedside of his dying brother, was due to attend Parlia

mentary and scientific committees later in the week,

but wrote to Lord Rayleigh (then Secretary of the

Royal Society) that he must put off the reading of

a paper on electrostatic capacities till June.                                                                                        He

added :--

     I would like before the end of the session to com

municate, from my brother, an explanation of the beams
of light seen when looking with partially closed eyes at a
lamp flame, unless we find that the explanation has been
already given. They are usually, but as my brother
showed me wrongly, attributed to some effect of the
eyelashes. He explains them by the [capillary] curvature
of liquid between the eyelids and the cornea. They are
seen indifferently in virtue of lower or upper eyelid. Do
you know anything ] of this, or whether the subject has

been treated by any one ?

    1 [I cannot forbear adding here a note of an incident illustrative of Lord
Kelvin's personality, though it concerns myself. At the Conversazione of the

Royal Society of June 15, 1892, Lord and Lady Kelvin were receiving their
guests at the head of the staircase, and it came to the turn of Mrs. Silvanus
Thompson and myself to be received. Lord Kelvin literally seized me, and

I "ahwuarryi,ed"lyLosaoikd  to me, pointing to an electric glow-lamp hanging a                                                   few  yards
                            at that lamp : now half shut your eyes : tell me what                                                you  see."
       I see irregular luminous streaks extending in somewhat oblique
said,
Ibundles above and below." "What are they due to?" he asked. "Oh,
have always supposed them to be due to the film of moisture at the edge of
                            a?ir"rgeeghnuetllaerasvkoceiydcelinedbxrceiichteaindldlyl.eunss.B"sauitd,"jWu"sthWotihlleitanomlda,
the eyelids, acting as an                                                                                                        you that?
Where did you find that                                                                                                           hand was
                                                                                                                                  there are
laid on his sleeve, and

920  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                           CHAP.

    I shall come on Wedy night if possible : but my

sister-in-law and two nieces are both very ill and I do
not know if I shall feel able to leave.

Alas, the sorrow was increased by the death of

James Thomson's widow and of one daughter,
within a week of his own death.

    On May 28, introducing the Duke of Devon
shire at a Unionist meeting in Glasgow, Lord
Kelvin told the audience that personally he spoke for
the same reasons as those which, in 1886, impelled

him to enter upon political subjects that were very
far indeed from his ordinary and natural avocations.

    As an Irishman he felt then, as an Irishman he felt now, that
a frightful damage was threatened against his native land :-- to

take away Ireland from  Eitms pgirrea,n--d ptoosmitiaokne  as   a   constituent equal
member of the British                                       it  a  naval and military

station of the neighbouring island of England and Scotland.

. . . He had many friends whom he admired and for whom

he had the most sincere respect, whom he regretted to have

unhappily followed Mr. Gladstone in that crazy departure from

good political principles. . . . He was Irishman enough to like

the Irish Parliamentary party ; to admire their mode of procedure

people waiting." Later in the evening he resumed the subject, telling me
how his brother, while lying in bed ill, had studied these apparent rays and
given him this explanation ; and he asked me whether I had written anything
                      It was not till months afterwards that I found the
upon the phenomenon.

tfhoell"oeNwnoidntgeofnbtoyhteetheppraiPpnreteersdidoefinnht,itshedoePfcrdoeacateeseeJdduinnbgersoth1oe6f.r,--thewIhRihocayhdahl eaSsokhceaidedtycm,oavmonmly. ulnfiriii.ceanptd.esd74w,:--ealtl
acquainted with optical subjects whether they knew of this explanation of

the luminous beams, and all said ' no ' until yesterday evening at the soiree

of the Royal Society, when Professor Silvanus Thompson immediately

answered by giving the explanation himself, and telling me that he had
given it to his pupils in his lectures on optics, as an illustration of a concave
cylindrical lens. He did not know of the explanation ever having been

published otherwise than in his lectures. I have myself looked in many

standard books on optics, and could find no trace of intelligence on the

subject. It seems quite probable, therefore, that of all the millions of

millions of men that have seen the phenomenon, none within our three

thousand years of scientific history had ever thought of the true explanation

except Professor Silvanus Thompson and my brother."]

xxn LETTERS TO VON HELMHOLTZ 921

in some respects ; to consider that according to their lights they
were doing quite right. He thought their lights were false, and

he thought they were doing wrong. A bill which took the Irish
members out of Westminster and sent them to Dublin would be
an unmixed evil to the British Constitution, an unmixed evil to

Ireland.

    The summer was a busy one ; for besides holding

the Presidency of the Royal Society, and attending

meetings of the Scottish University Commission,
Lord Kelvin accepted the Presidency of the Institute
of Marine Engineers, and on June 7 paid a visit to
its premises in the Romford Road. He was also

advising the Board of Trade as to Electrical

Standards.

    He wrote to von Helmholtz :--

                                               June 20, 1892,
                                     6 CADOGAN PLACE, LONDON, S.W.

DEAR VON HELMHOLTZ--Your letter of the ipth of

May has remained too long unanswered : because I

wished to have authority from the Board of Trade in

answering it It had been resolved to issue at the

middle of the present month an Order denning, for

practical purposes, standards of electrical resistance,
current, and " pressure " (potential). I am now authorised

by the Board of Trade to say that in deference to your

wish, the proposed Order will not be issued until next

November.

The advising Committee of the Board of Trade in

respect to Electric Standards (of which Rayleigh, Glaze-
brook, Carey Foster, Ayrton, and myself are members)
were unanimous in wishing that you, and one or more of

your colleagues in the work of electric measurement,

would come to the British Association, which meets in

Edinburgh on the 3rd of August, and thus give us the
opportunity of conferring on the standards to be adopted,

and of coming to an agreement on all questions such as

those referred to in your letter of May 1 9th.  Z

  VOL. II

922           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                  CHAP.

     I was asked by my colleagues to do what I could to

persuade you to come yourself. You know I would

compel you to come if I could ! I hope the time will

be convenient to you (more so than the later times of

meeting which for many years back have been chosen

for the B.A. meeting), and I wish very much that you

would consider whether a trip to Scotland in August

would not for one year at all events be as health-giving

as Pontresina or elsewhere in the Alps.

    It will be a great pleasure to Lady Kelvin and myself
if you and Mrs. von Helmholtz will come to Scotland

and give us as long a visit at Netherhall as your time

before or after the meeting in Edinburgh, or both before

and after, will allow.

     With our united kind regards to you and your wife,

and to (the now matronly) Ellen, I remain, yours always
                                                         KELVIN.
truly,    --  For  nearly  a  year  I  have  been
                                                   greatly exercised
    P.S.
over the equation --

where TT is such that IT(X+C) = TT(Z) ; which occurs in
connection with the question of the Stability of Periodic
Motion. I have spent more time than I would like to
confess on the case TT(T) = a + /3 cos (*) ; and at last,
within the last few days, I see my way to answer all
those questions regarding it which I had felt difficult.

     The results are (to me) wonderful and exceedingly

interesting. I hope soon to send you a rough proof in

print. I believe we shall find that all periodic motion is
essentially unstable.

    Various honours fell to Lord Kelvin about this
time. On the occasion of the Galileo Tercentenary
the University of Padua gave him the Doctorate of
 Natural Philosophy. He was also nominated by the
 Berlin Academy to receive the first Helmholtz Medal.

xxII  THE HELMHOLTZ MEDAL                         923

      He wrote again to von Helmholtz :--

      MY DEAR                    6 CADOGAN  July 12/92,

               HELMHOLTZ --We               PLACE, LONDON, S.W.
                                            are delighted that you

and Mrs. von Helmholtz will come to the British

Association, and Netherhall.       I have written to Tait

telling him that you are coming, and asking him to

arrange about your being received in Edinburgh.

     I am very much pleased to be one of the first four
Helmholtz medallists ! I have written to the " Akademie "

expressing my thanks, but I feel that I must also thank

you for having thought me worthy of so great and so

especially interesting an honour.
                        to do what I can to assist with
    I shall be glad
                        in proposing to the " Akademie "
the other Medallists

candidates for new elections.

      My wife joins me in kind regards to you and Mrs.

von Helmholtz, and I remain, yours always truly,

                                                                      KELVIN.

      P.S. --We leave London this week, and hope to be in

Netherhall soon after.

    In July came the Tercentenary Celebration of
Dublin University, the brilliant fetes of which were
attended by Lord and Lady Kelvin, who were
afterwards entertained at Birr Castle by the Earl of

Rosse.

    On the last day of July Lord Kelvin unveiled at
Stirling the memorial bust of Murdoch, the inventor
of gas-lighting, and gave an address on the work of
that pioneer of road-engines.

    August 4 brought the meeting of the British
Association at Edinburgh under the presidency of
Sir Archibald Geikie, whose Inaugural Address

reverted to Hutton's Theory of the Age of the

924  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN              CHAP.

Earth --a topic which had claimed Lord Kelvin's

attention (p. 605) when the Association met in
Edinburgh in 1871. Sir Archibald now admitted

that the age-long loss of heat which demonstrably

takes place from both earth and sun, makes it quite

certain that the present could not have been the

original condition of the system. This steady

diminution of temperature was no speculation, but

fact. It pointed with unmistakable directness to

that beginning of things of which Hutton and his

Uniformitarian followers could find no sign.
    Lord Kelvin, in proposing a vote of thanks,

referred to a conversation he had had with a dis

tinguished geologist, after a former lecture of Sir

Archibald's, when the geologist demanded for the

age of the earth not one hundred million, or one

thousand million, nor even a million million years,

but would admit absolutely no limit.  Then he

continued :--

     I have listened with very " great interest to the con

clusions that we have heard this evening, and to the

developments within these last thirty years, according to
which geologists find it possible to hurry up the action
without abandoning any fundamental principle of the

Huttonian theory, except the perpetual motion and the
want of a beginning ; how it is possible to understand a
little more the evolution of what we see around from

preceding states ; and how geologists are now struggling
intelligently, and not denuding anything from any part of

science. I am sure we all feel that geology has made

great progress, dating from the Huttonian period of a

hundred years ago, and that it has not been stagnant but
has had its evolution, and has made great progress within
the last thirty years.

GEOLOGICAL ECHOES  925

    This meeting was notable for the presence of

von Helmholtz and other foreign electricians who

came to thrash out the disputed details about

electrical standards, and who also participated in the

proceedings of the Sections. Lord Kelvin himself

read three papers : on the stability of periodic

motions, on the graphic solution of dynamical

problems, and on the reduction of degrees of

freedom to the problem of drawing geodetic lines.
The proposition to found a National Physical

Laboratory was also discussed.

   A week later Lord Kelvin wrote to Lord

Rayleigh : --

                                                                   NETHERHALL, LARGS,
                                                                           Aug. 23/92.

    DEAR RAYLEIGH -- I have been very hard on geodetics

and dynamics, and just this morning got to the end of
this particular affair most satisfactorily.

     I am getting near the end of all I can do for
" instability," too. It has a bewildering variety of illustra
tive cases. One of the clearest of all is the consequences
of Mr. Gladstone's Home Rule Bill becoming law. His

majority would be immediately reduced from + 40 to -- 40.

The act would be repealed, and so on for ever, if " e " is

real. If " e " is imaginary, one or two dissolutions would

send Mr. Gladstone off to infinity.
     We had a splendid time in Edinburgh. Helmholtz

(including Lindeck and Kahle) was most satisfactory as
to units, and he and Michelson (and Glazebrook, who in
about 20 words made M's. splendid investigation clear to
those who, before he (G.) spoke, had not an idea what it
was) and Smithells, by the condemnation of his "oxygen
theory " which he elicited from Stokes and Helmholtz
and Schuster, etc., etc., made the meeting about the best

I have ever known in point of instructiveness. But I

926     LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                  CHAP.

must say no more of it ; it would make you so unhappy

not to have been in it.

    Their Excellencies were very good here also. He has

well matured, and sound views regarding Mr. Gladstone

and his doings. We got a great deal out of him, all

round.
    I wish I had
to                 telegraphed    to you    urging you   to   come
    Edinburgh.                    would   have drawn ?       Yours
                  I wonder if it                        --

truly,                                    KELVIN.

    The autumn was mostly spent at Netherhall

with a constant succession of visitors to enjoy the

hospitalities so lavishly offered within its walls.

An intimate account of a visit by a grand-daughter

of Mrs. King, Miss Margaret E. Gladstone (now
Mrs. Ramsay MacDonald), affords a number of

details which help to make up the picture of the
life in Lord Kelvin's country home, as seen through

the eyes of a naive young girl. The extracts kindly

supplied begin with a reference to the British

Association meeting of August.

    At Lord M'Laren's I was taken down to dinner by Copeland,

the Scotch Astronomer - Royal, a pleasant old gentleman, who
talked about astronomy, etc. He told me, without knowing that

I was related [to Lord Kelvin], that he had been dining there a

few nights before, and when the Madeira wine was served, its
flavour had reminded him of a visit to Madeira just about the
time of Uncle William's marriage. This made him look up, and
he caught Uncle William and Aunt Fanny raising their glasses to
their lips and looking at each other from opposite ends of the
table. He said he thought it such a pretty incident, just like one
of Hans Andersen's fairy tales.

    In one of Uncle William's papers "On the Stability of
Periodic Motion," it was very lovely to see him trying to balance
the long pointer on the tip of his finger.

     Helmholtz and Uncle William were inseparable, and both
spoke a good deal in the sections, and Tait sat and smiled

serenely at everything.

xxii REMINISCENCES OF NETHERHALL 927

  ...At Netherhall      (about    September-October), I had a very nice
                       was so     long at Netherhall, I got to know them
time.         As I
much better, and to be very devoted to them ; at least I don't
like Uncle William when he is haranguing upon politics, as if

there were no sense and no goodness on the Gladstonian side,

and I should dislike it still more if I were on his side myself :
but I admire his earnestness, and it is really that which carries

him away.

    Generally the house was full of company : 24 different

people stayed in it while I was there, and endless others came

to dinner and tea and lunch. Aunt Fanny likes company very

much ; and as for Uncle William it doesn't seem to make much

difference to him what happens : he works away at mathematics

just the same, and in the intervals holds animated conversation

with whomever is near. They were both very good to me ; and

the time I liked best of all was one day when there were no

visitors at all, and we were quite by ourselves for about thirty

hours.

Uncle William was busy with some great mathematical

question ; and a side-issue connected therewith was the making

of Mercator charts of objects of various shapes. An anchor-ring

(shape of a curtain-ring) can be made into a single oblong sheet

by being cut round the circumference and also at right angles.

But to mercatorize, or skin, a double anchor-ring, or treble, or

multiple, was more complicated, and for several days we all

were employed on that problem. It was very amusing : Uncle

William was            "alwMaayrsgarberte, akI'ivneg  out in the middle                        of meals, or
driving, etc.,                                        thought of a better                      way to skin

Ithe double anchor-ring," and then describing it. We had no

double anchor-ring, so suggested getting one made in dough ;
and I believe they had great fun in getting the cook to make a
                                  ; but I was out on a steamboat excur
Williamloaf like this  ^^^^^.     time. When I got home I found Uncle
                       \^""-*~^)
sion at the                       wanted to cover this all in one piece
somehow ; so I got my paint-box, and we painted the loaf Prus

sian blue, leaving white lines where it must be cut. That blue loaf

was Uncle William's constant companion for some days ; and

Aunt Fanny said, a fortnight ago, that it was still knocking about

the drawing-room at Netherhall. Some of my suggestions were

squashed at once       because they                   didn't fit the high mathematics of
the subject ; the      mathematics                    went on vigorously in the " green

book."  oWfiTll"ihagamret,e"n--grewbeohnoickhbso"ho--ek"ruesiaselslya   great institution.  5    There is a
                                                                        notebooks made         specially for
series                                                                 up at the rate of       or 6 a year

Uncle

and which are his inseparable companions. They generally go

928          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                     CHAP.

upstairs, downstairs,  out of doors,   and indoors,  wherever he
goes ; and he writes   in his " green  book " under  any circum

stances. Looking through them it is quite amusing ; one entry

will be in the train, another in the garden, a third in bed before

he gets up ; and so they go on, at all hours of the day or night.
He always puts the place, and the exact minute of beginning

an entry.

     Another thing on Uncle William's mind during my visit,
especially at the beginning, was his stop-cock patent. He worked
at a stop-cock whenever he was within a few hundred yards

of one. It was strange ; for when I was staying there eight

years ago, he and Uncle James were always running about the
house with taps in their hands and discussing them. It gives
one rather a common-sense way, or scientific way, of looking at
things to stay with Uncle William : you begin to feel that every
thing has a reason, and that that reason may be found out ; and
things should not be slurred over, or left to chance, when you can
direct them by taking a little trouble, and using a little thought.

    In September and October Lord Kelvin had
two letters in Nature on the problems of " Merca-

torizing." He wrote to Lord Rayleigh on this,
saying that both Jellett and Maxwell were " wildly
adrift " as to lines of flexure. He and Lady Kelvin
were to pay a visit to Inveraray, " where I expect

to find the Duke full of fight, which will be very

agreeable and interesting."

Tennyson died on October 6, 1892. At his

funeral on October 1 2, in Westminster Abbey,

Lord Kelvin was one of the twelve pall-bearers,

along with Lord Salisbury, Lord Dufferin, the

Duke of Argyll, Lord Rosebery, and the Master

of Trinity.            NETHERHALL, LARGS,

     DEAR                                                AYRSHIRE, Oct. 16/92.
Oct. 27,
           RAYLEIGH -- The appointment 10.30 A.M.

           for Board of Trade Committee on Electric

xxn REMINISCENCES OF NETHERHALL 929

Measurement, holds. Cardew writes me that he will have

a reminding circular sent.

     The anti-mercatorizing (the reduction to drawing
geodetic lines) of the problem of a pair of masses con

nected by a spring, moving in the line joining them,
between two soft planes, is curious. It may possibly

help towards the question of distribution of kinetic energy
between that of their c. of g., and of their relative motion.

     We were greatly delighted with the victory by 3 of
yesterday. What do you think of Mr. Morley's beginning?

The dullest of apprehension are beginning to learn, but

the most shocking part of the thing is that such object

lessons are required to teach them. What does Mr.

Gladstone deserve? The 22 cows with tails cut off, the

murder, and the effects of the assault on Inspector Lily

are a first instalment of the grand sacrifice to his vanity,

entailed by the resolution of electors to give the old man

another chance.

I hope Mr. Balfour is getting a good rest, and getting

it fast, because it seems less likely to be long than it did
6 weeks ago. --Yours,
                            ·  KELVIN.

     November 30 brought round the annual meeting
of the Royal Society. In his address the President

spoke of magnetic storms, terrestrial magnetism,

and the elastic yielding of the earth. A week later

he read a paper on the velocity of the cathode

stream as observed in highly -exhausted vacuum-
tubes, and followed this by a letter to Sir William

(then Mr.) Crookes :--
                                                                                         Dec. 19, 1892.
    DEAR CROOKES -- I am exceedingly obliged to you

for the copy of your paper which you sent me. I have
been studying it in the large volume of Transactions, but

it is much more convenient and really more useful to have

the separate copy.
     Have you any measurement of the pressure on the

930  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                            CHAP.

metal disc produced by the cathode stream ? I have

great difficulty in seeing how the force of the magnet can

suffice to produce the curvature of the trajectories which

you have found.

Have you ever found that the curvatures are less

where the stream leaves the negative electrode, and

greater at the greater distances ? as might be the case

if the stream experiences resistance such as you suggest.

I suppose quite a moderate magnetic force suffices to pro

duce a sensible deflection. My difficulty is to find that

any conceivable amount of transverse force exercised by

the magnet upon the observed portion of the cathode

stream can be large enough to produce the observed

curvature, in a stream of which the momentum suffices to

produce such pressure      as is  impproindguec.e--d oYnouarsvavneeryortruotlyh,er
fixed surface on which     they

                                                    KELVIN.

    Prescot, near Liverpool, had recently witnessed
a revival of the watchmaking industry, by the
establishment of the factory of the Lancashire Watch
Company. Here, on January 12, 1893, at a dinner
celebrating the extension of the works, Lord Kelvin
proposed the toast of success to the undertaking.

     Personally, he said, there was nothing in the whole of
mechanism in which he took more interest than a watch. He

was quite sure the Lancashire Watch factory was going to

demonstrate that good Englishmen and good English work

wanted no protective duties to keep them to the very front, and

to make them successful in the way of finding customers who

would pay for the  work and take  pleasure in  its    possession,    not
only in England,    but all over  the world :       Overcome       your
                                                "

enemies with well doing."

     He had been all his life engaged more or less in scientific
experiments on measurement and on instruments of precision.
They were thankful if in electrical instruments of precision they

could attain an accuracy of -J^ or ·£$ per cent ; but what did
watchmaking do ? The commonest, cheap, good watch from the

Prescot works would keep time to a minute a week, which was

something like y^-j- per cent of accuracy.

xxu REMINISCENCES OF NETHERHALL 931

get  He need scarcely say  tothtahtostehepyre"semntustthahtavneo  workmen could
     good wages by saying                                         them," irrespec
tive of whether they produced good work and plenty of it Good

wages for all, and the best wages for the best, was a fair and good

law; and all the trades unions in the world, and all the legislation

by Parliament, would never undo that law of nature.

     At the end of January 1893 a slight attack of

pleurisy following a chill caught at a concert, kept

Lord Kelvin in bed for several days, and prevented

attendance at the opening of Parliament.                          He

occupied his enforced leisure by working at hydro
dynamics, " making hay while the sun shines," as
he wrote, but adding, " I hope this kind of hay

making will only last a day or two more."
    In March occurred the trial of the notorious

swindle of the Harness Electric Belts. Lord Kelvin,

at considerable personal trouble and expense, came

forward to give evidence on the worthlessness of

the much-advertised article.

   At the Royal Academy banquet on April 29

he responded to the toast of Science, which, he said,

some people considered austere, but which was full

of wonders. Science was not an entgotterte Natur,

a God-forsaken nature, a soulless nature, with only

force and light, chemicals and crystals. Science

brought us to the threshold of life, and knew its

own incapacity to subject life to the laws of force

and electricity. A natural scene without any life in

it would lack interest ; life would give it interest,

dignity, and beauty.
    He was busy all that spring with molecular

physics and problems involving the principle of

932  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

least action. His Royal Institution discourse on
" Isoperimetrical Problems," and the Robert Boyle
Lecture in May at Oxford on the " Molecular
Tactics of a Crystal," are reported elsewhere (see
pp. 1053, 1054). His crystal models were shown at
the soirdes of the Royal Society.

    In June he took part in the Jubilee dinner of the
Cambridge University Musical Society, of which
(p. 69) he had been one of the founders ; and was
present at the Jubilee Concert where Max Bruch,
Tchaikowsky, Saint- Saens, Boito, and Professor
(now Sir Charles) Villiers Stanford took part in

rendering or conducting their own works.

     Many banquets and reunions were attended this

season, including a Ministerial banquet at Downing
Street. July over, they went down to Netherhall
to rest till the Home Rule Bill should come up to

the House of Lords. A trip to Aix-les-Bains for

Lady Kelvin's health was arranged for the autumn

-- " though Lord Kelvin hates it ! " as she wrote to
Darwin ; adding, " Lord Kelvin is busy with the

molecular tactics of cleavage planes and faces of a
crystal, and he wishes you were here to help." But

the August holiday was saddened by the sudden
death of Lord Kelvin's brother-in-law, Alexander

Crum.

    With September came the debates in the House

of Lords on the Home Rule Bill. While Viscount
Castletown, a Liberal Unionist, was speaking
against the Bill, the House was startled by a most
unusual sound. Lord Kelvin, sitting immediately

    SPEECHES AND THEORIES                     933

below Lord Castletown, was so carried away by his
approval of the speech that, forgetting that the
orthodox method of approval consists in shouting
" Hear, hear," he vigorously clapped his hands, and

almost petrified other peers who sat near him by
the unaccustomed demonstration. The Bill was

defeated on the second reading, but Lord Kelvin
had left for Aix-les- Bains.

    In October Lord and Lady Kelvin were in
Paris, where he read to the Academy of Science
a paper on piezo- electricity, returning early that

he might open the Blackpool electric lighting
station on October 14, He was going to Cam
bridge for the statutory Fellows' meeting at Peter-

house, and wrote beforehand to Professor Ewing :--

                                              LONDON, Oct. 27/93.

    Do you still have magnetic molecules in large numbers,

ready placed on points and stands, or easily so placed,

just to show to any one looking direct without lantern

what they do ? I want to help myself about crystals by
looking at them. If without too much trouble you could

let me see them some time between 9.30 to-night and
    monucMhoonbdlaigye, dw. --heYnoIurhsa,ve  my College meeting, I shall
12                                                                    KELVIN.

be

    On October 28 he visited the Leys School, for
the opening of the new science laboratory, when he
delighted the boys by advocating the free use of

translations in learning classics, so as to get more
time for science. There were more political meet
ings and speeches in November, and then came

the Royal Society anniversary. The Presidential
Address on the researches of Hertz and of Crookes

934       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

is considered elsewhere (p. 1058 infra). It fell to the
President also to present the Copley medal to Sir
George Stokes. He accompanied the presentation

by a brief but masterly summary of Stokes's achieve

ments in physics, dwelling particularly on his

accurate measuring work, his codification of the
optical laws divined by Huygens and Fresnel, and

his clue to the dynamics of the undulatory theory of

light.

    On December 8 Lord Kelvin unveiled the fine

statue of Joule in the Town Hall of Manchester,
and delivered the striking address on Joule's work
which is reprinted in Popular Lectures, vol.

558. (See also Nature, vol. xlix. p. 164.)
    Writing few days later to Lord Rayleigh, to
          a

                                                                           ;

                                                                      ii.
                                                                                  p.
arrange for the reading in January of a paper on
the Homogeneous Division of Space, Lord Kelvin

briefly narrated how, since the defeat of the Home
Rule Bill, he had been to Aix, was busy with three

patents and with crystal models and he concluded

with Christmas greetings. Lord Derby, with whom

so many Christmas holidays had been spent, had

died in April. Henceforth Christmas days were

passed at Netherhall.
    Many were the speeches made by Lord Kelvin

in the year 1894. In January he presented the
prizes at the Blackburn Technical School, and spoke
on the aims of education and the right attitude

to take toward foreign competition in skilled in

dustries;       foreigners do well, let Englishmen do
             :

            if
better but to prevent the people of this country

xxn  SPEECHES AND THEORIES                935

from exercising their good judgment in buying in

the best and cheapest market would be grossly

unfair. In February he made two speeches to

Unionist associations, and on the 23rd of that month
presided at a dinner at Birmingham to celebrate

Founder's Day of the Mason College. He urged

strongly that a case had been made out for a Mid

land University or a University of Birmingham.
" Birmingham should take the lesson of James
Watt 1 to heart, and remember that a University

would not only be a crown of glory to the city, but

would be of continual practical benefit to the work

shops of the mechanics." In March he spoke at

the Civil Engineers. In April he opened Coat-

bridge electric light works ; spoke at two Unionist

meetings, at the Mechanical Engineers, and at the

Institute of Journalists. In May he opened the new

Engineering Laboratory at Cambridge organized

by Professor Ewing ; spoke at the Institute of

Chemistry on scientific cataloguing and indexing ;

and at the Royal Society on the electrification of

air. He had been busy, too, on the theories of the

shrinkage of the globe as it cools, and wrote several

letters to George Darwin on the subject.  One of

these, on March 29, ends thus :--

    I have had a very broken time with various engage

ments, and finishing up our Glasgow Session, and an
Oxford lecture (of last May) on Tactics of Crystals, for

    1 James Watt, in 1756, was not permitted by the trade combinations of
Glasgow to set up a workshop in that city, but found a place in Glasgow
College, in the post of mechanician to the University, which still possesses
some of his models. Later he joined in Birmingham the firm of Boulton
and Watt.

936  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                            CHAP.

which I am now in the painful position of meeting a bill

overdue, under threats from successive secretaries of the

Oxford Junior Scientific Club.

   He was still working at crystals, and at the Royal

Society's soiree in June had a fresh exhibit of models
to illustrate the properties of quartz.

   He took little part that session in the work of

the House of Lords, but paired in favour of the

Bill for Legalizing Marriage with a Deceased Wife's

Sister, and against the Tenants' Arbitration Bill.

    In June the Ampere gold medal was awarded1
to Lord Kelvin by the Societe d'Encouragement.

This medal is awarded to the Frenchman or

foreigner whose labours have had the greatest in

fluence, during the six preceding years, on the

progress of French industry.
    Von Helmholtz, who, in the previous autumn,

had had a severe fall, became seriously                   ill     in the

summer of 1894, and Lord Kelvin wrote: --                        a

                                             34 HANS PLACE, LONDON, S.W.,

                                                     July 6/94.

   MY DEAR MRS. HELMHOLTZ --We are much dis

tressed to see in to-day's papers that your husband, my

old friend, has been taken ill.       I  hope very much that

the illness not so severe as may have been apprehended.

It will be very kind you will write and tell me of him.
     is

                  if

     You must give him my most affectionate messages
and warm sympathy. We shall be very anxious to hear

what you can tell us.

1    The terms of the award refer to the Atlantic cable work and to his

"Heunion of practical engineering with mathematical power.        has been

the educator of our time. He has renewed theories, transformed scientific

methods, opened out unforeseen paths, provoked the adoption of logical
system of units and measures, and contributed in an incalculable sense to the

progress of industrial electricity."

xxn      SPEECHES AND THEORIES                    937

     Lady Kelvin sends her love, and I remain, dear Mrs.

Helmholtz, yours most truly,        KELVIN.
     P.S. -- It happens that at this moment I am engaged

with a problem that he started 47 years ago, the oscil
latory discharge of a Leyden jar.

    The British Association meeting of August 1894,
at Oxford, was made notable by two events : the

announcement of the discovery of argon by Lord

Rayleigh and his coadjutor Professor (now Sir
William) Ramsay, and the sending of wireless
signals between the Clarendon laboratory and the

Museum by Professor (now Sir Oliver) Lodge by
means of Hertzian waves received by coherer and

tapper. Lord Kelvin read a paper on hydrodynamics,

and two others on electrical experiments made in

his laboratory. There was a discussion also on

Maxim's flying machine, which Lord Kelvin (who
had himself in July had the opportunity of taking a
"flight " in described as a "kind of child's per
         it)

                a
ambulator with sunshade magnified eight times."

He did not believe in the aeroplane, and thought

the problem of flight might be better solved with
                                               2
platform having vertically working propeller at              a
         a:
                   a

                               it
each corner an aeroplane was like an eagle which

had to take run before could rise.

    After leaving Oxford, Lord and Lady Kelvin
went abroad. Lady Kelvin stayed at Aix, while

Lord Kelvin took cruise on the s.s. Electra, in
                   a

the Mediterranean, visiting Syra, Constantinople,

Sevastopol, Odessa, Athens, Corinth, and Genoa,
back to Aix--returning to Netherhall in the middle
VOL. II
                                               A

938      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                              CHAP.

of September to spend the autumn in quiet enjoy

ment of his home.

    With the death of von Helmholtz, on September
8th, 1894, Lord Kelvin lost one of his oldest and

most-cherished friends.

                                                              PARIS, Oct. 11, 1894.

MY DEAR MRS. VON HELMHOLTZ --The sad news

came to us here yesterday evening, and we sent a tele

gram to tell you of our sympathy with you in this great

grief. Your letter to Lady Kelvin, which she forwarded

to me while I was still away on my cruise, made me very
anxious, but I still hoped to hear of recovery and to be

able to look forward to other happy meetings with my

friend. But it was not to be.

    I am full of recollections of happy meetings in the

past, of which the first was when he came to see me at

Creuznach in 1856, and all of which were to me un

alloyed pleasure. The loss to myself is so severe that I

cannot speak of and feel that must not intrude on
         it,

                  I
                                  I

                                   I
                                                  I
your own most sacred sorrow. But feel that must

write this now on our way home to Largs, to tell you

of my    heartfelt grief,   and to express          for  --mByeliwevifee  her
          and warmest      sympathy with          you.                    me,
deepest

dear Mrs. von Helmholtz, ever your affectionate friend,

                                                         KELVIN.

                                 NETHERHALL, LARGS, AYRSHIRE,

DEAR MRS. HELMHOLTZ --                Oct. 12/94.

                                 have been most deeply
                    it
                                        I

                                               I
touched by your kind letter which received fortnight
                                                         aI a
ago, with all that    tells me of my friend who                           gone
                                                                   is
from us, and of his feeling for me. To know from you

that the sympathy and loving friendship which grew in

me from my admiration of his work before                 had seen

him, in those early times in Creuznach, and Bonn, and

Arran, when we were together, has been so perfectly

reciprocated by him,             to me not only          pride and
         a
                             is
honour, but happy possession.

xxn        DEATH OF VON HELMHOLTZ              939

     When the grief is so fresh I feel that it is almost

cruel to speak of happiness. But even the grief, never

to be lost, is brightened, not diminished, by the recollec

tions of his life, and the knowledge of how beautifully

and perfectly it worked for good and happiness. And

believe me, it will be for all your life a happiness to

know how his time in this world has been spent, and how

much his memory is valued in his own country, and by

all the scientific people of the whole world.

     We shall be much interested to hear what you resolve

about a house. If one can be found near Ellen I am

sure you will like to be near her and your grandchildren.

We shall be much pleased to have one of the reproduc
tions from Lembach's portrait if you find that you can

have it done satisfactorily.

    Lady Kelvin sends her kindest love, and I remain,

yours always affectionately,                   KELVIN.

    To Lord Kelvin, as President of the Royal

Society, fell the duty, at the annual meeting on

November 30, 1894, of recording the deaths of
several celebrated Fellows, including Tyndall and
Helmholtz. Of both he spoke with sympathy none
the less sincere because brief. Then he turned

to enumerate the scientific triumphs of the year,
chiefest among them the discovery of argon.

Rayleigh, persevering in the main object which he had
promised in 1882, "a redetermination of the densities of the

principal gases," attacked nitrogen resolutely and, stimulated by

most disturbing and unexpected difficulties in the way of obtain

ing concordant results for the density of this gas as obtained

from different sources, discovered that the gas left by taking

vapour  l  of water,   carbonic acid, and oxygen from common air was
denser      by -^fa   than nitrogen obtained from chemical processes

from nitric oxide, or from nitrous oxide, or from ammonium nitrite,

   1 "On an Anomaly encountered in Determinations of the Density of
Nitrogen Gas," Roy. Soc. Proc., April 1894.

940 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

thereby rendering it probable that atmospheric air is a mixture of

nitrogen and a small proportion of some unknown and heavier

gas. Rayleigh, and Ramsay, who happily joined in the work at

this stage, have since succeeded in isolating the new gas, both

by removing nitrogen from common air by Cavendish's old

process of passing electric sparks through                                and taking away
                                                                it,

                                                                   I
                                                                               a
the nitrous compounds thus produced by alkaline liquor, and by

absorption by metallic magnesium. Thus we have fresh and

most interesting verification of statement which took occasion
       r1
                                   a

                                                           a
to make in my Presidential Address to the British Association in

1871     "Accurate and minute measurement seems to the non-

scientific imagination less lofty and dignified work than looking

for something new. But nearly all the grandest discoveries of

science have been but the rewards of accurate measurement and

patient, long-continued labour in the minute sifting of numerical

results." .
         ;.
    After the address came the presentation of.

medals and this year the Darwin medal was

awarded to Huxley, the youngest of the three who
had " kept the bridge " in defence of Darwin's

Origin of Species. Lord Kelvin, in handing the
medal, made the following pronouncement --
                                                                        it
ing  To the world    at"  lNaargteu,rapl erShealpesc,tioMn r".  Huxley's  itshare in mould
      the thesis of                                             was less  well known than
                                                                              it it
was his bold, unwearied exposition and defence of after had                           a:
                                                                                             it
been made public          and, indeed, speculative trifler,                                     revelling in
problems of the           might have been," would find                                         Darcwoningisemnial"
                           how soon what was now called "
                     ;"

theme in the inquiry    it
                                 it

                                           it a
would have met with the acceptance with which had met, and

gained the power which    had gained, had not been for the

brilliant advocacy with which in its early days was expounded
to all classes of men. That advocacy had one striking mark
                                                                                                 :

while    made, or strove to make, clear how deep the view went
1
down and how far reached, never shrank from striving to
make equally clear the limits beyond which could not go. Init
                                                                it
                                                                                    it
these latter days there was fear lest the view, once new, but now

familiar, might, through being stretched farther than                                          would

bear, seem to lose some of its real worth. They might well be

glad that the advocate of the "Origin of Species by Natural

       Republished in Vol. II. of Popular Lectures and Addresses, p. 56.
                                                                                               1
                                                                                                             :

xxII PRESIDENTIAL PRONOUNCEMENTS 941

rSeealdeyc,tioinf ,n" eewdhoweoren,cetob"orseavdeowitnfroitms  foes, was still  among          them,
                                                               its friends."

    The geological controversy (see p. 535) was
reopened in January 1895, m Nature, by Professor
John Perry, who pointed out that Lord Kelvin's
estimate of 100 million years for the age of the

earth, as deduced from thermal conductivity, must

be increased if the rocks at higher temperature in
the interior of the globe conduct better than those

in the crust. If the conductivity is increased

so that the temperature - gradient is 1° centi

grade in 45 feet, instead of in 90 feet, the age is
lengthened two hundred and ninety times. Lord
Kelvin, to whom the matter had been privately

submitted, wrote to Perry on December 13,

1894, asking further data about conductivity, and

adding :--

     The subject is intensely interesting ; in fact, I would
rather know the date of the Consistentior Status than of

the Norman Conquest ; but it can bring no comfort in

respect to demand for time in Palaeontological Geology.

Helmholtz, Newcomb, and another are inexorable in re

fusing sunlight for more than a score or a very few scores

of million years of past time (see Popular Lectures and

Addresses, vol. i. p. 397).
     So far as underground heat alone is concerned you

are quite right that my estimate was 100 millions,

and please remark (P. L. and A. vol.                                                           87) that
      is

                                                              ;

                                          I

                                                                           is ii.
                                                                                           p.
that    all Geikie wants but should be exceedingly

frightened to meet him now with only 20 million in my

mouth.

And, lastly, don't despise secular diminution of the

earth's moment of momentum. The thing too obvious

to every one who understands dynamics.

942 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                          CHAP.

    He wrote to M. Mascart :--

                         IN TRAIN, LONDON TO GLASGOW,

                                      Feb. 2, 1895.

DEAR MASCART -- I have been looking back to my

old estimate of the time which must have passed since

the consolidation of the earth supposed to have been

previously melted rock, and trying to find closer limits
                                      if it
founded on     definite information,         is to be got, as                                to
the following
                qualities :--

1. The melting temperature of rock of any time or

lava under ordinary atmospheric pressure ;
     2. The thermal capacity of rock at different tempera

tures up to melting ;

3. The thermal conductivity, do., do., do., do.;
4. The change of volume of rock on melting, do.
I have been looking in all the text-books and books

of tables in vain for such information.

Has not Deville given really trustworthy measure

ments of high temperatures, including melting points of

glasses and stones ; and as to (4) also ? Moissan too
has been working at high temperatures, and probably has

results as to several of those four questions. You are
sure to know, if any one knows, where information can

be had from any part of the world (Italian observers of
lava on Vesuvius ? American or others on the lava lake

of Hawaii and should be greatly obliged by few
      ?),

              I
                         if
                                 I
                                                     I

                                                                                          a
lines from you to tell me you have of your own know
ledge some of the information want, or where might

be able to find it.

     The mathematical problem of finding the proper case
of solution of the equation

                         /Kdv\        dv
               C
                               d      ~

                                              iIs,
with  K and given         functions   of v,        find,  quite  doable
and                                  always  truly,
      very interesting.  -- Yours

                                                          KELVIN.

                             GEOLOGY ONCE MORE                              943

                                           THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

                                                               February 4, 1895.

    DEAR MASCART -- Since my arrival home I have

found, in the following papers, Philosophical Magazine,

Oct 1891, p. 353, Messrs W. C. Roberts- Austen and
        Riicker, " On                                           "
A.  W.                       the Specific  Heat  of Basalt          ;  (2)  Phil.

Mag., July 1892, March 1893 (p. I and p. 296), Carl
Barus, "On the Fusion Constants of Igneous Rocks," a good
deal of valuable information on the subject on which I

wrote to you from the train on Saturday. I write just to

save you the trouble of referring me to any of these papers,

but I    shall be very       --glaYdouifrsyovuerycatnrulgyi,ve  me other refer
ences   or information.                                             KELVIN.

    Two months later Lord Kelvin wrote to Nature

(vol.   li.                  438), that R. Weber having made

measurements on sandstone and slate, saw no reasonp.

                          ;
to think that thermal conductivity increases with

temperature and that his own experiments showed

the conductivity to be less, not greater, at high

temperature. He also referred to a paper of January

1893, in the American Journal of Science, by
Clarence King, who, reasoning from thermal data
supplied by Carl Barus, concludes " We have no
                                                 :

warrant for extending the earth's age beyond 24

millions of years." On which Lord Kelvin remarked:
" am not led to differ much from his estimate of
I

24 million years."
    The Duke of Argyll came to Glasgow on January

15, 1895, to address the Liberal Unionist Associa
tion at the City Hall, and stayed with Lord Kelvin
in his University house. Lord Kelvin presided at

the meeting, which was densely packed. The

Duke, who was far from well, had only spoken for

944  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

about fifteen minutes when he fainted, and the

meeting was dismissed. He was removed to Lord
Kelvin's house, and recovered with a few days' rest.
Lord Kelvin had to go to Crewe on the 22nd to
present the prizes at the Mechanics' Institute in
that town. In replying to a vote of thanks he
remarked on the new electrical development which
was taking place in the railway works at Crewe,
where cranes and drilling machines were now being

worked by power supplied electrically through
wires. He went on to consider the possibility of
an electrical train being turned out at Crewe,

remarking that although such a thing might not be
probable, still neither Mr. Webb nor the North-
Western Railway would be behind any one else
in the event of the steam locomotive being super
seded by electricity. Mr. Webb, who presided,
thereupon rejoined that should his company order
one of their trains to be run by electricity, he would

undertake to complete it in two months.

    On the 3Oth of January Lord Kelvin was at
Wolverhampton to open the electric lighting station,
where he complimented Mr. Parker on the machine
that had been constructed at his works for trans
forming continuous currents. In the evening he was

entertained at a banquet by the Wolverhampton
Chamber of Commerce, and spoke on the progress of
engineering from the time of the Pyramids to the
modern steam-engine of to-day.

     There was one science, he said, which was most
fascinating, which until recent times was purely scientific,

XXII  ELECTRICAL DEVELOPMENTS  945

a subject for scientific investigation -- the science of elec

tricity. But its application to practical uses had grown

up wholly within the present century. A little before the

middle of this century Faraday brought out his great dis
covery, and in his own modest way anticipated some of
the great success which followed. He virtually gave us the
dynamo. The first practical application of electricity was

to electrometallurgy. It was with reference to electricity

for electroplating as well as for lighthouses that Faraday

had said : " I gave you this machine as an infant ; you

bring it back as a giant." They had seen it realized in

Wolverhampton that day.

    The next day Lord Kelvin presided at the

special meeting of the Royal Society called to

hear a discussion of the discovery of argon by
Rayleigh and Ramsay. The day after, he was in

Cambridge attending the funeral of his old friend

Professor Cayley.

    Lord Kelvin had now entered on the fifth year
of his Presidency of the Royal Society. At the

end of February 1895 ne wrote to Professor (now

Sir Arthur) Rucker, a Member of the Council :--

    Another thing I wanted to speak to you about, if I

had had the opportunity at our last Council meeting, is
the next election to the Presidency. I shall have had my
five years, and it will then be time to choose my successor.

It has been a great pleasure to me to be President, but
for many reasons I feel that however kindly the Council
might feel in respect to re-electing me a sixth time (as

indeed has been suggested to me as an idea that might
possibly be entertained), it would be in all respects better

that another should be elected. I should be glad, there
fore, if members of Council would be considering in good

time the question of who is to be elected.

Then there were more Unionist meetings to

946           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                            CHAP.

attend, and papers to be read in Glasgow andi.
                                                            a
London on the Dis-electrification of Air and on the                  ii.

Thermal Conductivity of Rocks.                    :
    June and July brought the round of society           2,

dinners, and then he fled to Aix-les-Bains for rest      it

and change.

    Lord Kelvin's Popular Lectures had been com
pleted in 1894 by the belated publication of volume
on " Geology and General Physics," and second
edition of volume was called for. He sent a copy
to Professor Tait, asking him for criticisms, and

received a sheet bubbling over with incoherent fun

couched in the old fantastic phrases, and furious com

ments like those so freely bandied between the two

friends in their earlier intimacy of the 'sixties,
when the great Treatise was in the making. Lord
Kelvin returned Tait's sheet scored over with lively
rejoinders in blue pencil, and Tait posted after

him to Aix with repartees in red. The following
letter couched in less exuberant terms --
is
                                                                 July 1895.isI

    DEAR TAIT -- thank you heartily and without reserveI

of any percentage for all the corrections and ameliorationsii.
                                             i.,
which you have given me for volume my chief motive
                 I
for doing so being that want you now, without anyI
delay, to do likewise for volumes and iii. Don't waste
your time in trying to mitigate in any way your expression
of disapprobation, however extreme. However keenly or
even wildly you may express yourself shall not be angry,
not even sorry, except when feel that the condemnation

    merited.

    What you say as to Heat, a Mode of Motion, Elas
ticity, a Mode of Motion, the title of Tyndall's beautiful

xxn TAIT CRITICIZES 947

book, and the nature of the Royal Institution Friday

evening audience (which always includes such people as
Stokes, Rayleigh, Schuster, Dewar, Lord Rosse, and all

the best and strongest scientists who chance to be in

London at the time with no more amusing evening engage
ment to keep them away) does not pain me at all. " My
withers are unwrung." So they are in respect to " centri

fugal force."

    I accept "Scottish-built," but it must be kept for

3rd edition. As to page 338, l. 3, you will see that I
have yielded. But in doing so I have spoiled my sentence,

which was quite correct as it stood. Putting them together,

with one part turned through zero angle relatively to the

other, is much more ingenious than the choice of any other

angle would have been.

We (Gray and have been making history here
(?
                  a
                            a ii.

                              I)
more important than that made by Mr. Brodrick and

Campbell-Bannerman in another place) during the last

10 days. We have done graphic histories of 22 encounters

between  free particle (Boscovich) and vibrator witha

from one to four impacts in each encounter. We are

nearing to-day        test  of the Maxwell-Boltzmann  law  of
distribution of  energy.
                            -- Yours,                  K.

From Aix-les- Bains Lord and Lady Kelvin took

short trip to Switzerland, returning in time for
a
                                            a
the British Association meeting at Ipswich on

September 11. Then                             full month was spent at

Netherhall. He was much occupied with calcula

tions about the new Pacific Cable.

    In October 1895 the Institut of France celebrated
the centenary of its creation. Lord Kelvin, as one

of the foreign associates, was invited to take part
      a

                                     It

                                                                a

                                                                                 in
the four days' celebration.                    began on October 23,

with     religious service in the church of Saint

Germain des Pres, followed by greeting of the

948  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

members to the foreign associates and corre
spondents, and a formal reception by the Minister

of Public Instruction, M. Poincare. The great day

was the 24th, beginning with a meeting in the great
hemicycle of the Sorbonne, at which the President
of the Republic, M. Felix Faure, was present, and

an oration was made by M. Jules Simon, and
speeches by M. Ambroise Thomas and M. Poincare.
In the afternoon there was a reception at the

Elysee ; in the evening a grand banquet at the
H6tel Continental, at which Max-Muller was the

spokesman of the foreign associates and corre
spondents. Later, Lord Kelvin presented an address

from the Royal Society, and in reply to an allocution
of the President of the Institut, pronounced the

following speech :--

     Personnellement les mots me font deTaut pour dire
combien j'apprecie le grand honneur que vous m'avez
confere, d'etre Associe de l' Institut de France. Mais je
dois a la France une dette encore plus grande. Elle est
vraiment YAlma mater de ma jeunesse scientifique, et
l'inspiratrice de l'admiration pour la beaute de la science
qui m'a enchaine et guid6 pendant toute ma carriere.

     Dans la bibliotheque du roi, pendant l'ete de 1839, j'ai
fait la connaissance d'une petite partie de la Mtcanique
celeste de Laplace, pour un Essat sur la figure de la Terre,

qu'il m'a fallu ecrire pour l'Universit6 de Glascou, comme
exercice d'etudiant. Avant que je quittasse l'Universite

de Glascou, mes professeurs m'y avaient montre la splen-
deur de Fourier.

     Six ans plus tard, le venerable Biot m'a pris par la
main et m'a place dans la laboratoire du College de

France sous la direction de Regnault ; ainsi j'ai vu ce grand
physicien, de jour en jour, travaillant sur les propri^t^s

xxn CENTENARY OF THE INSTITUT 949

physiques des gaz. A Regnault et a Liouville je serai

eternellement reconnaissant pour la bonte qu'ils m'ont
temoignee, et pour les methodes qu'ils m'ont enseignees
sur la physique experimentale et mathematique dans Tan

1845.
     Un an plus tard encore, la Puissance motrice du feu,

le travail de l'immortel Sadi Carnot, m'a reve!6 les
resultats si pratiques et si profondement ultra-theoriques
de son genie penetrant.

     Ainsi j'ai et6 nourri de la science la plus solide et vous
comprendrez, mes chers Confreres, pourquoi je regarde,
avec une reconnaissance profonde, la France comme mon
Alma mater de science.

     Monsieur le President de l'Institut et chers Confreres,
je vous remercie de tout mon cceur de votre bont6 pour
moi, et pour l'honneur que vous m'avez fait en m'appelant
a repondre au nom de la Societe Royale.

    The ffites concluded with a performance of Le

Cid, at the Theatre Frar^ais, and a visit to
Chantilly, where the aged Due d'Aumale still

resided.

     Lord Kelvin hurried back to Glasgow for the
duties of his Chair, but was interrupted by pro

fessional work. A letter to Mrs. King on November

 13, from the Athenaeum Club, tells her that he will

come to see her about 7 o'clock that evening.

     I should have to leave at 9, as I am very busy with a

 law case 1 (bicycle tyres), for which I shall be all day in

1 The case, relating to the "Clincher" tyre, lasted several days, and was
heard by a learned Judge who was as guiltless as Lord Kelvin of having ever
" Ilearned to ride a bicycle. After hearing his evidence the Judge turned to him
and said :-- Lord Kelvin,     have heard a great deal in this case about the

tendency of the tyre to come out of the rim ; now, in this patent the inner tube is

canvas-covered and inexpansible, and the pressure on the road tends to press
                                                         baincdyclwe it"h
" Ithe tyre into the rim." Theanswer     came  solemnly                    great  delibera
                                         were  riding a                    (with  the chief
tion :-- Suppose, my Lord,    t"haatt a
                                         high velocity, and suppose that in order
accent on the second syllable)

950                    LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                            CHAP.

Court, and I shall have a good deal to write and work out
for it here in the evening. It is a very interesting case
and I shall tell you all about it.

    On November 27 Lord Kelvin presided at the
Huxley Memorial Committee. On the 28th he

was spokesman at a deputation to the Duke of

Devonshire on behalf of the movement for a

Teaching University for London.

    On the 3Oth was the anniversary meeting of the
Royal Society. Lord Kelvin's Address opened

with an enumeration of the names of those Fellows

who had died within the year -- including Cayley,1
Neumann, Huxley,2 and Pasteur. He then spoke of

the great catalogue of scientific papers undertaken

by the Royal Society ; of the centenary of the

Institut ; of the Challenger Expedition publications ;

and of the discovery of argon and helium. Amongst
the medallists of the year to whom he handed the

medals were his former assistant Professor Ewing,
and Professor (now Sir William) Ramsay, at one
time a student in his laboratory. The following

Ito decrease the velocity very quickly, were suddenly to turn the front wheel
Iso that its

think that
rim ! "
        --platnheerewawsousludbstbaen--tialaly--  at right  angles   to  the direction of motion,
                                                  tendency          the   tyre to come out of the
                                                            -- for

    1 In his reference  to Cayley there is a personal               note that cannot  be omitted
here: --
" In Cayley we have lost one of the makers of mathematics, a poet in the

true sense of the word, who made real for the world the ideas which his ever-

Ifertile imagination created for himself. He was the Senior Wrangler of my

freshman's year at Cambridge, and well remember to this day the admira
                       which, before
        and awe with   to regard his  the end of my first term, just fifty-four years
                                      mathematical powers. When a little later
        I had learned
tion

Iago,
attained to the honour of knowing him personally, the awe was evaporated
by the sunshine of his genial kindness ; the admiration has remained unabated

to this day, and his friendship has been one of the valued possessions of my

life."

2 See p. 1088 infra for a quotation from the appreciation of Huxley.

xxn LAST PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS 951

are his closing words on vacating the presidential

Chair :--

     Five years have now passed since you elected me to be your

President Living at a distance of 400 miles from London, I

felt that it could not be possible for me to accept the honour

when the possibility of its being offered to me was first suggested.

I accepted, with much misgiving as to my ability to perform the

duty which would fall upon me ; and now, after having been

Ire-elected four times, feel that if the interests of the Society

have not suffered under my presidency, it is chiefly because they

have been so faithfully and unintermittently cared for and worked

for by the other officers, the Treasurer and the Secretaries, who

have left nothing undone that could be done to promote the

welfare of the Royal Society. For their unfailing kindness to
        I can                                              --IthesooCnoufnocuinldmteheat t
myself           only offer   my heartfelt thanks.                            I
        looked    forward    to with apprehension
what I

Iings, and as many of                                                             could attend,
                                                                                 the reverse of
during my University
                            tsheessioonrdininaryGlmasegeotwin--gs   as
                                                                   were
fatiguing ; and I am only sorry that have been so many times

Iobliged to      forgo                                     of performing    that part of my
                 duty.                                     otherwise with  unmixed pleasure
presidential
                            the pleasure

                             I look back

tnoowallist--he   meetings   at which  have                presided, and my sole       --regthreatt
                            disguise   and                           very keen regret
                 I cannot
                 I
                                                it,
                                                        it
                                                                  is
                                                                      a
                                                          I
these five years are passed, and that to-day cease to be your

President.       thank you all, my colleagues of the Royal Society,

for electing me five times to be your President, for forgiving me

all my shortcomings, and for the inestimable benefit which you

have conferred on me by giving me your friendship.

    The following letter to Lord Rayleigh brings us
back to mundane affairs --
                            Ia
                                                        :  Dec. 14/95,
                                                           THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW.
DEAR RAYLEIGH -- My secretary
                                                           I is            busy drawing  it, a

new (old) form of water-tap, for which am immediately
going to take out patent (to get over the possibility of

failure in hard water such as we have in the Athenaeum,

and in some other places in the south of England, in the

existing pattern which has been bringing discredit on

and which, since ceased to be P.R.S., saw to be due
                                                                           I

to geometrical and mechanical ill-conditionedness, pro

ducing no bad result with Loch Katrine water), and this

952  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                         CHAP.

is my apology for less clear writing than you should
otherwise have had respecting encounters.

    I think the post of scientific adviser to the Trinity
House would be particularly interesting to you, and if you

think the conditions as to duty expected and remunera

aticocnepat reit.s--atiYsofaucrtso, ry,  you  would,  I  think,  be quite right  to
                                                                       KELVIN.

    He wrote on December 24 to Professor Hugh
Blackburn :--·

    You were no doubt amused by letters of arm-chair
enthusiasts for the beauties of Nature, about the Falls of
Foyers, and (I hope) pleased by the final quietus to the
fever given by the County Council. The turbines, I
hope, will be going, and the aluminium coming, by

February or March.
     Did you receive a Comptes Rendus containing my

" allocution " at the centenary banquet in Paris ? If not,
it will be sent. You will see that I did not forget

Glasgow. I am not sure if 3 1 Rue Monsieur le Prince
has not been taken down, to give space for new (Ecole

de Medecine) buildings.

    The year closes with a letter to his niece, Miss
May Crum :--

                                                  THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

                                                                         Christmas, 1895.

    MY DEAR MAY -- Your father brought me your letter,
and we have been greatly enjoying his visit. It is very

kind of you to console me on my sad imprisonment
Really I feel perfectly well, and strongly disposed to
disagree with Dr. Tennent, but your Aunt Fanny won't
allow me to disobey. It will be too sad if we lose the

delightful time we had been looking forward to at

...Thornliebank, but I hope when the 3rd comes, or before
     we may find Dr. Tennent more reasonable.

have been reading Lucretius, much helped by Munro's
it,

                                                                            I

xxII INDISPOSED 953

(not the author of THE doctrine) translation, and trying
                                                        of the clash
hard on my own account to  msuackceesss.o--metYhoinugr   affectionate
of atoms, but with little

unk(! !)le,                                             KELVIN.

    The year 1896, which was to witness the jubilee
of Lord Kelvin's tenure of the Chair of Natural

Philosophy, opened inauspiciously enough, for he

was far from well that winter.  All through

December 1895 he complained at intervals of a
tired leg, sore and painful at times, but just before

Christmas, when he was purposing to leave Glasgow
for Netherhall, an oedematous swelling, such as
had troubled him much after the accident of 1861,

caused his medical adviser to order him to keep

his bed for several weeks. At the end of January

there supervened a sharp attack of pleurisy. Though

suffering much he bore his sufferings with great

patience, and was greatly helped by his ability to

sleep soundly. Except when the pleurisy was acute

he worked at his notebook, dictated letters to his

secretary, and took the keenest interest in the

events of the hour, both scientific and political, as
the following letters show. It had been settled

that he was to give another Friday evening dis
course at the Royal Institution in April, but he now

wrote to the Honorary Secretary, on the loth of

January, that he must abandon the project :--

I have been almost wholly confined to bed since the

1 6th of December on account of a swelling in my bad

leg, which was broken Christmas eve 35 years ago. I

am now much better, but the doctor's orders are most

VOL. II                                                 2B

954  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                  CHAP.

peremptory that I am still to keep, very much at least,
to the sofa, and as much as possible avoid standing. I

need not tell you that I am exceedingly sorry to fail you

for the Friday evening lecture to which I had been

looking forward with much pleasure.

    Eventually M. Lippmann took Lord Kelvin's

place, and lectured on Colour Photography.
    The papers had been full of the wonders of

Rontgen's rays, about which Lord Kelvin was

intensely sceptical until Rontgen himself sent him

a copy of his Memoir,1 whereupon he wrote :--

                                                                  January 17, 1896.

     DEAR PROF. RONTGEN --When I wrote to you thank

ing you for your kindness in sending me your paper and

the photographs which accompanied                                 had only seen
I
                                              I
                                                            I it,

                                                     I

                                                                                       I
the photographs and had not had time to read the paper.

need not tell you that when read the paper was

very much astonished and delighted.                               can say no more

now than to congratulate you warmly on the great dis

covery you have made, and to renew my thanks to you

for  ypohuortokgirnadpnhess.s--inBesloieveearlmy es, eynoduinrsg   me your paper          and
the                                                               very truly,

                                                                  KELVIN.

    He wrote to Sir Joseph (now Lord) Lister on
January 27:--

     Ask Rayleigh he not in                                       state of great excite
ment about Rontgen's X-rays.
1

                      if

                                         : is
                                                           a
    To his sister, Mrs. King, now in her seventy-
seventh year, he wrote --

       W. C. Rontgen, Ueber eine neue Art von Strahlen, Sitzungsber. dtr
Wiirsburger Physik-mcdic. Gcsellschaft, December 1895.

               RONTGEN'S RAYS              955

                               THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,

MY       DEAR  ELIZABETH -- I        Sunday, Jan. 26/96.  so
                               am very sorry to have

long been prevented from writing to thank you for the

lovely new year's gift (I can't look at it and see it as only
a new year's card) which Fanny brought to me from you
when we were in London. Since our return I have had

my secretary at work with me from instantly after break

fast (sometimes even before it was finished) till 7.45 or 8
in the evening, every day except yesterday, when I

managed to get him away by 2.30 for a Saturday after
noon walk which he told me he was to have with a friend

(this sort of thing will become illegal, I am afraid, when

the 8 hours bill becomes law). So you will understand

why it is that I have so long been kept from writing

to you.

Fanny and I both think the picture quite lovely and

very interesting, with the old tower overgrown with hang

ing creepers, and the ruined village, and the dome of

St. Peter's in the distance. We are going to have it

framed and hung up where we shall see it.

   I am still ordered to keep the bad leg up and give it

all the rest possible, and told emphatically that the more

thoroughly I obey this order the sooner I shall be quite
well and again ready for everything. I believe I am (I
mean the leg is) really somewhat better, but the progress

is disappointingly slow. I am feeling perfectly well, and

am getting on with my work (with secretary's aid), as well
as staying in bed till lunch-time, and as nearly as possible

in the same position till night downstairs allows, but it

is tiresome and disappointing to be so long kept from

walking about, and going to the laboratory for my work

there which is always going on, etc. etc.

I am afraid this is rather queer writing, as it is done

on a table in bed ! Newspaper reading has been very

exacting of late. What inconceivable folly (not to use a
harsher word) Dr. Jamieson's bringing those 700 or 800
young men to what they came to seems to have been.

It is inconceivable also how officers of the British Army

956  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN        CHAP.

joined in the mad affair. What a trial and investigation

there must be ! One thing must follow, that our Govern

ment must never again shirk their duty of governing and

hand it over to irresponsible, unqualified people or com
panies.- ---Your aff. brother,
                                KELVIN.

    P.S. -- I hope you and Elizabeth, Junr., are both much
better than when Fanny saw you, and that Agnes is

keeping well.

    He sent Stokes on February i a long mathe
matical letter, ending thus :--

    In respect of the Rontgen X-rays, are you a longi-

tudinalist, or an ultra-violetist, or a tertium-quidist ? . . .
I had a slight attack of pleurisy, which came on suddenly

on Monday. I am feeling much better now, and the

doctor is well satisfied with progress, but he won't let me

out of his hands on any account yet, and I don't know

what he will say when he hears that I have been dictating
this, also a short article for Nature on " Maxwell's Infinite
Velocity for the Propagation of Electrostatic Force," for

which look out next week.

   A letter on Rontgen's rays to Oliver Lodge,

of February 4, is printed in another connexion on

p. 1062.

    On February 10 Lady Kelvin sent word to
Mrs. King that Lord Kelvin was going on as well
as possible, but that she feared the leg was going to
tie him down for some time :--

     The doctors all insist on the necessity of absolute rest
Even Sir Joseph Lister, who wrote to Dr. Hector Cameron
to ask him to see Dr. Tennent, writes begging him, how
ever well he feels, to keep quiet and rest. The remains
of pleurisy is keeping him still in bed at present, and the
leg is still swelled a good deal. Dr. Tennent always ends

XXII               RONTGEN'S RAYS                           957

up by saying he will be quite well for his jubilee. It is
fortunate that James [Bottomley] is so well, for he is
obliged to take all William's lectures. William frets very
much at not being able to take his lectures. He has had

the higher mathematicians twice in the dining-room. . . .
He is allowed to do some work, fortunately.

      Again he wrote to Stokes, and to Admiral

Wharton, and to Professor (now Sir) Joseph J.

Thomson :--

                                                                       February 12, 1896.

    DEAR STOKES -- I am very much obliged to you for

your letter of yesterday. Rayleigh gives me a reference            a is,
to § 301 of his book on Sound, volume ii., where there
particularly in equation (12), something for condensational-

rarefactional waves, analogous to what                 wrote to you
                        I it

                                            it
                                                   is

                                                 I
regarding transverse vibrations in an elastic solid in my

letter of Feb. 1.

      As to the true Kathodenstrom,  wonderful how the

Germans have called     Kathodenstrahl, having allowed

themselves to be misled by Hittorf and Goldstein. They,

every one of them that know of, except Helmholtz, have

insisted with something like strong partisan spirit upon
ray of undulatory light from the cathode, and have blindly
refused to accept Varley's conclusion of torrent of mole
                        it
cules, corroborated as        is

                                                         a

                                                       I
                        by Crookes.                         enclose a

marked copy of my address of 1893, which may show

you, or remind you of some dates and references on the

subject.
     As to the Rontgen rays, you will see in Nature for

Jan. 23, page 275, second column, that Rontgen himself
made the experiment which you tell me                       Thomson
                                if
                                             J.

                                                is J.
thinks of making, and that he found, as nearly as he could

test an intensity varying inversely as the square of
I
the distance. This, of course,it,    confirmed,             decisive
against the hypothesis of " push " in an incompressible

medium.

      feel strongly disposed to Rontgen's own supposition

958      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                     CHAP.

of condensational - rarefactional waves, but still I see

tremendous difficulties.

Thanks for your inquiries. I am now practically well

except that the doctor still rigorously orders the leg to

be kept horizontal, and   so for             the present  I am   --keYpoturins
bed. The pleurisy is      nearly             quite gone
                                                          away.

always,                                                   KELVIN.

                                                                       February 12, 1896.

   DEAR WHARTON -- I am very glad to have the paper
which you send me with your letter of yesterday. I shall

read it with great interest. I have no doubt that you

are right that the prime motor of surface currents is the

wind. If you care to look at page 145 of Volume III. of

my Popular Lectures and Addresses, you will see something
on the subject which I hope you will find correct. There

certainly is a tremendous shovelling, as it were, of water
to leeward in breaking waves under strong wind, and I

suppose every gale of wind, lasting for two or three days,

leaves a strong surface current for several days after it.
     There certainly are also deep - seated permanent

currents, due to differences in temperature in the water
itself, by which great changes of water, especially between

polar and equatorial regions, are produced. There was a

great deal that was right in Dr. Carpenter's views on this

subject, though I believe he did not sufficiently take also

into account the great and rapid surface currents produced

by wind, and the widespread distant return surface cur

rents which they entail, as in Clayden's model which you

describe.

    I suppose I am right in believing that nowhere, either

in Antarctic regions or in North Polar regions, is there

any great area of ice-bound sea which is not landlocked ?

tIhissh. --oulYdoubersgtrreualtyl,y obliged  by a single  line in answer to
                                                                 KELVIN.

                                                                       February 18, 1896.

    DEAR THOMSON -- I am exceedingly interested in

three things you tell me in your letter of the 1 6th, and

much obliged to you for telling me them.

XXII            RONTGEN'S RAYS                                   959

      1. The selective absorption of some of the Rontgen

light which you find with plates of the same metal, but of

different thicknesses, seems almost certainly to be precisely

analogous to the absorption of ordinary light by coloured

glass, and therefore to prove that you have got different

colours of Rontgen light. If this is true, you will of course

find the different kinds of the light that you get by your

sifting through plates of different metals, will, all of them,

follow the law of inverse square of the distance, except in

so far as some of them may be sensibly absorbed by a
metre or two of air. It is most interesting to think that

now in metals you have quasi-coloured glasses for Rontgen

light, and that dielectrics are nearly white, beside being,

as Rontgen found them, wonderfully transparent. One of

the next things to try is the relative photographic powers

of the different colours of the Rontgen light, and to test

different photographic substances so as to find which is
                                                              l
most sensitive  for one colour and  which  for  another          also
                                                             ;

similar experiments with different phosphorescent sub

stances. It remains to be seen, too, whether the different

colours of the X-light have not different refractive indices,

if any one of them has really a refractive index sensibly

different from unity. I enclose a paper of Lenard's, as it

may save you the trouble of looking it up in Wiedemann,

if you have not seen it already. I have not had time

yet to read it through. You may perhaps find in it some

thing of the coloured -glass principle proved in numerical

results, though not referred to in the text.

    2. It is most interesting to find the X-light causing

the air to be temporarily electrolytic. I suppose this has

already been done for the ultra-violet light. We have

done it for flame here, as you will see from one of the

enclosed papers. Fumes from a spirit-lamp flame, passing

between plates of polished zinc and polished copper (the

flame being about a foot below the plates), produce a

difference of potentials equal 10-78 of a volt between
copper wires connected to the two plates. This is just

    1 It seems quite improbable that the best photographic   substance for

sensibility for X-light has been found by any one hitherto.

960 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

about the same as is produced by a bridge of pure

water between the polished plates.

    I enclose also another paper (by Maclean and Goto)

related to this subject, which has only been published in

the Proceedings of the Glasgow Philosophical Society.
3. Quite wonderful l and most interesting ! Was the

saturated steel needle the test ; or was something else

--useYdo, umrsoreveraydatprutelyd,  for receiving  a succession  of signals ?
                                                                 KELVIN.

    The next letter gives Lord Kelvin's reasons for

the preference he had long held for the use of con

tinuous currents in electric transmission of power :--

                                                                         February 25, 1896.

    DEAR MR. CAMPBELL SWINTON -- Notwithstanding
that I am confined to bed (and to be so according to

doctor's orders for a fortnight), I should have been happy
to see you, and I should certainly have been greatly pleased
and interested to talk over with you the subject of your
letter which I have received this morning.

     For electric transmission of power over very long
distances, very high pressure is necessary for economy. I
object to the use of alternate currents for this practical pur

pose, primarily because 4 1 per cent higher pressure can be
transmitted to a great distance by direct current than by
alternate current, with the same conductors and insulation
in the two cases. For distances exceeding 50 miles it
would probably be advisable to use two wires, one of them
at + 20,000, and the other at -- 20,000 volts' difference

of potentials from the earth. I believe it would not be

possible to obtain, for such distances, as good economy
by alternate current as by direct current. The prime cost
of direct -current dynamos for such purposes has never

been gone into practically.

   Let me know if there is any other question that I can

   1 [This refers to Rutherford's " magnetic detector," with which he had

been sending wireless signals by means of Hertz waves to a distance of half
a mile across the town of Cambridge. ]

XXII             RONTGEN'S RAYS                                 961

answer in writing. Should you think it worth while to

come here and talk the matter over with me, I should be

delighted to see you and to discuss all the pros and

cons.

    I thank you for your kind inquiries. I am much

better, and I am really feeling perfectly well, but medical

opinion is quite decided that absolute rest for some weeks

yet is necessary for my leg. They say that if I am
thoroughly obedient to them in this respect I will be
                        islosnagt.i--sfaBcteolireyv, ebumt eI,
perfectly well.  This                                           am disappointed
to be kept laid                                                 yours very truly,
                 up so

                                                                KELVIN.

    Lady Kelvin was able by the end of February to
write to Mrs. King: -- "William is really very well
in his bed, and very busy. The days are never
long enough for all he wishes to do ! " Many
were the letters he wrote to Stokes and to Lord

Rayleigh, discussing keenly the possible explana
tion of Rontgen's rays. Acknowledging one from
Stokes on phosphorescence, he wrote on March 27,

1896: --

     I have instructed the Pitt Press to send you advance
corrected proofs (which have been in print eight years) of
the first 1 1 2 pages of my Baltimore Lectures. You will
find the formula I gave you a few weeks ago on page 106,
also a good deal of fluorescence and phosphorescence
jangling about in one-half or other of most of the lectures.
I am afraid you will be very much shocked to see such a
rigmarole as having been given in University Lectures.
I hope it will not plague you to have them in your hands
and to keep them till you get the rest of the volume from
the Pitt Press, which I hope may be within a year from
now.

    In April and May Lord Kelvin was in London,

and gave evidence before the Select Committee on

962                LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                              CHAP.

Petroleum. The Act of 1871 had required that
paraffin oil should fulfil a flash-test of 100°, but in

1879 the Home Office had lowered the test to 73°,
thereby admitting the free sale of dangerous low
flash-point oils. Lord Kelvin told the Committee :

    The principle of safety is that oil should never in a lamp reach
the temperature of the close-test flash-point. I advise the Com

mittee to fix a flash-point which shall be higher than oil is likely

to reach under ordinary conditions of ordinary use.
    I am clearly of opinion that in order to avoid accidents the

flash-point must be raised, and that no construction of lamp will

Imeet this difficulty.

        call it terrible that 25 per cent of all the deaths by fire in
London during the year were due to paraffin-lamp accidents.

    It seems to me that the logical outcome of Sir Frederick

Abel's work ought to have been to declare that the 100° test in

force in the 1871 Act must be fulfilled by a proper close test.

There was no good reason for reducing the test from 100° to
         It seems
73°.I               to  me that it was a mistake.
       think that  the
                        accidents which have     b--eeanmrpelyposruteffdicieanrte.  amply
                        prohibitive legislation
sufficient to justify

    In spite of this, and similar views expressed by
such chemists as Sir Henry Roscoe and Sir William

Ramsay, nothing has been done.

    Lord Kelvin felt very strongly on this question.
Formerly no paraffin oil was allowed to be sold
unless it passed the flash-test at no°F., that is to

say, unless it was of such a quality that even when

warmed to 1 10° it did not give off explosive vapours.
The American oil-dealers in 1865-7 agitated to get
this reduced to 100°, although in British Govern
ment offices no oil is accepted of lower flash-point

than 105°, and many of the American States insist
on a test equally stringent. Yet in 1868 the test

was lowered to 100°, and an open test-cup was

xxn  THE DEADLY FLASH-POINT  963

legalized, which in practice proved to be erroneous

to an average extent of 27 degrees. In other words,
oil which was actually giving off explosive vapour

at 73° (Fahr.) did not flash in this open cup until it
reached 100°. The number of fires due to paraffin
lamps increased owing to the introduction of cheap
low-flash oils. In spite of this, in 1879, when a

new and more efficient test was adopted, the flash

point was by a scandalous manoeuvre reduced to 73°.
In the ten years from 1881 to 1891 the fires in
London due to paraffin oil went up to 50 per cent.

It was chiefly due to Lord Kelvin's evidence that

the Select Committee rather reluctantly recom

mended the raising of the flash-point (Abel test) to

1 00°. A Flash-point Bill, introduced in 1899, was

defeated on second reading by 244 votes to 159, a
result mainly brought about by the promise (un
fulfilled) of Mr. Jesse Collings (the Under-Secretary
for the Home Department) to bring in a Govern

ment Bill to deal with the whole matter. A new

Government came in in 1900, and another in 1906,
but nothing has been done. The scandal of the

free sale of dangerous low-flash oil continues.

              CHAPTER XXIII

                     THE JUBILEE : RETIREMENT

CELEBRATIONS of birthdays and jubilees of dis
tinguished men are much less frequent in Great
Britain than in most Continental states. But on
rare occasions even the stolid Briton is stirred into
a public demonstration of feelings that he is apt
ordinarily to conceal. The Jubilee of Lord Kelvin,
which was celebrated at Glasgow University on
June 15, 16, and 17, 1896, was one of these rare
occasions. His colleagues in the University, his
students past and present, his fellow- workers in
science and in University life, all united to make the
event a memorable one. From the official record
published by the University the following account
is taken, with but few added details.

    It was because of the unique character of the
work done and of the personality of the worker that
the Jubilee of Lord Kelvin became one of the most
strangely impressive functions. It had in it some
thing of the nature of a spontaneous outburst of
enthusiasm, as well as of the studied and respectful
homage shown by representatives of all the world
to a great thinker and actor. At the gatherings

                                                                  964

CHAP, xxni  THE JUBILEE  965

held in the University and in the City of Glasgow
in 1896 to signalize the fiftieth year of Lord Kelvin's
tenure of the chair of Natural Philosophy in the
University of Glasgow, no element in our academic
or natural life was left unrepresented. Delegates
from every seat of learning and from nearly every
scientific body in Great Britain and Ireland were
assembled, and with them were the men who have

made or are making their mark in Glasgow and in
the West of Scotland. Representatives there were
too from the Colonies, and many brilliant and dis

tinguished foreigners came to do honour to their

great scientific fellow-worker.

    The students at the University had invited
delegates from the Universities of Great Britain
and Ireland, and from many foreign Universities

as well, and throughout the celebrations it was

evident that the undergraduates were as eager to

honour their senior professor as were his oldest

friends. It was interesting also to notice that
among the great number of congratulatory messages
received by Lord Kelvin during this week, there

were many from men who had formerly been under
graduates in his class, and who were now occupying

posts in various parts of the world. As an instance
of this may be mentioned the addresses sent from
former Japanese students of Lord Kelvin's class,

now at Tokyo.
    The first gathering, a conversazione in the halls

of the University, took place on the evening of

Monday, June 15, 1896.

966 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

    It was a brilliant sight, and very different from
the daily routine of academic life. The sombre
halls and cloisters and staircases of the College
were lit up by electric light, decorated with flowers,
and filled with a moving mass of colour ; and the

summer evening was so beautiful, that in the eastern
quadrangle many of the guests strolled up and down
listening to the pipes of the Gordon Highlanders.

The innumerable differences in the robes worn

by the guests represented well the cosmopolitan
character of the gathering.

    About two thousand five hundred ladies and

gentlemen had been invited, embracing the repre
sentatives of Universities, Societies, and Institu

tions, and other distinguished visitors ; the members

of the University Court and Senate, about four
hundred and fifty members of the General Council,
and fully two hundred Students ; the Lord Provost,
Magistrates, and members of the Town Council,
and many prominent citizens of Glasgow and
residents in the West of Scotland and other parts
of the country. The Bute Hall, the Hunterian
Museum, and the upper hall of the Library were
thrown open, and in the latter there was an exhi
bition of mechanical, electrical, and scientific
apparatus and contrivances designed by Lord
Kelvin ; and of the diplomas and certificates of

membership, as well as medals, presented to him
by Universities, Colleges, and Institutions.

    In the upper hall of the Library the Eastern.
the Anglo-American, and the Commercial Cable

XXIII THE JUBILEE 967

Companies had fitted up siphon -recorders in con
nection with their cables, and a large number of
congratulatory telegrams1 from all parts of the
world were received in the course of the evening,
and suitable replies transmitted.

    After the Conversazione the Students held a

Gaudeamus and a reception of delegates from other
Universities in the large hall of the Union.

    On Tuesday morning, June 16, 1896, an im
pressive function took place in the Bute Hall
of the University, when the many distinguished
men assembled in Glasgow presented to Lord
Kelvin addresses from the Universities and

Societies whom they represented. A letter was
first read from the Prince of Wales :--

DEAR          LORD  KELVIN --The                MARLBOROUGH HOUSE,              to
                                                     loth June 1896.

                                      Prince of Wales desires me

offer you his wannest congratulations upon your having attained

the fiftieth year of the tenure of your professorship in the

University of Glasgow.

1 Amongst the telegrams received during the evening was one from the

Glasgow Jubilee Committee which they sent from Glasgow by the Anglo-
American Atlantic Cable to Newfoundland, thence via New York, Chicago,

San     Francisco, New    Orleans,    W:--ashington  and New York back through  the
         to Lord Kelvin.                                                         of
cabl"e  By the Atlantic       It ran

                          cable, which represents your unrivalled combination
scientific genius and practical skill, the Glasgow Jubilee Committee send you
their warmest congratulations."

This message occupied seven and a half minutes in traversing the circuit

"of about  20,000 miles ; and to it Lord Kelvin      :r--eplied  in a message  which
           tour minutes to compass the same route
took but
        The cable companies have beaten Ariel by half a minute. Wannest

thanks to the Glasgow University Jubilee Committee."
     The Viceroy of India telegraphed from Simla, the President of the

Orange Free State from Bloemfontein, and Earl Grey from Bulawayo.

     Lord Glasgow telegraphed from New Zealand, and Sir James Sivewright
from Cape Town. Congratulations were received from several prominent
Americans, including Professor Elihu Thomson, Mr. Westinghouse, and Mr.
C. F. Brush.

968       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                          CHAP.

His Royal Highness is in most cordial sympathy with the

eminent representatives of universities, learned societies, and
other public bodies in different parts of this empire and in

foreign states, who, to do     you  honour, have assembled in the
University which has for         a                     apypelaicrsat--ionesve--ntefunl
through the rapid advance      of   long series    of
                                    science and  its

joyed the high prestige derived from your close association with

its work, and from the invaluable and brilliant contributions to

science resulting from the researches carried on by you during

the last half-century within its walls.

The Prince of Wales remembers with much satisfaction that

he had the gratification, seventeen years ago, to present you
with the medal instituted by the Society of Arts as a memorial

of the Prince Consort, and awarded to men who have rendered

pre-eminent service in promoting arts, manufactures, and

science.

    The work which you had at that time accomplished was
but an earnest of the important researches to which you have

since then devoted yourself so indefatigably, and he cherishes

the sincere hope that you may long continue to enjoy the

happiness derived from the most gratifying evidence that the

high value of the service rendered by    yaopupretchiraotuegdh. --sIciernecmeainto,
mankind is universally recognised and

dear Lord Kelvin, yours truly,                   FRANCIS KNOLLYS.

f.S. -- His Royal Highness desires me to repeat what he

has already stated to the University authorities, how greatly he

regrets that long-formed engagements in the south prevent him

from having the pleasure of being present on the occasion of

this interesting celebration.                    FRANCIS KNOLLYS.

    Thereafter the following Congratulatory Ad
dresses were presented to Lord Kelvin by the
following representatives :--

                    FROM UNIVERSITIES

    Aberdeen, Professor Finlay, M.D., Professor Niven, F.R.S.,
and Professor Pirie ; Ann Arbor, Professor R. M. Wenley, M.A.,
D.Sc., D.Phil. ; Baltimore (Johns Hopkins University), James
A. Thomas, M.D. ; Bombay, Mr. Justice Jardine, Vice-
Chancellor, and G. N. Nadkarin, LL.B. ; Cambridge, Professor
A. R. Forsyth, Sc.D., F.R.S., Professor Sir George G. Stokes,

xxm THE JUBILEE 969

LL.D., D.C.L., F.R.S., and Professor J. J. Thomson, M.A.,
F.R.S. ; Edinburgh, Professor Crum Brown, M.D., F.R.S., and
Professor Sir William Turner, LL.D., D.C.L., F.R.S. ; Glasgow
(Senates Academicus), Professor Stewart, D.D. ; Glasgow
 University (General Council), John G. Kerr, M.A., and Archibald
Craig, LL.B. ; Heidelberg, Professor Quincke ; Kasan ; Lille,
Professors Pinloche and Angellier ; London, Sir Henry E.
Roscoe, F.R.S., Vice-Chancellor, and Professor Carey Foster,
F.R.S. ; Montreal (M' Gill University), Sir D. A. Smith, G.C.M.G.,
LL.D., Chancellor, and W. Peterson, LL.D., Principal; New
Haven (Yale University); New York (Columbia University),
Professor Van Amringe ; Oxford, Professor Clifton, F.R.S., the
Provost of Oriel, and Professor Burdon Sanderson, F.R.S. ;
Paris, Professor Bonet-Maury ; Philadelphia, Professor G. F.
Barker, M.D. ; Princeton, Professor Woodrow Wilson ; Rome,
General Annibale Ferrero; St. Andrews, Professor Pettigrew,
M.D., LL.D., F.R.S., and Professor Scott Lang; Sydney, Pro
fessor Liversidge, M.A., F.R.S. ; Tokyo (Imperial University of
Japan) ; Upsala, Professor P. T. Cleve ; Victoria (Manchester,

Liverpool, and Leeds), Principal Ward, Vice-Chancellor, and
Professors Lodge, Osborne Reynolds, M'Cunn, and Stroud ;
 Wales (University of), Principal Viriamu Jones and Professor

Andrew Gray, LL.D., F.R.S. ; Washington (Columbian University),

Professor Cleveland Abbe.

                    FROM COLLEGES

Aberystwith (University College), R. D. Roberts, M.A., D.Sc. ;
Bangor (University College of North Wales), Professor Andrew
Gray, LL.D., F.R.S.;                                        Rev.   Thomas
Hamilton, D.D., LLD.,  Belfast (Queen's     College),     Purser,          ;
                        President, and   Professor                 LL.D.

Cork (Queen's College), Professor Bergin, M.A. ; Dublin (Royal

College of Science  fLoLr.DIr.e;lanLdo)nd; onGa(lwCaityy  ( Queen's College), Sir
                                                          and Guilds Technical
Thomas Moffett,

College, Finsbury), Professor Silvanus P. Thompson, D.Sc., F.R.S.;
London (Royal College of Science), Professor W. A. Tilden, D.Sc.,
F.R.S.; London (University College), Professor Ramsay, F.R.S.;

Newcastle - on - Tyne (Durham College of Science), Professor
Philipson, M.D. ; Oxford (Balliol College); Paris (Ecole
Normale SupMeure), Professor Violle.

FROM SOCIETIES AND INSTITUTIONS

    Amsterdam (Royal Academy   of Science) ; Baltimore (Mem
bers of Sir William Thomson's  Class of 1884, Johns Hopkins

   VOL. II                                                        2C

970  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

University), Professor Cleveland Abbe ; Berlin (Royal Prussian
Academy of Sciences) ; Cambridge (Bachelors and Undergraduates
of University of), F. W. Lawrence, B.A., and Philip W. Wilson ;
Christiania (Students of the University of), Cato Aall ; Copen
hagen (Royal Danish Society of Sciences), Professor Christiansen ;

Cracow (Academy of Letters) ; Dublin (Science and Art Depart
ment) ; gdinbu.rgh (Educational Institute of Scotland), John
Dunlop, F.E.I.S. ; Edinburgh (Scottish Geographical Society), Sir

Renny Watson ; Erlangen (Physikalisch-medicinische Societdt zu

Erlangeri) ; Glasgow (Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons), Bruce
Goff, M.p., President ; Glasgow (Geological Society), Sir Archibald
Geikie, F.R.S., and J. Barclay Murdoch, Esq. ; Glasgow (School
Board of), Sir John N. Cuthbertson, LL.D., and Rev. William
Boyd, L(!D. ; Glasgow (Students of University of), John S.
Thomson, President of the Students' Representative Council ;

Gottingen (Royal Society of Science), Professor Woldemar Voigt ;
Helsingfors, Finland (Society of Sciences) ; Lilge (L' Association des
Ingtnieurs Electridens, Sortis de PInstitut Montefiore) ; Lille
(Students of University of); London (Royal Society), Sir Joseph
Lister, M.B., P.R.S ; London (British Association for Advance
ment of Science), Professor A. W. Riicker, F.R.S. ; London (Royal
Institution of Great Britain), Professor Dewar, F.R.S. : London
(Mathematica^ Society), Major p. A. MacMahon, R.A., F.KS. ;
London (Royal Astronomical Society), A. Ainslie Common, LL.D.,
F.R.S. ; London (Physical Society), Captain W. de W. Abney,
F.R.S. ; London (Chemical Society), Professor John M. Thomson;
London (Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain and Ireland),
Professor Ramsay, F.R.S. ; London (Institution of Electrical
Engineers), John Hopkinson, F.R.S. ; London (Institution of
Civil Engineers), Sir Benjamin Baker, K.C.M.G., F.R.S. ;

London (Society of Engineers), Henry O'Connor, Esq. ; London
(Society for Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Com
merce); London (Glasgow University Cl1fo) ; Manchester (Literary
and Philosophical Society), Professor Schuster, F.R.S. ; Milan
(Reale Institute Lombardo di Scienxe e Lettere), General Annibale
Ferrejo ; Modena (Roya.1 Academy of Science, Letters, qnd Arts),
Genera} Annibale Ferrero ; Montreal (Canadian Society oj Civil
Engineers), James Ross, Esq. ; Moscow (Imperial Society of
Naturalists), Professpr Qumov; Munich (Der Kijnigliche Bayer-
ischen Akademie der Wissenschaften) ; Ne1vcasfle-pn-Tyne (Students
of Durham College of Science) ; New York (National Electric
Light Association of America), Thomas C. Martin, Esq. ; Paris
(Conservatoire National des Arts et Mitiers), Professor Violle ;

Philadelphia (American Philosophical Society), Dr. J. Cheston

Morris; Rome (Italian Society of Science), General Annibale

XXIII THE JUBILEE                         971

Ferrero ; Rome (R. Aceademia del Lincei), General Annibale
ferrero ; Rotterdam (Batavian Society of Experimental Philo
sophy), Dr. Elie van Rijckevorsel ; Scottish Amicable Life
Assurance Society, Colin Dunlop, Chairman ; Scottish Universities

(Students of the four), J. R. Hunter, Edinburgh University ;

Tokyo (former Students from Japan in Lord Kelvin's Cfass, now
at Tokyo) ; Vienna (Imperial Academy of Sciences) ; Washington
(National Academy of Sciences), Professor Simon Newcomb ;
Washington (Philosophical Society).

    It is impossible to give a.t length the te*t of all

the addresses mentioned in this list, but the follow

ing representative ones are of special interest :--

From the Royal Society

DEAR LORD KELVIN --The President, Council and Fellows

of the Royal Society desire on the happy occasion of the
Jubilee of your Professoriate in the University of Glasgow not
only to be represented, as they are, by their highest Officers

the President and Treasurer, but also to assure you, by some
direct words, of the warm sympathy of the whole Society.

There is no need to dwell on the many ways in which you

have contributed to that improvement of natural knowledge to

secure which the Society was founded, or on the many valuable

communications with which you have enriched the Society's

records. Since you first joined the Society, and the Jubilee of
that event is not far off, the Society has always known how

much your belonging to it has added to its strength : but it

has been especially during the recent five years, which went

too swiftly by, while you filled in so admirable a manner the

chair of President, that the Society has felt how close are the

ties which bind it to you and you to it.

We ask you to receive our heartiest congratulations on the

present glad event, and our warmest wishes for your welfare in

the years yet to come.  JOSEPH LISTER, President.

         From the Institution of Electrical Engineers

    We, the President, Council, and Members of the Institution
of Electrical Engineers, desire hereby to offer to your Lordship
our sincere and hea.rty congratulations on the occasion of the
Jubilee of your Professorship of Natural Science in the Uni
versity of Glasgow. It will ever be a source of pride and satis
faction to this Institution, that one who occupies so pre-eminent

972  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

a position in the scientific world should have been its First
President in 1889, besides having been an original member
and President in 1874 of the same Association when it existed
under the name of the Society of Telegraph Engineers. Not
only have you contributed more than any other living man to
our knowledge of the laws of nature, but you have found time

to perfect practical applications of Science, wherefrom every
branch of the Electrical Engineering Profession has derived
special benefit. We desire, in conclusion, to express our fervent

wish that you may continue for many years to enjoy the blessing
of good health, and that Science may still further benefit from

your labours.

                                              J. HOPKINSON, President.

                                                       F. H. WEBB, Secretary.

    From the British Association for the Advancement
                                 of Science

    MY LORD-- The Council of the British Association for the

Advancement of Science desire to offer to you their sincere
congratulations on the completion of the fiftieth year of your

tenure of the Professorship of Natural Philosophy in the Uni
versity of Glasgow.

    It is unnecessary to recount the triumphs you have won

during the last half-century in mastering the difficulties which
beset the advance of scientific theory and experiment, and in
applying scientific principles to the practical service of man.
The record of your achievements is fresh in the minds of those
who address you, and can never be effaced from the history of
the development of mathematical and experimental physics, of
engineering, and of navigation. We would rather therefore

recall the long and close connection which has existed between

the British Association and yourself.

    A regular attendant at our meetings, you have not only

enriched our reports with many important papers, but have en
couraged the efforts of younger men by never-failing sympathy

and interest in their work.

    You have been President of the Mathematical and Physical
Section of the Association no less than five times. You were
President of the Association at Edinburgh in 1871, and have
since then been a Life Member of our Council.

     As colleagues, then, we wish to tell you of the pride with

which we, in common with all your fellow-countrymen, regard
your distinguished career; and of the feelings of personal

attachment with which we express the hope that you may long

xxm THE JUBILEE  973

be spared to enjoy in health and strength the honours you have
so nobly won.

                         Signed on behalf of the Council,

                                                                        DOUGLAS GALTON.

    The address from the University of Edinburgh
contained the following passage :--

     We know not whether most to admire in you the acute
Mathematician, the unwearied Investigator of Physical Problems,
the skilled Electrician, or the resourceful Engineer ; to you in
all of these capacities is due the success of Long-line Submarine
Telegraphy, with the innumerable benefits resulting from the
power of practically instantaneous communication between all
parts of the globe.

     We are grateful for the lustre which your brilliant discoveries
have shed upon our Scottish Universities, and we are proud to
number you among our Colleagues.

         From the Master and Fellows of Peter house,
                                        Cambridge

   To THE RIGHT HONOURABLE LORD KELVIN --We, the Master

and Fellows of Peterhouse, on the occasion of the Jubilee of
your Professorship of Natural Philosophy in the University of
Glasgow, desire to express our profound admiration of the
splendid discoveries in physical science, and of the valuable
scientific inventions, which have characterised the tenure of

your professorship and have conferred signal benefits upon the
whole civilised world ; as well as our gratification and pride that
your name, so indissolubly connected with the progress of
science in the nineteenth century, should have been for a period
of fifty-five years closely connected with this ancient college
as Student, Scholar, Fellow, again Fellow honoris causa and

Benefactor.

     We recall with pleasure your noble enthusiasm as an under
graduate in the pursuit of your mathematical studies, and your
important contributions to scientific journals, which led our late
Master, Dr. Cookson, and your private Tutor, Mr. W. Hopkins,
also a distinguished member of the College, at that early period
of your career to predict your future eminence in science, and
your keen interest in manly sports shown by your success as an
oarsman in winning the Colquhoun Sculls, and in rowing in the
College boat, which then occupied the second place on the river.

    Many of us, students in your Natural Philosophy Class in

974  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

the University of Glasgow, have enjoyed the privilege of listening
to your inspiring lectures ; all of us, as your colleagues in the
governing body of Peterhouse, have warmly appreciated your

unfailing courtesy, wise counsels and generous sympathy with
all that concerns the welfare of the College. We bear in grate
ful remembrance your munificence on the occasion of the
celebration of the Six Hundredth Anniversary of the foundation
of our most ancient House.

     We fervently pray that your connection with the College may
long continue.

    In testimony whereof, we have attached our common seal
this thirteenth day of June, in the year of our Lord, One

thousand eight hundred and ninety-six.

     From the Students of the University of Glasgow
    MY LORD -- In the name of the Students of the University

of Glasgow we desire to offer you our sincere and hearty con
gratulations on the occasion of your Jubilee as Professor of
Natural Philosophy in our University. While we feel it needless
to dwell upon your pre-eminence in the world of science, and
would not presume to speak of that genius which has enriched

humanity by so many brilliant discoveries, we ask, simply as
your students, to be allowed to take our part in the universal

Congratulation at this time.
    We rejoice to have an opportunity of expressing in your

presence a feeling of affectionate regard no less strong than the
admiration to which others besides ourselves are to-day giving

voice.

     Above all we desire to refer to your long unbroken connection

with our University) a connection which must be endeared to

you by many precious memories, and has been to successive
generations of students a source of grateful pride. We are

proud to think that, year after year, and decade after decade,
our University has shared in your ever-increasing fame, and
that for so long a period it has been her happiness to retain in
her midst one whom all nations have delighted to honour.

    The last address that was presented was from

   The Senatus Academicus of the University of Glasgow
    MY LORD --The rejoicings which have been arranged to

celebrate the close of your fiftieth session betoken the admira
tion and affection with which you are regarded by your colleagues
in the Senate, but it is none the less fitting that on this auspicious

XXIII THE JUBILEE 975

occasion these feelings should find articulate expression in an
address of congratulation.

     The fifty years during which you have occupied the chair of
Natural Philosophy in this University have to an extent un
paralleled in the history of the world been marked by brilliant
discoveries in every department of Physical Science, and by
the prompt adaptation of many of these discoveries to meet the
practical needs of mankind. We recognise with admiration that
in both these respects you have been a leader of the age in
which we live. . . . But only your colleagues in University work
are in a position to appreciate the versatility of faculty, the
exhaustless energy, and the tenacity of purpose which have
enabled you to grapple successfully with problems the most
varied, and to reveal to us on every side the reign of order and
law. In the midst of all, you have endeared yourself to us by
the graces of your personal character, notably by that simplicity
which, unmarred by honours or success, remains the permanent
possession of transcendent genius, and by that humility of spirit
which, the clearer the vision of truth becomes, bows with the
lowlier reverence before the mystery of the universe.

    My Lord, the contemplation of a past so rich in achieve
ments and honours encourages your colleagues to look forward
to the future in the hope that you may have health and strength
to win new triumphs in years to come, and long to remain
among us the ornament and the glory of our ancient University.

    Then followed the giving of degrees. In the
absence of Principal Caird, through illness, Sir
William Gairdner, K.C.B., Professor of the Practice

of Medicine, occupied the chair in the earlier part

of the meeting during the presentation of Addresses,

and also conferred the degree of LL;D. upon Lord

Kelvin, who then took the chair and conferred the

degree of LL. D. on the following :--

     Professor Cleveland Abbe, Washington ; Professor Christian
Christiansen, Copenhagen ; Professor Per Theodor Cleve,

Upsala ; General Annibale Ferrero, Ambassador from H.M. the
King of Italy; Professor Izidor Frohlich, Buda-Pest; Professor
Gabriel Lippmann, La Sorbonne, Paris; Professor Archibald

Liversidge, Sydney ; Professor feleuthere Mascart, College de
France ; Professor Henri Moissan, Paris ; Professor Simon

976 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

Newcomb, Baltimore ; Professor Nicolas Oumov,        Moscow ;
Professor Emile Picard, Paris : Professor Georg      Quincke,

Heidelberg ; Professor Woldemar Voigt, Gottingen.

Lord Kelvin then said :--

The University of Glasgow is honoured by the

presence to-day of many distinguished visitors from

distant countries, from America, from India, from

Australia, and from all parts of the United Kingdom.

Names of men renowned for their scientific work in

foreign lands have been added to our list of honorary

graduates. That I have had the honour of conferring

these degrees in the name of the University is a subject

of keenest regret to all here present, because it is due

to the absence of Principal Caird, on account of illness.

We hope that the beginning of next session will see him

at home in the University with thoroughly recovered

health. In his absence the duty of conferring degrees

has fallen, according to University law, on me as senior

Professor present.

    I am also one of the recipients of the degrees, and,

in the name of all who have to-day been created Doctors

of Laws of the University of Glasgow, I thank the Senate

for the honour which we have thus received on the

occasion of  the  Jubilee  of my professorship. For   myself,
              no   words    to express my feelings   on this
I can find
occasion. My fifty happy years of life and work as

Professor of Natural Philosophy here, among my students

and my colleagues of the University, and my many kind

friends in the great city of Glasgow, call for gratitude ;
I cannot think of them without heartfelt gratitude. But

now you heap coals of fire on my head. You reward

me for having enjoyed for fifty years the privilege of

spending my time on the work most congenial to me

and in the happiest of surroundings.

    You could not do more for me if I had spent my life

in hardships and dangers, fighting for my country, or

struggling to do good among the masses of our popula

tion, or working for the benefit of the people in public

xxm THE JUBILEE 977

duty voluntarily accepted. I have had the honour to

receive here to-day a gracious message from His Royal

Highness the Prince of Wales, and addresses from sister

universities in all parts of the world ; from learned

societies, academies, associations, and institutions for the

advancement of pure and applied science ; from muni

cipal corporations and other public bodies ; from sub

marine telegraph companies, and from their officers, my

old comrades in their work ; from students, professors,
and scientific workers of England, Scotland, and Ireland,

and other countries, including my revered and loved St.

Peter's College, Cambridge.

I have had an address also from my twenty Baltimore

Coefficients of 1884. The term "coefficients" is abused
by mathematicians. They use it for one of the two

factors of the result. To me the professor and his class

of students are coefficients, fellow-workers, each con

tributing to whatever can possibly be done by their daily

meetings together.  I dislike the term lecture applied
here. I prefer the French expression " conference."
                                                        I

feel that every meeting of a professor with his students

should be rather a conference than a pumping-in of

doctrine from the professor, perhaps ill understood and

not well received by his students. The Scottish Uni

versities have enabled us to carry out this French idea

of conference. I think in every one of his classes the

professor is accustomed to speak to his students, some

times in the form of viva voce examination, and oftener,

I hope, in the manner of interchange of thoughts, the

professor discovering whether or not the student is

following his lecture, and the student, by showing what

he knows or does not know, helping the professor through

his treatment of the subject.

I have had interesting and kindly addresses from

my old Japanese students of Glasgow University, now

professors in the University of Tokyo, or occupying posts

in the Civil Service and Engineering Service of Japan.

I wish particularly also to thank my Baltimore Coefficients

for their address. They have been useful to myself in my

578 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

own keen endeavour -- unsuccessful, I must say, neverthe
less keen- -- to find out something definite arid clear about

light and ether and crystals.
     The addresses which I have received to-day contaih

liberal and friendly appreciation of all my mathematical
and physical papers, beginning in 1 840 and ending- --
not yet I hope. The small proportion of that long series
of writings which has led to some definite advancement of

science is amply credited for its results. A larger part,

for which so much cannot be said, is treated with un
failing and sympathetic kindness as a record of persever

ing endeavour to see below the surface of matter. It has

been carried on in the faith that the time is to come

when much that is now dark in physical science shall be

seen bright and clear, if not by ourselves, by our suc

cessors in the work.

    I am much gratified by the generous manner in which

these addresses have referred to the practical applications
of science in my work for submarine telegraphy ; my
contributions to the advancement of theoretical and
practical knowledge of the tides ; my improvement iri
the oldest and next oldest of scientific aids to navigation

--the sounding plummet and the mariner's compass ;

and my electric measuring instruments for scientific
laboratories, for the observation of atmospheric electricity,
and for electric engineering.

     I now ask the distinguished men who have honoured

me by presenting to me these addresses, to accept for
themselves personally, and for the societies represented
by them, my warmest thanks for the great treasure which

I have thus received -- goodwill, kindness, friendship,

sympathy, encouragement for more work^-a treasure of
which no words can adequately describe the Value.

     I cordially thank the French Academy of Sciences
for their great kindness in sending me by the hands of
my loved and highly esteemed colleague, Mascart, the
Arago Medal of the Institute of France.

     I thank all present in this great assembly for thfeir
kindness, which touches me deeply ; and I thank the City

xxni THE JUBILEE

arid University of Glasgow for the crowning honour of
my life which they have conferred on me by holding a
commemoration of the Jubilee of my professorship.

                       Professor Mascarfs Address

    Professor Mascart, who was the delegate of

the College de France and of the Acaddmie des

Sciences, Paris, at the Jubilee, had intended to make

the following speech when presenting the Arago
Medal. He afterwards gave his manuscript to
Lady Kelvin, and said that he had been too much

touched by the ceremony to be able to deliver his

address :--

    MILORD ET CHER CONFRERE -- L'Acade'mie des Sciences de

Paris, dans laquelle vous etes aujourd'hui le doyen des associe's
Strangers, a voulu se joindre aux savants de tous les pays du
monde, k vos admirateurs, k vos amis, pour vous apporter des
felicitations chaleureuses k 1'occasion du cinquantenaire de votre
arrived comme professeur k PUniversite' de Glascou que vous avez
tant illustrfe

    II y a quelques mois, 1'Institut de France cdtebrait le centierrie

ahniversaire de sa fondation, ou plutot de la reconstitution des
anciennes Academies sur des bases plus larges. Nous ne
pouvons oublier 1'e'le'vation de langage avec laquelle le President
de la Socie'td Royale de Londres vint alors traduire les sentiments
de cordialit^ de cette grande et cdlebre Institution.

      Dans une autre re'iinion, ou vous parliez en votre nom
personnel, voiis noUs avez caus6 une profonde e'motion en
declarant que vous aviez une dette de reconnaissance envers
notre pays, que nos grands esprits tels que Fourier, Laplace et
Sadi Carnot avaient the vos inspirateurs et que vous conside'riez
la France comme Valma 'mater de votre jeunesse sciehtifique.

      Si la dette existe, vous 1'avez pay^e avec usure. Dans la
longue sdrie de travaux et de de'couvertes qui galonnent votre
admirable carriere, une des plus nobles que Ton puisse rever,
vous avez abord£ toutes les questions de cette science k laquelle
la litte'rature anglaise conserve le beau nom de "philosophic
naturelle," soil pour contribuer aux progres des conceptions
thgoriques, soit pour en d£duire des applications utiles au
deVeloppement de 1'industrie et au bien de 1'humanite'.

980 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

     Quoi que 1'avenir reserve au genie inventif de 1'esprit humain,
votre nom restera comme ayant l& le guide le plus sur dans une

epoque fe'conde et le veritable educateur de la ge'ne'ration actuelle

dans le domaine de 1'electricite.

    Je suis particulierement heureux que I'Academie des Sciences

m'ait confie le soin de vous remettre une me'daille d'or a 1'effigie

d'Arago, me'daille qu'elle reserve pour rendre hommage aux

services  "exLcaeupdteiosnndealms usrenpodsutseri  a    la science  et qui porte cette
devise :                                              gloriam."

Vos confreres de 1'Institut de France esperent que vous

voudrez considerer ce souvenir comme un temoignage de haute

estime et de leurs sentiments les plus affectueux.

Dans une circonstance a laquelle je faisais tout a 1'heure

allusion, vous avez rapped aussi qu'au debut de votre carriere

vous aviez fr&juente' les laboratoires du College de France, oil
les professeurs de cette dpoque, Biot, Liouville et Victor

Regnault accueillirent avec empressement le jeune homme dont

les premieres publications faisaient dejcl prevoir le brillant

avenir.

    L'Assemble de Professeurs du College a bien voulu, par une

deliberation spdciale, me confier la mission de vous te'moigner

le prix qu'elle attache a ce souvenir en vous apportant le tribut

de ses cordiales felicitations.

    J'ai encore comme President actuel de la Societe d'En-
couragement pour 1'Industrie Nationale, a vous traduire les
hommages de cette association, fondle a 1'origine du siecle et

qui a pour but de faciliter 1'application des de'couvertes scien-

tifiques aux progres industriels.

    II y a deux ans, la Societe avail 1'honneur de vous de"-

cerner 1'une de ses plus hautes recompenses, par 1'attribution

d'une me'daille de platine a 1'effigie d'Ampere. Vous estimerez

sans doute que les figures d'Arago et d'Ampere, placets cote a

cote dans la collection de vos Serins, ne s'y trouveront pas en

mauvaise compagnie, de mfime que les deux savants ont etc"

associes de si pres dans leurs immortelles de'couvertes.
    Enfin vous avez eu a diverses reprises 1'occasion de te'moigner

une bienveillance particuliere a la Societe Internationale des

Electriciens en assistant a quelques-unes de ses stances et en

honorant de votre concours le Congres de 1889.
    La Socie'te m'a prie d'etre son interprete dans la circonstance

actuelle, pour vous exprimer ses sentiments de reconnaissance,

son admiration pour vos travaux, et pour vous offrir des res-

pectueux hommages.

XXIII THE JUBILEE 981

    On the evening of Tuesday, June 16, Lord
Kelvin was entertained by the Corporation and

University of Glasgow at a Banquet in St. Andrew's

Hall. After dinner, Sir James Bell, Bart., the
Lord Provost, who presided, read a message from
the Queen as follows :--

    The Queen commands me to beg that you will kindly ex
press to Lord Kelvin Her Majesty's sincere congratulations on
the occasion of the Jubilee of his professorship in the Glasgow
University. Her Majesty trusts that many years of health and
prosperity may be in store for him and Lady Kelvin. The
Queen is particularly gratified at the presence of so many
eminent representatives from all countries of the world, who
have come to do honour to your distinguished guest.

                                                  ARTHUR BIGGE, on behalf of
                                                            HER MAJESTY.

    The Lord Provost, on rising to propose the
toast of the evening, said --

We have received one or two cable messages which I have

been    desired to   read.     They are    addressed   to Lord Kelvin.
      first is from  Toronto,   and reads  as follows  : " The Councils
The

of the University of Toronto and of University College offer you

their heartiest congratulations on your attainment of your fiftieth

year of your professorship, and they earnestly wish that you

may   bQesuoelbosenicggntahslpelyareredpisrotomonoestee: rdv".e--I ssJc.einednLcoemu, odsowtnh,cooserdPiraaeldsivdcaeonnnctge.r"mateunlatTtihoyenouns
have

from

on this occasion. Your illustrious fifty years' services have been
of great profit to science. -- La Flamme."
                                            "  Another telegram,
just received from Moscow, is addressed :
                                               Tcoongthraetuclaetlieobnrsa.t--ed
Lord Kelvin, famous, learned, we send our

The Moscow University students." In addition to these

telegrams, I have been requested to say that numerous letters

have been received expressing, on behalf of the writers, regret
Iat inability to be present at these celebrations.
                                                       have one from

Lord Salisbury expressing his great regret. Mr. Campbell has

intimated one that   he has    had from Sir John Gorst, and there
are many others.               to read one from Principal Caird.
                     I wish
INeed say how greatly we all regret the cause by which we are

unavoidably deprived of his presence, and of the matchless

               LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                       CHAP.

eloquence with which he would have presented the toast which

in his absence falls to me to-night.

   I know how far more deeply than can be expressed in words

our beloyed Principal grieves over his inability to be with us

to-night, but we confidently hope that he may soon again be

restored to health.              Gentlemen, --The       toast that    I  have
     Ladies, my Lords, and                                is that of     Lord
                                 for your acceptance                  "
now the honour to propose

Kelvin, and hearty congratulations on the attainment of his

professorial   Jubilee."  These congratulations are manifold and
               come from  all European countries ; they come from
great -- they

India and our Colonies, from across the Atlantic, from the

great  scientific societies and  from   thwe halet adiisngfosrcieunstistsunioqfueto---dathye;
and,   in this City we are       doing

University and City authorities are joining hand in hand to

show, in the strongest manner possible, our intense admiration

and appreciation of Lord Kelvin and his work. A great social

and commercial revolution dates from August 1858, when the

message was signalled under the ocean, "Europe and America

are united by telegraphic communication. Glory to God in the

highest, on earth peace and goodwill towards men."

    To almost every branch of scientific research Lord Kelvin
has given contributions of inestimable value. In regard to the
laws of heat, he has been one of the greatest discoverers ; while,

through the perfecting of the compass and improving the means
of sounding, the risk of loss of life or vessel has been so mini

Imized that I do not think I am overstating the case when
say that these two discoveries have saved thousands of lives,
and millions pf pounds worth of property.

Lord Kelvin's discoveries arid appliances have world -wide

use, from the most complicated and delicate instrument to im
provements on the simplest form of mechanism. His industry

is unwearied, and he seems to           take   rest by  turning from one
                                         that   would   appal most men,
difficulty to another -- difficulties

and be taken, as enjoyment by no one else. Hut what has been

the result of these great gifts of genius, coupled with this
industry ? They have resulted ir\ a. lifetime of discoveries fraught

with good ; year by year something has been accomplished ;

paper after paper that are standards on their subject-matter have

been written until we are lost in amazement at what has been

done. While concurrently with this active productivity his

lordship's university classes have been carefully carried on. How
many students in these fifty years of Jubilee have been fired
with their teacher's enthusiasm we can never know, but from

this class many have gone who have attained great distinction,

xxm THE JUBILEE 983

and who look back with pride and pleasure to the days passed in
the Natural Philosophy class-room of Glasgow University.

My Lords and Gentlemen, it is given to few men to labour

in one place for fifty years ; it is given to almost none to do so

with the distinction achieved by our guest, a distinction now

so great that  he may justly be called  thtehegreBaateltsimt olirveinglescctuiernetsi--st.
                has given in America
Lord Kelvin

lectures not given to students but to professors. He was a
member of the Niagara Commission. He has been awarded
honours innumerable and of every kind from learned societies in
the Old World and the New, and, as you know, he has just de-

mitted the office of President of the Royal Society, after a term

of office marked by the greatest brilliancy. This life of un

wearied industry, of universal honour, has left Lord Kelvin with

a lovable nature that charms all with whom he comes in contact.

Lord Kelvin, indeed, inspires love and reverence in all. His

home life is love and melody. His helpmate is worthy of him,

and greater cannot be said. Those who have the great privilege

of their friendship, with fervent prayer, will in their hearts add to

the toast the wish that Lord and Lady Kelvin may long be spared

to one another.

    Lord Kelvin, who on rising to reply was greeted
with prolonged applause, said :--

    First of all, I desire to express the deep and heartfelt
gratitude with which I have heard the most kind and gracious

message from Her Majesty the Queen, which has been read to

us by the Lord Provost. But I cannot find words for thanks.
I can only, on the part of Lady Kelvin and myself, tender an

expression of our loving loyalty to the Queen. My Lord

Provost, my Lords, and Gentlemen, I thank you with my whole

heart for your kindness to me this evening. You have come

here to commemorate the Jubilee of my University professorship,

and I am deeply sensible of the warm sympathy with which you

have received the kind expressions of the Lord Provost regarding
myself in his review of my fifty years' service, and his most
friendly appreciation of practical results which, have come from

my scientific work.

   I might perhaps rightly feel pride in knowing that the Uni

versity and City of Glasgow have joined in conferring on me

tdfhraieeyn-ldgasrbeoaautnrdehrsosnooinumrasncoyief ndchiesotli--dnignhugaisvhetehdiscommJueebnil--eferf,orimenadnnsdeaartnhadat ncdsoomframardaentsoy,

assist in its celebrations, and that congratulations and good

984  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                 CHAP.

wishes have poured in on me by letter and telegram from all

parts of the world. I do feel profoundly grateful. But when
I think how infinitely little is all that I have done I cannot feel
pride ; I only see the great kindness of my scientific comrades,

and of all my friends in crediting me for so much.

One word characterises the most strenuous of the efforts for
the advancement of science that I have made perseveringly
                                                                I know no
during fifty-five years ; that word is FAILURE.

more of electric and magnetic force, or of the relation between

Iether, electricity, and ponderable matter, or of chemical affinity,

than knew and tried to teach to my students of natural

philosophy fifty years ago in my first session as Professor.

Something of sadness must come of failure ; but in the pursuit

of science, inborn necessity to make the effort brings with it

much of the ccrtaminis gaudia, and saves the naturalist from

being wholly miserable, perhaps even allows him to be fairly

happy in his daily work.

And what splendid compensation for philosophical failures

we have had in the admirable discoveries by observation and

experiment on the properties of matter, and in the exquisitely

beneficent applications of science to the use of mankind with

which these fifty years have so abounded ! You, my Lord
Provost, have remarked that I have had the good fortune to
remain for fifty years in one post. I cordially reply that for
Ime they have been happy years.
                                    cannot forget that the

happiness of Glasgow University, both for students and pro

fessors, is largely due to the friendly and genial City of Glasgow,
in the midst of which it lives. To live among friends is the

primary essential of happiness ; and that, my memory tells me,

we inhabitants of the University have enjoyed since first I came

to live in it (1832) sixty-four years ago. And when friendly
neighbours confer material benefits, such as the citizens of

Glasgow have conferred on their University in so largely helping

to give it its present beautiful site and buildings, the debt of

happiness due to them is notably increased.
   I do not forget
                     the  charms    ofrfomthetheold"   college  in the   High
Street and Vennel,  not   very far                    comforts   of the   Salt-
market." Indeed, I remember well when, in 1839, the old

Natural Philosophy class-room and apparatus-room (no physical
laboratory then) was almost an earthly paradise to my youthful
mind ; and the old College Green, with the ideal memories of
Osbaldistone and Rashleigh and their duel, created for it by
Sir Walter Scott, was attractive and refreshing to the end. But

density of smoke and of crowded population in the adjoining

lanes increased, and the pleasantness, healthiness, and convenience

xxm THE JUBILEE                                                          985

of the old college, both for students and professors, diminished
year by year. If, my Lord Provost, your predecessors of the
Town Council, and the citizens of Glasgow, and well-wishers to

the city and its University all over the world, and the Govern

ment, and the great railway company that has taken the old

college, had left us undisturbed on our ancient site, I don't

believe that attractions elsewhere would have taken me away

from the old college ; but I do say that twenty-five of the fifty
years of professorship which I have enjoyed might have been
less bright and happy, and I believe also less effective in respect

to scientific work, than they have been with the great advantages
with which the University of Glasgow has been endowed since

its migration from the High Street.

   My Lord Provost, I ask you to communicate to your

colleagues of the Town Council my warmest thanks for their

great kindness to me in joining to celebrate this  Jubilee. Your
                                                   you all for the
Excellency, my Lords and Gentlemen, I thank
kind manner in which you have received the toast of my health

proposed by the Lord Provost, and for your presence this

evening to express your good wishes for myself.

    Professor Sir W. T. Gairdner, in proposing the
toast of the Representatives present from other
Universities and learned bodies, spoke of Lord
Kelvin's personal character as it had appeared to
his colleagues, and said :--

   I feel very strongly that all that has been said of the scientific

eminence of Lord Kelvin, and of his innumerable and most

remarkable discoveries in science, leaves still without emphasis

one point about him which only those who have been in close

association  wchitahrachtimer--cahnis  appreciate, and that is  his  childlike
humility of                            very remarkable power    of   inspiring

affection as well as esteem, his interest and sympathy with every

one who is related to him in any way whatever.

His Excellency General Annibale Ferrero,

Lord Lister, and Professor Simon Newcomb of

Washington responded to this toast ; and among
the later speakers were Professor Story, the Earl

of Rosse, Sheriff Berry, and Sir Henry Roscoe.
VOL. II
                                                                     2D

986  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN       CHAP.

    The Italian  Ambassador's  speech was as
follows :--

    MESSIEURS -- Lorsque l'on m'a fait l'honneur de me charger

de prendre la parole au nom de tant d'hommes illustres, j'ai
pense que ce serait une grande te'me'rite' de ma part que
d'accepter un role qui aurait convenu a des illustrations dont le
nom a deja une place dans l'bistoire de la science. Cependant
j'ai pens6 que j'avais l'honneur de representer la patrie des
grands pr&lecesseurs de Lord Kelvin, tels que Galilee, Volta,
et Galvani. En venant representer les institutions scientifiques

ide nos pays respectifs, nous avons avant tout voulu rendre

hommage l'homme de genie dont on celebre le jubile et a
l'Universite' de Glascou qui a la gloire de le posseder. Mais

notre presence est aussi pour prouver que le monde scientifique
tout entier veut prendre sa part de l'honneur que Lord Kelvin a
rendu a la race humaine. La lumiere qui resplendit aujourd'hui
sur I'Universit^ de Glascou est comme celle du soleil. Elle

n'appartient pas a un seul pays, mais s'etend sur toute I'humanite'.
Nous devons des remerciments speciaux a l'illustre professeur
Gairdner pour la sante qu'il vient de porter aux representants

des institutions scientifiques. Nous devons payer un tribut de
v:vo reconnaissance a la ville et a l'Universite' de Glascou pour
l'accueil si cordial et honorifique qui nous a ete' accorded C'est

avec le plus grand sentiment d'admiration que nous avons assist^
a ce jubile' vraiment grandiose, digne de I'Universite' qui l'a
organise, et du grand homme qui en a 6t l'objet. Le spectacle
sublime auquel nous avons assist^ ce matin a autant ek\v notre

esprit que touch6 notre coeur. Je ne puis mieux exprimer

notre pensee comme qu'en disant que nous avons assist^ a

l'apoth^ose de la science. Je veux finir en exprimant le voeu
le plus chera l'Universite' de Glascou et a nous-memes, c'est-k-

dire que la Providence, laquelle lui a confi6 dans la personne
de Lord Kelvin un tresor incalculable, lui conserve pour des
longues annees ce tresor precieux k l'humanite toute entiere.

    The University Senate had arranged that the

celebrations should terminate on Wednesday with a
sail through some of the more picturesque parts

of the Clyde. A company of about two hundred

and fifty, including Lord and Lady Kelvin and a
large number of the delegates and visitors, were

xxm THE JUBILEE                                        987

conveyed by special trains to Greenock, where they

embarked on board the steamer Glen Sannox. The

route followed was by Largs and Millport, and then
northwards along the western coast of the Island of
Bute, through the Kyles, and thence homeward.

     Perhaps the most striking thing about the Jubilee
of Lord Kelvin was its spontaneity ; indeed the
absence of officials from the ceremonies was the

cause of comment at the time. A writer in the

Saturday Review, drawing a comparison between
the careers of Lord Kelvin and of von Helmholtz,
each of whom had lived to celebrate his Jubilee,

pointed out the difference between England and
Germany in the public estimation in which science

is held and honoured :--

Though it is the fact that Lord Kelvin and von Helmholtz

were each honoured by a title of nobility, the difference in the

recognition is truly striking. It was not until Sir William

Thomson began to dabble in politics that the great and wise and

eminent in official circles discovered those transcendent claims to

recognition which had long been patent in the world of science.

Whereas the German Emperor, in conferring a patent of nobility

upon von Helmholtz, specially commented on his abstention

from intermeddling with political questions.
    At the Helmholtz Jubilee in 1891, the ceremonials in Berlin

were marked by the presence of two Secretaries of State, the

Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Education. Thus

did Germany set her official approbation upon the honours

acclaimed by the assembled representatives of science. At the
Kelvin Jubilee official recognition seems to have been studiously
withheld. Neither the Lord President of Council nor the

Secretary of State for Scotland put in an appearance.  The

Chancellor of the University of Glasgow was conspicuous by his

  The  Prince of Wales,    twhheo,Soivnertehiegna, bwseanscedetoafinpeodlit"icbayl
might  have represented
...absence.
                           in the south." . . . The King
officials,
long-standing engagements

of Italy could send an Ambassador. But Italy is one of those

countries where science is honoured for its own sake.

988             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                                                 CHAP.

    The following contemporary narrative from
the pen of his grand-niece Miss Margaret E.
Gladstone adds a few graphic details :--

    The Graduation ceremony next morning was the best of all

ast--lihdteuedsadrenleofsdnuswtens,tsc"htewianohnfnridoslwem.ewdhhaeanlaIwltdaUpyabanercttgLhslaaeentoiWtnfimibtlphlyeireaamytbwheyerocraslaidmpnngr--edeinsig(enaa,nt"tlea"lJettoatiHoelslentryrefbGrooeofamfoodorpetvoheFoeretrhllaPoebtrw,iuignfhtcf"hete)yer,

of Wales. The gowns and uniforms of the delegates were most

varied and gorgeous : the foreigners came first, and then the

representatives of the various British Universities and learned
societies, and of the students of different Universities ; each man

with his roll or book tucked away under his arm. Each one
shook hands with Uncle William and some of them made little

speeches. Mascart, who brought several Addresses from France,

and the Arago gold medal, had prepared a nice little speech, but

was too touchi to say anything when it came to the time. He

and Moissan     and Max-Muller wore the     French   Agcraoduenmdi--ciaanns'd
                palm-leaves embroidered on  a black
dress -- green

looked very fetching. The Lille professors had orange gowns ;

but the most gorgeous of all was the Italian Ambassador, with
rows of orders across his uniform.

    After the addresses, Professor Gairdner gave Uncle William
the LL.D. of Glasgow (how pleased old Macpherson, the
janitor, must have been to put on his hood which was quite
     is
             it

                                   it,
                                                             a

                                                           a
                                                                                a
                                                                                            !),

                                                        I
                                                                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                      a
illegal, for ought to have been conferred by the Chancellor,
Lord Stair, or the Vice -Chancellor, Principal Caird, both

of whom were away ill, or, after them, by the Senior Professor,

who  Uncle William himself. However, he took the chair

after that, and did the capping of the foreigners who got

degrees. The students made  little banging each time the

velvet cap descended, and shouted out few remarks but on

the whole they were remarkably quiet and suppressed. Sir

Joseph Hooker told us he missed the pea-shooting which went

on so much at the time he was fellow - student with James
and William Thomson in my great-grandfather's class. After the

capping Uncle William made his reply. Some of us were quite

afraid he was going to break down, he got so pale, and the effort

to find words seemed too much for him, but he drank little

water with whisky in and then got on all right.      thought his

speech was beautiful. So did every one.

xxII. THE JUBILEE                                             989

    In the evening the word " Failure " in which he characterized
the results of his best efforts seemed to ring through the hall
with half-sad, half-yearning emphasis. Some of the people tried

to laugh incredulously, but he was too much in earnest for that.

Yet at the same time it was not pessimistic, for it was so evident

what keen joy he had had in his work, and still has, and how

Iwarmly he feels the help and affection of his fellow-workers.

should think on the whole he has had as happy a life as any one

can, and happy because of his utter devotion to his work, and his

thoroughness in throwing himself into whatever is before him,

and constant readiness to learn.

   IAs for the students, am afraid they laughed, with good

cause, when he spoke of the ideal lecture as a conference, because

I always hear that he goes up in the heights when he is lecturing

to them, and pours forth speculations with great enthusiasm far

above their heads. They are, however, very fond of him : they

serenaded him at three o'clock in the morning of Tuesday, after

their rowdy Gaudeamus at the Union ; only, fortunately, he slept

through it. On Wednesday, when our steamer passed the one

on which they were all, on an excursion, and Uncle William got

up on our paddle-box to wave to them, the cheering and waving

were tremendous ; and they came up in the evening after that to

his house and he went out and gave a little speech, telling them

otoneg--o  back to   their work, for that was the best thing for every
           whereat
                    ttohehyavegroaajnoellidficaantidonho--wlwehder;eaatndthetyhact heiterehdadlusbteileyn.
good for them

In thinking over Uncle William's speeches, the tone in which

he gave them, and his quiet, serious, deferential look when praise

was heaped upon him,     dwell     in my memory.     There was some
thing pathetic about it            sort of wonder  that people should
                         all -- a

be so kind to him, and a wish that he had done more to deserve

it all.

   I forgot to say that at the close of the banquet  we  all  sang

" Auld Lang Syne " at Uncle William's request.

    Many of the scientific men went off that night or next day,
but a good number were left to go on the steamboat excursion

next day on the Glen Sannox. It pelted all the morning, but

we were very happy chattering under an awning or down in the
saloon ; and we could just see Netherhall looming through the
mist as we past it and fired off two guns. Then, while we were
down at lunch, it cleared up and we came up to find ourselves
close to Arran, with the most beautiful sunshine and cloud effects.

990 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

...We came back by the Kyles.    In the middle of the afternoon

some of them got up the Lancers on deck, and it was great fun to

...see Aunt Fanny leading off with Professor Ferguson, till a

sudden squall of rain came on, and they had to fly.

    Uncle William is simply marvellous : he is seventy-three, and
has been ill all winter and spring (I think, though, that being
kept partly a prisoner by his bad leg has been better for him than

rushing round society functions, and endless meetings), and yet

after all he had gone through, both of physical and mental (and
emotional) exertion in the past few days, and an Address from,
and a speech to, the Liberal Unionist Association that morning,

he was quietly alert, taking in all the Addresses, and all that

was going on in the bustle ; and then when we came in to

tea talking away with my father about chemical theories, and

about the terrible shipwreck there has been, and everything that

turned up.

The next day we came up with them in the same train. At the

last minute his green-book was left behind, so he had to content

himself with answering his telegrams (they had written twenty-two

telegrams before we lunched with them at Preston) and writing
letters to Quincke, Stokes, and James Bottomley on Rontgen
rays, etc. Then by 9 P.M. he was taking the chair at the Royal
Institution, and, as Aunt Fanny said, seemed better than before

he went down to Glasgow. He appreciated the beauty of the
                                          dI ewaal s--uitsincgermtayintlyimweaws elal
country too on the  way up, and  thought
by looking out of   the window   a good

perfect day, with blue sky and sunshine, and clouds to give rich

shadows, and then the grass and young corn such a bright green,

and the haymakers in the fields, and the hedges lovely with wild

roses.

   A week afterwards Lord Kelvin addressed to the

various persons who had sent letters or presented

felicitations, a lithographed autographic letter, as

follows :--

                                                  THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,
                                                           June 23, 1896.

     Lord Kelvin is much gratified by welcome letters
containing congratulations on the occasion of the Jubilee
of his Professorship, and highly valued good wishes, and
kind words, which have come to him from many friends.

xxm THE JUBILEE  991

He is very sorry that it is impossible for him to write in
reply to each. He desires now to express his heartfelt
thanks to all for the great kindness and sympathy which

he has received.

    Lord and Lady Kelvin were invited by Her
Majesty Queen Victoria to dinner at Windsor Castle
on Monday, July 13, 1896, and to remain until the
following day. The Marquis and Marchioness of

Dufferin and the Duke and Duchess of Argyll were
amongst the guests. After dinner they all sat in
the corridor, and one after another of the guests
was brought up to speak to Her Majesty, at her
request. When Lady Kelvin came to her she said
to her: " It is a long time since we have met, not

since we were at Inveraray Castle." That was in
1 87 5 (see p. 663). She then inquired how Lord Kelvin

had been. To Lord Kelvin she talked of his Jubilee.

They could not help noticing that the Queen was
very lame and infirm, and of failing eyesight.

    On Wednesday, July 15, Her Majesty held an
investiture at Windsor Castle, when she conferred
on Lord Kelvin the Grand Cross of the Royal
Victorian Order. As he approached the presence
to receive the decoration, H.R.H. the Duke of

Connaught whispered to the Queen that it was

Lord Kelvin. At once she said : " Lord Kelvin

must not kneel, it might hurt his leg."
    Later in the same afternoon Lord Kelvin

attended at the Victoria Institute to hear the
Address by Sir George Stokes.

992 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

    In commemoration of the centenary of Robert
Burns a statue of Mary Campbell (" Highland
Mary ") was unveiled by Lord Kelvin at Dunoon,
on August i, 1896.

    On August 12, returning to Largs with Lady
Kelvin, he was met at the railway station by the
Provost and Magistrates of that burgh, and pre
sented with an address of congratulation on his

recent Jubilee.

   A month later, Lord and Lady Kelvin were

staying at Knowsley during the meeting of the
British Association at Liverpool, under the presi
dency of Sir Joseph (afterwards Lord) Lister. Lord
Kelvin read three papers : one, an Attempt to
explain Chemical Affinities by Molecular Dynamics;
another (in association with two of his pupils), on
the Communication of Electricity from Steam to

Air; a third (in collaboration with J. T. Bottomley

and M. Maclean), on the Measurement of Electric
Currents through Air.

    All this autumn Lord Kelvin suffered at intervals

from acute facial neuralgia, seated in the " fifth

nerve," which he used to refer to as "the demon,"
or " number five." The attacks used to come on
very suddenly, and again suddenly departed. In
October he was kept in bed four days by a bad
attack. He was unable to be present at the annual

meeting of the Royal Society on November 30.
    On December 2 Lord Kelvin was admitted as

an Honorary Member of the Philosophical Society
of Glasgow, which he had joined as an ordinary

THE JUBILEE  993

member on December 2, 1846. An Address was

presented to him, and at the same time a bronze
bust of him was presented by a body of subscribers

to the Society ; a duplicate bust being presented to

Lady Kelvin. The same day there were unveiled,
in the staircase of the University, two memorial
tablets to Lord Sandford and to Professor Veitch.
Lord Kelvin, who presided at this ceremony, gave
recollections of his childhood, when Frank Sandford

and he used to play in the old College Green, and
make ships and sail them in the Molendinar Burn.
On December 21, Lord Kelvin was in Edinburgh,
communicating to the Royal Society of Edinburgh

a paper on the Electrification of Air by Rontgen

Rays. December 22 saw him in London, attending
the opening, by the Prince of Wales, of the Davy-
Faraday laboratories at the Royal Institution, en
dowed by Dr. Ludwig Mond.

    After his Jubilee Lord Kelvin had resumed his
University duties, and continued to experiment with
unabated zeal. On January 13, 1897, he gave an

evening public lecture at Glasgow University on
the Molecular Dynamics of a Crystal ; and within
a month read two papers dealing with crystalline
forms to the Royal Society of Edinburgh. He

gave several other papers to the same body on

various subjects, including osmotic pressures, a
subject in which he strongly opposed the views of
Ostwald, writing to Lord Rayleigh several diatribes
thereon. He was active, too, in other directions,

taking part in the Jubilee of Queen's College,

994  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

Belfast. He entertained Nansen when he visited

Glasgow in February to lecture on his Polar travels.
    Nature of March 25, 1897, contained a long

and interesting illustrated article on Lord Kelvin's

laboratory at the University, and on White's
Instrument Factory, where Lord Kelvin's instru
ments and compasses were made. James White,
the original owner of the optical business, had died

in 1884. His skill had been from the early days of
the mirror galvanometer of great assistance to Lord

Kelvin, who, when the manufacturing part of his

works had increased, had found the capital needed
for the business. The factory in Cambridge Street,
Glasgow, built in 1884, employed about 200 hands, be

sides a staff of trained electrical engineers in the test

ing department. At this date the managing partner
was Mr. David Reid, while Mr. James Ferguson

looked after the electrical instruments. Mr. Wm.

Bottom ley had the management of the Nautical
Department, but Lord Kelvin was daily about the

works giving detailed instructions to workmen or
foremen, and testing the adjustments of instruments

and the fitting of the parts. His usual programme,

when at home, was, after giving his secretary in

structions about his correspondence, and, on certain

mornings, lecturing to his class from 9 to 10, to walk
or drive into the town to White's, often remaining

there until time for a midday lecture, or for lunch.

    At this date appeared in Vanity Fair a rather

cruel portrait of Lord Kelvin, accompanied by a

terse but cordial appreciation.

xxin THE JUBILEE  995

     " He is so good a man," wrote the narrator, " that four
years ago he was most deservedly ennobled as Baron Kelvin
of Largs ; yet he is still full of wisdom, for his Peerage has
not spoiled him. He is a very great, honest, and humble
Scientist who has written much and done more. Yet,
with all his greatness, he remains a very modest man of

very charming manner."

     Lord Kelvin dined at the Royal Academy
banquet on May ist. Replying for Science, he said
he thought that if Raphael or Michael Angelo had

seen a photograph they would have been both
delighted and astonished. So much may be taken
for granted, but whether they would, as he opined,

have declared it to be "a masterpiece of art" is
quite open to question. He aroused a ripple of

laughter amongst the artists by telling them that
they owed a debt of gratitude to the men of science
who had proved to them that yellow and blue do

not make green, but that green is unquestionably a

primary sensation.
     On May 8 the Master of Peterhouse, Dr. Porter,

who had been a student at Glasgow in 1846, under
Lord Kelvin, was presented with a testimonial for
his services to the University and town of Cam

bridge ; and his portrait, painted by Ouless, was at
the same time presented to the College. Lord

Kelvin, as Senior Fellow of Peterhouse, received
the portrait on behalf of the College, and spoke
warmly of Dr. Porter, and of the efficiency that had

marked his administration.

    It was at this time that a very determined, but

unsuccessful attempt was made to induce the

996  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

University of Cambridge to open its degrees to
women. Girton and Newnham Colleges had now
been in successful operation for twenty years ; and
the promoters of the movement claimed that the

University would now be justified in granting the
titles of degrees to those women who were success
ful in the Tripos examinations, which had long been
open to them. The bulk of the resident members
of the Senate were certainly opposed to this step.
Lord Kelvin sided with the opponents, and became
chairman of a London Committee of Cambridge

graduates to resist the proposal.

    On May 21 Lord Kelvin gave a Friday evening
discourse at the Royal Institution, on the Contact
Electricity of Metals. He had worked actively at

this subject forty years before, and had employed

his electrometers to show the effect, discovered by
Volta, of bringing copper and zinc into contact and
then separating them, when they were found to be
oppositely electrified. For many years a great con
troversy had raged on the theory of the voltaic cell,
some attributing its operation to contact, others
(notably Faraday) to chemical action. Volta's experi
ment had then been discredited until Lord Kelvin's

electrometer experiments justified its truth. More
recently electricians, while accepting the fact, had
also sought to explain it as a chemical action. In

the 'eighties there was considerable controversy
as to this, Oliver Lodge maintaining that the
so-called contact force, of about one volt, was due

to the difference between the respective chemical

xxm SPEECH ON DEATH DUTIES 997

affinities of the oxygen of the air for zinc and for
copper. Lord Kelvin would never accept this idea,
but attributed it to that affinity of zinc and copper
for one another which is shown in their union to
form brass. With that curious impenetrability to
other men's ways of regarding things that was
characteristic of Lord Kelvin s mind, he could never
be brought to admit the cogency of Lodge's main
proposition,1 based as it was on the work which
Lord Kelvin himself had done in collaboration with
Joule in the 'fifties (see p. 401). He remained to
the last unconvinced. Part of his Royal Institution

lecture was directed to this point, and part to the
effect of the Becquerel rays emitted by uranium in

altering the apparent electrification due to contact.

    In the House of Lords, on May 28, 1897, Lord
Kelvin spoke against the imposition of death duties
upon works of art and collections of scientific instru
ments or of objects of natural history, the property
of private owners ; also private observatories, which
had been of the greatest benefit to astronomy. He

urged that in such cases the duty charged should
be merely nominal.

    The Age of the Earth as an Abode fitted for
Life was the subject of an address by Lord Kelvin
to the Victoria Institute on June 2, 1897. In
the Chapter on the Geological Controversy of

     1 The matter was further complicated by Lord Kelvin's method of defining
the potential of a conductor as the potential of a point in the air infinitely
close to its surface. This, as the present writer once pointed out in one of
the discussions, leads to a fallacious conclusion ; for then the difference of
potentials between copper and zinc in contact, if so defined, is quite different
from the true difference of potentials between the metals themselves.

998  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                              CHAP.

the years 1862-1871 (see pages 535-551 supra),
an account is given of Lord Kelvin's earlier argu

ments ; and on p. 94 1 is a brief notice of the revival
of the question in 1895. He now reiterated his
position in a reasoned address, which will be found

in the Transactions of the Victoria Institute for

1897, and is here summarized :--

     He first recapitulated the old arguments against the Uniformi-

tarian postulate of unlimited time; adding Sollas's recent estimate
of 17,000,000 years as the outside limit of time elapsed since
the beginning of the Cambrian epoch. He then referred to
newer knowledge as to fusion and conductivity of rocks, which

had narrowed his own earlier estimates down to something
between 20 and 40 millions of years, and to Clarence King's
independent estimate of 24 millions. Then, with a passing
fling at British weights and measures, he discussed the bearing
on the date of consolidation of the globe of recent measurements
on the fusion and solidification of diabase, granite, and basalt.

First, granite would crystallize out in a crust ; through the cracks
in this an upper crust of basalt would extrude. When this

oozing through cracks ceases, we have reached Leibnitz's con-
sistentior status with surface cool and solid, and an internal

temperature increasing to 1150° C. at 25, or 50, or 100 metres
down. The main features of great continents would become

fixed by the granitic formations in the lava ocean before its

consolidation. After solidification was reached at the surface,
cooling by radiation would continue. Condensation of vapours
in the atmosphere would produce lakes, seas, and rivers. But to

account for free oxygen in the air one must suppose vegetation
to have begun ; and only a few thousands, or perhaps hundreds
of thousands of years later would there be oxygen enough to
support animal life as we now know unless, indeed, the earth's

primitive atmosphere contained free oxygen. Certainly, sun
light were ready, the earth was ready both for vegetable and

animal life within few hundred centuries after the rocky con
solidation of its surface. But was the sun ready According to
the dynamical theory worked out by Helmholtz, Newcomb, and

himself, the sun was probably ready only 20 to 25 millions of years
ago. But to account for the commencement of life on the earth

mathematics and dynamics fail us. We must pause, face to face
with the mystery and miracle of the creation of living creatures.
     a
                                      it,

                                                                   ?

                                                          if

xxm THE AGE OF THE EARTH 999

This was the last pronouncement of Lord Kelvin

as to the age of the earth. But it is not the latest
pronouncement of science. The discovery by Curie

of the spontaneous evolution of heat from radium,

and the detection by others of small quantities of

radio-active materials in the crust of the earth, have

added the knowledge of another internal source

of heat.  Sir George Darwin has put * the matter

thus :--

The researches of Mr. Strutt on the radio-activity of rocks

prove that we cannot regard the earth simply as a cooling globe ;

and therefore Lord Kelvin's argument as to the age of the earth,

as derived from the observed gradient of temperature, must be

illusory. Indeed, even without regard to the initial temperature

of the earth acquired by secular contraction, it is hard to under
...stand why the earth is not hotter inside than it is.
                                                                 The

evidence, taken at its lowest, points to a period many times as
great as was admitted by Lord Kelvin for the whole history of

the solar system.

And       again     --2

                   :

   If we were still compelled to assent to the justice of Lord

Kelvin's views as to the period of time which has elapsed since
the earth solidified, and as to the age of the solar system, we
should also have to admit that the theory of evolution under

tidal influence is inapplicable to its full extent. . . . Lord Kelvin
contended that the actual distribution of land and sea proves

that the planet solidified at a time when the day had nearly its
present length. . . . The calculations contained in paper 9, the
plasticity of even the most refractory forms of matter under great
stresses, and the contortions of geological strata, appear, to me
at least, conclusive against Lord Kelvin's view.

    Sir George Darwin, whose researches on the

dynamics of the globe contain frequent references
to Lord Kelvin's researches, sums up the position

by saying : " If I dissent from some of his views, I

1 Scientific Papers, vol. ii., Preface, p. ix.  2 Ibid. p. vii.

1ooo  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

none the less regard him as amongst the greatest

of those who have tried to guess the riddle of the

history of the universe."

   A memorial subscription in honour of Sir John

Pender resulted in a gift of £5000 toward the
endowment of the laboratory and chair of electrical

engineering in University College, London. The
presentation to the college was made on July 2,
1897. Lord Kelvin, as a member of the Memorial
Committee, alluded feelingly to the work done by
Pender--his lifelong friend --for the success of the

Atlantic cables of 1858, 1865, and 1866, and in

afterwards founding the Eastern and the Eastern

Extension Telegraph Companies.
    The sixtieth year of Queen Victoria's reign was

celebrated on June 22, 1897, by a great procession
through London to St. Paul's Cathedral. In that
splendid and historic procession Lord Kelvin was

assigned no place : science, art, literature, and

learning were studiously ignored by the powers
that be, in the organization of that vast demonstra

tion of England's progress under her great Queen.
He was present on board the White Star liner

Teutonic to witness the Naval Review on June
26th ; and as a peer was invited to attend the
Military Review at Aldershot on July 1st.

    On June 28th he opened the Shoreditch municipal
electric lighting station, and praised the scheme for

utilizing refuse in the dust destructor. On July 2nd

he wrote to The Times warning the public against
the dangers of the so-called " dry shampoo." On

xxm UTILIZATION OF WATERFALLS                                         1001

the 1 5th he formed one of a deputation from the
Royal Society to present a congratulatory address
to Queen Victoria at Windsor ; and on the 29th

he visited the training ship H.M.S. Worcester, to

which he presented one of his standard compasses.
    On August 4th he visited Greenock to open a

carbon factory in connexion with the aluminium
works at the Falls of Foyers. Some remarks which

he made on this occasion evoked much comment :--

There was one splendid application of the electric furnace in

Scotland at the Falls of Foyers. That magnificent piece of work

of the Aluminium Company was the beginning of something that

would yet transform the whole social economy of countries such

as the Highlands, where water abounded. He looked forward to

the time when the Highlands would be re-peopled to some degree

with cultivators of the soil, but re-peopled also with industrious

artizans doing the work which that utilization of the water would

provide for them. The British Aluminium works were very
                qtuheestlioocna, lit"yW. haItt
popular in   "                                   was   only at a    distance that    the
sentimental                                     is to  become of   the beautiful   Falls
of Foyers ?                                                       on now in all    their
                was asked. They were going

beauty, and might go on so for many a year. He did not him

self utter the aspiration that they might so go on. He thought

when the time came that every drop of water that now fell over

the Falls of Foyers was used for the benefit of mankind, no wise

man, no man who thought of the good of the people, would

regret that the power in the waterfall was developed for the

benefit of mankind.

Toronto was the meeting place of the British

Association in 1897. Lord and Lady Kelvin sailed

on August 7th on the Campania for New York,
reaching Toronto on the 17th. At this meeting
he read one paper, on the Fuel and Air Supply of

the Earth. This discourse has never been printed

in full. Its main theme was an estimate of the

total probable amount of fuel on this planet.
VOL. II
                                                                  2E

1002 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                    CHAP.

Taking as a standard fuel one requiring three times its weight

of oxygen to consume Lord Kelvin arrived at the conclusion
                                     it,
that the total weight of fuel                  the earth                    not more than 340
                                                ;

                                               in
                                                                     in is
millions of millions of tons the uncombined oxygen over the

globe being 1020 millions of millions of tons. The coal-supply

of Great Britain was about one two-thousandth part of the total

fuel supply of the world. Great Britain's coal was more than

could possibly be burned by all the oxygen the air immediately
over the British Isles. In regard to the effect of sunlight in

storing energy and fuel, the present rate of sunshine was equivalent
to the production of two tons of vegetation per square metre, per

thousand years an estimate agreeing very closely with the growth
;

                                    if
of German forests and of English hay-fields. We might, as coal

fields become exhausted, have to think of growing hay for fuel, as

more economical than raising coal. But we burn up our fuel

supplies so fast the oxygen of the air may become exhausted, and

that exhaustion might come about in four or five centuries.

The Times correspondent at Toronto wrote                                                                           :

" Lord Kelvin                        above all others the popular
                               ;
                                               received with acclamation
                                  is
                                           is
favourite here he

wherever he appears."

    On his way to Toronto Lord Kelvin had visited

Niagara Falls to see the huge industrial develop

ment there arising, which he greatly praised in a

statement which he gave to the press on his visit --
                                               I
                                                                                                                :
The originators of the work so far carried out and now in

progress, hold concession for the development of 450,000 horse
I
                            a                  do not myself believe that
power from the Niagara waterfall

any such limit will be found to the use of this great natural source.

look forward to the time when the whole water from Lake Erie

will find its way to the lower level of Lake Ontario through

machinery, doing more good for the world than even that great

benefit which we now possess in contemplation of the splendid

scene which we have before us in the waterfall of Niagara.
                                                                            in
wish could live to see this grand development.
                                                                             I
                                                                                            aI
I                                                                           do not hope
      I

                                  a
that our children's children will ever see the Niagara cataract.
look forward to revival of life and prosperity in the Highlands

of Scotland, and to the present crofters being succeeded by

happy industrial population occupied largely                                manufactories

rendered possible by the utilization of all the water power of the



xxm        IN NORTH-WEST CANADA  1003

country. It seems to me a happy thought that the poor people
of the country will be industrious artizans, rather than mere

guides to tourists.

    In Toronto Lord Kelvin made several speeches
-- on his university experiences, when he received

an honorary degree from Toronto University ; on

the benefits of the British Association, at the

banquet given by the Governor-General of Canada ;
and on other matters at several minor entertain

ments.

     After the meeting there was an excursion, lasting

over a fortnight, across the Canadian continent, by

the Canadian Pacific Railway, to Victoria, British

Columbia.  The party reached Winnipeg on

August 28th, and crossed the prairies to Banff

Hot Springs, through the Rockies to Laggan, Field,

Glacier House, Revelstoke, and Vancouver. Lord

Kelvin telegraphed home from Glacier House,
" Have had splendid time. Most interesting and

varied journey. Are enjoying ourselves immensely."
A photograph, taken by Prof. E. M. Crookshank,

representing Lord Kelvin standing beside the

Kananaskis Fall, which is near the railway between

Regina and Banff, is here reproduced as Plate XIV.

Wherever he went, the popularity of his recep

tion was universal and striking. Canadians gladly

showed their appreciation not only of his position

in the world of science, but of the service he had

rendered Canada in connexion with the Atlantic

telegraph. Returning by the Northern Pacific, they
spent four days in the Yellowstone Park, and

1004  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                             CHAP.

reached Chicago on September 15th. Thence by
Pittsburg to New York, Long Island, and back to
New York, whence Lord Kelvin paid a visit to

Schenectady to see the General Electric Co.'s
works. Passing through Boston he went to Halifax,
and on to Montreal to discuss water-power schemes,

after which he spent a few days at Lennox with
George Westinghouse. On October 1 1 he was in
Philadelphia, visiting the University with Professor

Barker ; running over to Princeton University ;
joining in a discussion on " Matter " at the American
Philosophical Society ; and enjoying social enter
tainments.1 On the 1 6th he sailed in the Campania ;

and by the 29th he was in Cambridge for the
statutory Meeting of Fellows at Peterhouse.

    The Rt. Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, as Lord

Rector of the University, visited Glasgow on

November 3rd, to deliver his Rectorial Address2
on " Patriotism," and stayed with Lord Kelvin.

    At the Watt anniversary, on January 23, 1898,

Lord Kelvin spoke of the connection of James Watt
with the University of Glasgow, and of the improve

ments which he introduced into the steam-engine.

Watt was a leader in science. He recalled how his

     1 An odd occurrence at a dinner party at the house of a gentleman whom
for the purpose of biography we will call Mr. Frank Johnson, caused Lord
and Lady Kelvin much amusement. A large company had been invited to

dine at 7.30. Through some mishap their distinguished visitors were late,
and the assembled guests and their hosts began to experience some uneasiness.

Suddenly the draperies            before   the  dofoorrwthawy ithweraennthoruunstceads:ide",  and in  the open
                                  butler,  who                                                Mistah  Johnson,
ing  Lbaewamd eadmthceomneeg!ro"
de
    a The reporters record that whilst Mr. Chamberlain kept his eyeglass in
his right eye all evening, Lord Kelvin, who wore his monocle in his left eye
on entering, shifted it to his right eye during the latter part of the time. He
had a favourite theory that the eyes should be rested alternately !

XXHI MORE THERMODYNAMICS          1005

own great master in physical science, Regnault, had
" la loi de Watt," the law of Watt as to the latent

heat of steam, continually upon his lips. Even

telegraphy owed something to Watt, for without the

steam-engine and steam navigation they could never

have had the ocean telegraphs.

    Lord Kelvin returned to thermodynamic studies

in two papers read in February and March to the

Royal Society of Edinburgh. The first related to

the energy theory of volta-contact electricity, being
an extension of the ideas put forward in his Royal

Institution discourse of the previous year (see p. 996),
with experiments conducted in a cycle of operations.

The other was on thermodynamics founded on

motivity, and in it he called attention to his paper

of 1855 (see p. 294), in which he had laid down the
doctrine of available energy. He also lectured

to the Glasgow Philosophical Society on Mutual

Actions between Plastic Solids and Liquids. About

the same date he presented to the library of that

Society a valuable collection of scientific books.

    At the graduation ceremony of April 12, 1898,

owing to the illness of Principal Caird, the duty of

presiding and presenting medals and prizes fell to

Lord Kelvin as Senior Professor.  After the cere
mony he gave a brief address :--

     Graduates and undergraduates, students, you have been busy
for many months, or years, with your university studies. You
have been creating property. You have not been making money,

nor adding field to field, nor building houses. But you have

been creating a property more precious than gold or silver, or
broad acres, or houses that may be burned or ruined. The pro

perty you have created is your very own for ever, indestructible,

roo6  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

imperishable, inalienable. The splendid university organization,
with its material resources, and the living influence of its teachers
and students, has helped you. But every one of you has, by
himself and for himself, by the power of God working in him,
made the property which he brings away with him. May it to
every one of you be a joy and a blessing for ever.

    Principal Caird died in July, and there was a
rumour in the press that Lord Kelvin would be

made Principal of the University. But it was

known pretty generally that he would not accept
the position ; and it appears that no actual ofifer of
it to him was made, the Rev. R. H. Story being

appointed to the post.

    Before that date Lord and Lady Kelvin had
paid a visit to Hallam, Lord Tennyson, at Farring-
ford, Freshwater. Thence Lord Kelvin wrote on

June 3 to Darwin that he was still busy with revising
the Baltimore Lectures. While staying at Farring-
ford he went to see Signer Marconi's installation of
wireless telegraphy between Alum Bay and Bourne

mouth, and insisted on paying a shilling to send

" through the ether " a message to Stokes. A week

later he agreed to act as consulting engineer to the
" Wireless Telegraph and Signal Company " about to

be formed. Concerning this he wrote on June 12 :--

     In accepting to be consulting engineer I am making a
condition that no more money be asked from the public,
for the present at all events ; as it seems to me that the
present syndicate has as much capital as is needed for
the work in prospect, and as could get a proper return
out of earnings on applications which we can at present
foresee. I am by no means confident that this condition

will be acceptable to the promoters. But without it I

cannot act.

xxm THE FLASH-POINT SCANDAL                     1007

    At intervals through this spring Lord Kelvin

was giving sittings to Mr. (now Sir) W. Q.
Orchardson for the portrait presented by subscrip
tion to the Royal Society. His passion to fill up

available moments is illustrated by the following

note to Lord Rayleigh :--

DEAR           PETERHOUSE LODGE, CAMB.,   May 22 [1898].
                                         telling me of your
        RAYLEIGH -- Stokes has been

investigation proving very extreme nullity of reflection of

light at the polarizing angle (? very exactly Fresnel's?) of
water with the roughly pure surface. Will you give me

the reference ? Will you come to Orchardson's on either

Wed. or Friday next, or both, 1 1  to I o'cl.,  so that   we
may have a good talk over many     important    affairs?
                                                          --

Yours,                                          K.

    The Times of July 15, 1898, contained a short
but cogent letter from Lord Kelvin on the Report
of the Petroleum Committee (see p. 962). Mr.

Jesse Coilings, who had always opposed the much-
needed reform of raising the flash-point test from

the low value of 73° to 100°, had rather foolishly
written that if the oil flows out through the lamp
breaking, " it matters little whether the oil is 73° or
1oo°." Lord Kelvin, who was scandalized by this

officious defence of the use of cheap low flash-point
oils, wrote, " I believe many lives will be saved

by the adoption of the Committee's recommendation

to prevent, as far as legislation can prevent, the use

of oil for an illuminant with flash-point (Abel close
test) below 1oo°."

    At the Bristol meeting of the British Association
in September 1898, Lord Kelvin read three papers,

ioo8 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                       CHAP.

two of them relating to the dynamics of the undula-
tory theory of light, and one on the graphic re
presentation of waves.

    Lord Kelvin took the chair on October 18, in

St. Andrew's Hall, Glasgow, at a great Liberal
Unionist meeting addressed by the Duke of Devon

shire. Speaking as chairman, he described the
Unionist alliance of 1886 as the greatest political
event of the second half of the nineteenth century.
He prophesied that this alliance would last on into
the twentieth century, though the details of govern

ment would be different, since history did not repeat
itself. " I have," he said, " my ideas as to opposition
and supporters of the Government : this is not the
time to speak of them. But I do believe in a new
mode of action in politics, in which everything shall
be discussed according to its merits, and not accord

ing to party ins and outs."
    In the ancient city of Colchester the annual

Oyster Feast is usually made the occasion for

inviting distinguished guests of honour. At the

Oyster Feast1 of October 31, 1898, the chief guests
were H.R. H. the Duke of Cumberland, Lord

1 Conviviality at this quaint civic festival never seems to be damped by

the circumstance that the menu consists of unlimited oysters and brown bread

and butter, all of primest quality; and on this occasion the usual hilarity
prevailed. In proposing the toast of Science and Engineering, Lord Claud
                             qLuoersdtionKe:lvi"n,Hawvheosyeounaemveer
                                                                                                with
                              said : No, he never had ;                                         walk
"Hamilton                                                               was associated         believe  the
toast,  ? t"o   called upon
stairs                                                                   seen an oyster        theory   up
               reply to the               But if," he said,                                              an
                Lord Kelvin                                             a"ndweheaddoidpt noat             at

oyster could walk upstairs.

gpoyrreessateetrn'stgravgnerderysaotn,fa--sghreisoaantya, balgermeaiiltnli--omnreopdmeearilntliointscifeyivneecaers,huhnthedenrecded--ayowr iwlfliivlnleotcmoominlleliyonbwehteiamnbelest--hteo

walk upstairs,   but also   to attend     "the  Oyster  Feast,  and when  he arrives           at the
top will have   to make    a speech
                                       1

xxni LORD KELVIN IN ROME  1009

Kelvin, Lord Rayleigh, the Lord Mayor of London,
and Lord Claud Hamilton.

    Lord Kelvin attended the Annual Meeting and
Banquet of the Royal Society on November 3Oth,
but took no active part in the proceedings. He had

been on 28th re-elected for the fifteenth time (with
certain intervals between) President of the Royal
Society of Edinburgh, an office which he held until

his death.

    On January 13, 1899, Lord Kelvin paid a visit to
Nottingham to see the electric lighting works. In
February he was elected an honorary member of the
Institution of Electrical Engineers, the first under
the new rules of that body.

    He was still picking up the threads of his long-

delayed publications, and wrote various notes about

them to Lord Rayleigh, including the following :--

                       THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,
                                   March 11/99.

The Pitt Press have been profiting by my cold-

prevention regime. They have been having a despatch

of Baltimore every day, and must be arranging to engage

fresh hands.

I now, since yesterday evening, after a not sleepless

night, believe undoubtingly the Green-Cauchy stress-theory

of Double Refraction.     K.

    Easter 1899 saw Lord and Lady Kelvin in Rome.
Lord Kelvin was present on April 23 at the sitting
of the R. Accademia dei Lincei, where he was

welcomed by the President Sig. Beltrami in the
following words : " I have the pleasure of announc

ing to the Academy that this day's sitting is honoured

1010  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

by the presence of its venerated Foreign Associate
Lord Kelvin, incomparably the most distinguished

representative of physical science -- taken in its
widest sense -- of our time in the whole civilized
world." He then recounted Lord Kelvin's achieve

ments, and invited the members of the Academy " to
give a salute of honour to our venerated colleague,"
which they did by rising to their feet. On May I
a complimentary banquet was given to Lord Kelvin
by the Associazione Elettrotecnica Italiana and the

Ministry of Posts and Telegraphs. Sig. Mengarini
and three other speakers proposed the toast of his
health in the warmest terms ; and Lord Kelvin in

replying spoke with admiration of the extent to
which electric engineering had been carried out in
Rome. He had been deeply struck by the beauties
of ancient Rome and the skill of her builders. Yet,

he added, the old Romans, if they could come back
to life, and see the transmission of 2000 horse-power

by four wires no thicker than his little finger stretch
ing across the Campagna to supply Rome with
electricity from the cascade of Tivoli, along nearly
the same route as their magnificent aqueducts,
would think a feat had been accomplished even
greater than those of old times.

    Returning northwards Lord and Lady Kelvin
were entertained by the Batavian Society of Rotter

dam on June 17.
    On June 26 Lord Kelvin spoke in the House of

Lords against the insertion in mail-steamer contracts
of clauses inflicting penalties for delay in arrival,

                 KELW.T         S^.
                                     Jfc
       ,v tlie most
n               na     o/

       : in the            fay  tie
                                   is
                tt ft
a
       given to Lou
·      "nica Jtaliaa;  of
   in tpis.              fc
       '5ed tie te
       and Lonlfc

                 ttetc
       seen came;

       jck
       :er tu/Wffi

       · could offi
       2000 tasK

       enr

       :er com5'

          ^

XI

xxm RETIREMENT ion

irrespective of cause of delay. Such clauses were
dangerous, as promoting high speed in times of fog.
Later in the session he spoke against the Seats for
Shop Girls Bill.

    He had now reached his seventy-fifth birthday.
For some time he had determined on retiring from
the duties of his professorship, and had been quietly
preparing to withdraw from active service. At a

meeting of the University Court on July n he

presented a petition for leave to retire. The Court

granted leave, and accepted his retirement with deep
regret, instructing the Principal to prepare a minute l
to be signed by the members of the Court expressing
their sense of the great loss the University was thus

to sustain. His resignation took effect on October i,
1899. In the autumn his former student and
assistant, Andrew Gray, was chosen as his successor.

    Lord Kelvin had held the Chair of Natural
Philosophy since 1846. " It was to him," said
Principal Story, "an undisguised pain to sever the
tie that bound him to the University." Yet the tie

was not completely severed, for he insisted on in
scribing his name on the University roll as a
" research student."

    1 For the text of the minute and of Lord Kelvin's reply, see The Electrician,
xliii. p. 689, September 8, 1899.

                CHAPTER XXIV

              THE GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY

      Utinam caetera Naturae phaenomena ex principiis Mechanicis
 eodem argumentandi genere derivare liceret. Nam multa me movent
 ut nonnihil suspicer ea omnia ex viribus quibusdam pendere posse,
 quibus corporum particulae per causas nondum cognitas vel in se
 mutuo impelluntur et secundum figuras regulares cohaerent, vel ab
 invicem fugantur et recedunt : quibus viribus ignotis, Philosophi
hactenus Naturam frustra tentarunt. Spero autem quod vel huic
 Philosophandi modo, vel veriori alicui, Principia hie posita lucem

aliquam praebebunt. --NEWTON, Philosophiae Naturalis Principia

Mathematica (Praefatio ad Lectorem).

SCIENCE is bound, by the everlasting law of honour,
to face fearlessly every problem that can fairly be
presented to it. These were Lord Kelvin's words

in 1871, in the Address (see p. 599) wherein he
held out a prospect of the early completion of the

molecular theory of matter -- "a great chart, in

which all physical science will be represented with
every property of matter shown in dynamical
relation to the whole." For another quarter of a

century he continued --and nowhere more con
spicuously than in the Baltimore Lectures --to face

fearlessly the outstanding problems of physics, the
relation of ether to ponderable matter, the inner
mechanism of the molecule, and the properties

CH.XXIV GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1013

of electricity and magnetism which matter can

manifest.

   If at his Jubilee his hearers were startled by the

frank confession of "failure," it was no note of

despair that he sounded. He himself told what he
meant in a letter to M. Wilfrid de Fonvielle :--

...DEAR MR. DE FONVIELLE --  July 25, 1896.
                              I thank you

also for the cutting from the Petit Journal which came
to me from you a few days after your letter. I see

in it a slight misunderstanding of what I said in
Glasgow regarding " failure of my most strenuous

efforts." It was not anything that I had been in the

habit of teaching, either in my lectures or published

papers, to which I referred. I am as firmly convinced as

ever of the absolute truth of the kinetic theory of gases.
What I feel that I have failed in has been my persevering

efforts during 50 years to understand something more of
the luminiferous ether and of the manner in which it is

concerned in electric and magnetic forces ; and it was of

this that I said I know no more now than I knew
5 5 years ago when I became convinced that ether was

essentially concerned in all these actions. Trusting you

will kindly excuse my making this correction, I remain,

yours very truly,            KELVIN.

    He had, in fact, set before himself very early in

his career an immensely high ideal, a noble ambition

of so tremendous an import that it would seem as
if all his life he had shrunk from exhibiting it in full
panoply. Yet there had assuredly haunted him day
by day the suggestion of an all-embracing, compre
hensive theory of matter. In the Preface to
Newton's Principia, the great philosopher after
stating his claim to have deduced the motions of

1014  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

the Planets, the Comets, the Moon, and the Sea,

by mathematical arguments, from the forces of
gravity, uttered the aspiration : Utinam caetera
Naturae phaenomena ex principiis Mechanicis eodem
argumentandi genere derivare liceret. That pregnant
sentence might well be the symbol of Lord Kelvin's

intellectual career.

    That he worked often and strenuously at lesser
aspects of the subject, that on occasions he deliber
ately chose to explore some smaller region of the
great " chart," is quite compatible with his holding
the greater ambition as an ultimate aim. In the
years of his boyhood the interconnexion of the

physical sciences had been bit by bit revealed.

Already Davy had discovered the chemical actions
of the electric current, and Oersted and Arago

its magnetic properties. Faraday had generated
electric currents dynamically by the moving of a
magnet ; and by a triumphant tour de force had
proved magnetism to be capable of acting on light.
Grove had drawn attention to the correlation of

physical forces, a correlation not then amenable to
calculation, and requiring the discovery of the great
energy-principle to give the clue to the transforma
tions so correlated. But the properties of matter,
its ultimate structure, its elasticity and its compressi

bility, its optical, electric, and magnetic qualities,
these were as yet totally unexplained. They must
be capable of explanation ; they must in some way
depend upon the arrangement and mutual actions
of the molecules of its structure, or upon the

xx1v GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1015

structure and properties of the molecules them

selves, or upon their relation to the all-pervading

ether of space. To be the Newton of the molecular

theory which should afford a dynamical explanation

of all these properties was a noble and worthy

ambition.

Such an idea seems to have come to William

Thomson in a partial aspect during the spring of

1846, while he was still at Peterhouse (see p. 159),
when he was " often trying to connect the theory of

propagation of electricity and magnetism with the

solid transmission of force." But in the middle of

composing the Inaugural Lecture of his Glasgow

course in October 1846, the notion returned to him

with compelling vividness, that he could somehow

represent by the straining of an elastic solid the
phenomena of electricity and magnetism. As his

mathematical notebook shows (see p. 197), it
was on 28th November 1846 that he at last suc
ceeded in working out the " mechanico-cinematical "

representation of electric, magnetic, and galvanic

forces formulated in terms of the equations of an

incompressible elastic solid.

    The paper, published in the Cambridge and

Dublin Mathematical Journal for 1847, sets forth

indeed a mechanical representation ; x but the

theories it propounds are a mathematical skeleton

1 It was this paper which started Maxwell's investigations.  " The distinct

conception of the possibility of the mathematical expressions arose in my
mind from the perusal of Prof. W. Thomson's papers, ' On a Mechanical
Representation of Electric, Magnetic, and Galvanic Forces,' Cambridge
and Dublin Mathematical Journal, January 1847, etc."; Maxwell, Comb.
Phil. Trans. Dec. 10, 1855, p. 67.

ioi6  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                  CHAP.

only, with no physical treatment such as with fuller

powers he put forth in later life. He found, in

fact, three particular solutions of the equations of

equilibrium of an elastic solid. One of these, by

mathematical analogy, expressed electric attractions

as the result of an elastic displacement ; another

expressed magnetic forces, statically, as the result

of an angular displacement (not a sustained rota
tional movement) ; the third, similarly, gave an
elastic analogue for the forces in the neighbourhood
of a wire carrying a current. He wound up by

saying that a special examination of the various
states of a solid body " must be reserved for a

future paper."

That the main proposition of this paper con

stituted a mathematical analogy rather than a

dynamical explanation Thomson was fully conscious :

for, writing to Faraday about it in June 1847

(see p. 203), he himself says that he did not
venture even to hint at the possibility of making

it the foundation of a physical theory of the pro

pagation of electric and magnetic forces.  He
ifadded, most significantly, that " such a theory
could be discovered, it would also, when taken in

connexion with the undulatory theory of light, in

all probability explain the effect of magnetism on

polarized light." Obviously he had been trying to

frame such a theory.

    Again and again, throughout his lectures and
addresses, we meet with the phrase " the properties
of matter." The Properties of Matter was the title

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1017

assigned to a chapter -- alas ! never written --of the

great unfinished Treatise on Natural Philosophy.

When, at an early date in his career, he was asked

what was the object of a physical laboratory, he
replied that it was " to investigate the properties of

matter." Years afterwards, in the address     called
" Steps towards a Kinetic Theory of Matter,"  given

in 1884 at Montreal, he said :--

. . . All the properties of matter are so connected

that we can scarcely imagine one thoroughly explained

without our seeing its relation to all the others, without in
fact having the explanation of all, and till we have this
we cannot tell what we mean by " explaining a property,"
or " explaining the properties " of matter. But though

this consummation may never be reached by man, the

progress of science may be, I believe will be, step by

                on many different roads converging
I

          it

                           i.

                        p. a it,
                                                                                                    is,
step towards

towards  from all sides.  oTnheonkeineotficthetherooaryds.o--f gPaospesular
as have  said, true step

Lectures, vol.  233.

His ideas as to the nature of matter were pro

foundly influenced by the discoveries of Joule.
From 1847 to 1855, when Thomson was working
out his mathematical theory of magnetism (p. 211

above), he had (as he stated in 1872 when com
piling his reprint of Papers on Electrostatics and

Magnetism) no belief in the reality of Ampere's

theory, according to which magnetism of steel or

iron consists of electric currents circulating round

the molecules of the magnetized substance. In the

note which he appended to  419 of that work,
                I

                                         p.
                                                                           2
                                                                  F
he confesses, " but did not then know that motion
VOL. II

i oi 8        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                   CHAP.

is the very essence of what has hitherto been

called matter. At the 1847 meeting of the British
Association in Oxford, I learned from Joule the

dynamical theory of heat, and was forced to abandon

at once many, and gradually from year to year all

other, statical preconceptions regarding the ultimate

causes of apparently statical phenomena."

    Already in 1855 Thomson was speculating on
the mechanical antecedents of motion, heat, and

light, and had suggested that all of them originated
in gravitation. And in his Royal Institution dis

course of 1856 he suggested that all heat was
electric, and all light also, although he gave no

arguments in support of the suggestion. But in

the same year he laid before the Royal Society

certain dynamical illustrations of the rotatory effects

of transparent bodies on polarized light. He had

been considering Faraday's great discovery that

magnetism acting on a piece of heavy-glass through

which light is passing, can exert a turning effect on

the plane of polarization of a beam of polarized light

that is passing through                             and had compared that
a
                                     a
                                               it,
phenomenon with Arago's earlier discovery           is         that
in passing through plate of quartz there                     isalso
                                                               now
   twisting of the plane of polarization. He

emphasized the essential difference between the

two cases. If in the case of quartz the light

caused by reflexion to retraverse the quartz in the

opposite direction, the rotation of the plane of

              annulled whereas in the case of
polarization  is

                                                 ;

the magnetized heavy-glass, on reflecting the light

XXIV GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1019

back through it the rotation is doubled. He there
fore ascribed the action in the case of quartz to
a spiral or helicoidal arrangement of the molecular
structure ; and, in the case of the heavy-glass, to

a real rotation impressed on the substance by the

influence of the magnet. Not otherwise could one

explain the circumstance that the rotatory effect in
the magnetic case is independent of the " sense " of
the propagation of the light through the substance.

To make the matter plainer, he conceived certain

dynamical models to show how the vibrations of

material systems can be changed in azimuth by the
influences of constraints and forces impressed upon

them.

From these illustrations it is easy to see in an infinite

variety of ways how to make structures, homogeneous

when considered on a large enough scale, which, with

certain rotatory motions of component parts having, in

portions large enough to be sensibly homogeneous,

resultant axes of momenta arrayed like lines of magnetic

force, shall have the dynamical property by which the optical

pehxepnlaoimneedn.a--oRfoyt.raSnoscp.aPreronct .  bodies    in the magnetic field  are
                                                  viii. p.   155, June 1856.

     He had a word, too (ibid. p. 152), on the prob
able relations between matter and ether :--

    The introduction of the principle of moments of
momenta into the mechanical treatment of Mr. Rankine's
hypothesis of " molecular vortices " suggests the resultant
moment of momenta of these motions as the definite
measure of the "magnetic moment." The explanation
of all phenomena of electromagnetic attraction or repul
sion, and of electromagnetic induction, is to be looked
for simply in the inertia and pressure of the matter of

1020 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                       CHAP.

which the motions constitute heat. Whether this matter
is or is not electricity, whether it is a continuous fluid
interpermeating the spaces between molecular nuclei, or
is itself molecularly grouped ; or whether all matter is
continuous, and molecular heterogeneousness consists in
finite vortical or other relative motions of contiguous
parts of a body, it is impossible to decide, and perhaps

in vain to speculate, in the present state of science. --Ib.

p. 152.

     Occasionally he allowed himself to step forward
beyond the bounds of the accepted philosophy, and
to rush to intuitive conclusions for which afterwards

he had to seek for logical demonstration. Witness
the following passage l from the peroration to his
Royal Institution discourse of May 1860 on "Atmo

spheric Electricity " : --

We now look on space as full. We know that light is

propagated like sound through pressure and motion. . . .

If electric force depends on a residual surface action, a

resultant of an inner tension experienced by the insulating

medium, we can conceive that electricity itself is to be

understood as not an accident but an essence of matter.

                      is,
                        ; it
                                                 a
Whatever electricity  seems quite certain that electri

city in motion is heat and that certain alignment of

axes of revolution in this motion IS magnetism. Fara

day's magneto-optic experiment makes this not hypo
                                                    a
                                                            a
thesis but demonstrated conclusion. Thus rifle-bullet
a

keeps its point foremost Foucault's gyroscope finds the
earth's axis of palpable rotation and the magnetic needle
                      ;
                                        ;

shows that more subtle rotatory movement in matter of

the earth, which we call terrestrial magnetism all by one
                                                    :
and the same dynamical action.                                                     :

Two points            the above are worthy of note
1

           in
                                      is
the suggestion that electricity an essential quality

   Electrostatics and Magnetism, pp. 224, 225.

XXIV GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1021

of matter, and that confident assertion that Faraday's

experiment proves magnetism to be a dynamical

phenomenon akin to the kinetic rigidity of rotation.

    It was at this stage that the writing of the
Thomson and Tail Treatise came in to focus the

conception that all the outlying branches of physics
were essentially based on dynamics. And though
in that great work the correlating notion avowedly
put forward is that of the Conservation of Energy,
yet it is dynamics, the science of the particular
manifestation of energy when it is expended on

moving masses, that dominates the treatment.
What the oft-promised chapter on the " Properties of
Matter " might have brought out in the way of ulti

mate molecular theory cannot even be conjectured.

But here and there some casual phrase reveals a

thought, as, for example,    in §   340   (p.   275 of
Vol. I.), where the authors  speak        the  ultimate
                                    of "

molecular motions constituting heat, light, and

magnetism."

    In October 1864 Clerk Maxwell published his
famous Electromagnetic Theory of Light, in a paper
read to the Royal Society of London.1 Whether
Thomson was present, or whether he made any
comment at the time, is not known. What Maxwell
propounded, if stated in the briefest possible terms,
is this: -- that the propagation of light-waves may

be explained by supposing that in a plane-polarized
wave the minute transverse displacements of which

    1 Phil. Trans, civ. p. 459, " A Dynamical Theory of the Electro

magnetic Field."

1022 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN     CHAP.

the wave consists are not mechanical displacements

but electrical ones, and that these are always accom

panied by corresponding minute magnetic displace

ments, also transverse, but at right angles to the

electric displacements, half the energy in each wave

being electrical and half magnetic ; the medium (the

ether) being regarded as having a definite rigidity
or electric elasticity (the reciprocal of its dielectric
capacity), and as having also a definite inertia (an
electromagnetic inertia due to self-induction). Pre
cisely how Maxwell came to this view is not known.

Probably it dawned upon him when considering the

meaning of the ratio "v" (see p. 524), which Weber

had shown to be the interconnecting relation between

the electric and the magnetic units when reduced to

an absolute basis. This velocity had been found by

Weber to be 3-1074x1o10 cm. per second, being
almost identical with that of light ; the best determi

nations of which had given a velocity of 2-9992 x 1o10
cm. per second. Sir William Thomson, in March
1868, had redetermined " v," and found the slightly

lower value    of   2-825 x  Iol°- According to Clerk
             v"    bore the   physical meaning of that
Maxwell, "

velocity at which any sudden electromagnetic dis

turbance would be propagated in transverse waves

through free space. He himself had been studying

such waves, though their actual existence was as yet

unknown to experimenters ; and he laid down their
equations on the theory of electric " displacement "

in his memoir of 1864, If waves of light were

observed to travel at the same particular speed at

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1023

which electromagnetic waves were believed, from
pure theory, to travel, might not light-waves be

electromagnetic in their essential nature ? For closer
testing of this brilliant speculation Clerk Maxwell
himself, in 1869, made a redetermination of the
ratio "v," and found it 2-8798 x io10 cm. per second.
But coincidence between the value of " v " and that

of the velocity of light was not the only argument to
support the theory. The opacity of all good electric
conductors (except electrolytes) and the transparency

of all dielectrics afforded an additional reason in
favour of the theory. Moreover, if it were true, then
the refractive index of any transparent medium
should be proportional to the square root of its
dielectric capacity. These things appeared to be
broadly true, and Maxwell's pupils and disciples were

for some years busy in examining the outstanding

discrepancies.
     But Thomson, as mentioned on p. 879, would not

bring himself to accept Maxwell's views. In the
first place, he had in 1860 explicitly denied1 that

electricity as such had any definite velocity of
travelling. He had shown in his early telegraphic
investigations how the apparent velocity of propa
gation of an electric impulse along a conducting line
or cable is modified by the "embarrassment" due to

       1  ;Ar"tictlhee  on "Velocity of Electricity," ffichol'sCyclapttdia          (second   edition),
1860                     supposed ' velocity ' of transmission of electric           signals   is not a

definite constant like the velocity of light, even when one definite substance,

copper, is the transmitting medium."
It however, interesting to note that when reprinting this article in vol.
          is,
                                                                                in
ii. of his   Math, and      Phys.   P"apEelercst,romp. ag1n3e7ti,c                   the year 1883, he added a
reference   to the chapter  on the
                                                                                  Theory of Light" in Maxwell's

Treatise.

1024 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

the charging of the surrounding dielectric (whether
gutta - percha, air, or ether) ; and he was well
acquainted with the inductive embarrassment met

with in coiled circuits -- the retardation due to self-
induction. It is true that Wheatstone, in 1834, had

experimentally found the speed of propagation of a
spark - discharge along copper wires to be 288,000
miles per second, a speed distinctly greater than
that of light, and that Fizeau and Gounelle, in 1850,
had found the lower value of 112,000 miles per
second. But Thomson's pronouncement of 1860

shows that, up to that date at least, he had no
confidence that electricity had any such intrinsic
velocity. Moreover, he himself regarded Maxwell's
theory as a backward step, hindering, not helping
the attempt to find a true dynamical explanation of
the propagation of light-waves ; or, as on a subse

quent occasion he put it,1 an attempt to explain

ignotum per ignotius. That he did not greet Clerk
Maxwell's magnificent hypothesis with the en

thusiasm with which it was acclaimed by the younger
school of British physicists, is a fact not to be ignored
or explained away. Nothing could be further from
truth than the unworthy suggestion that he was

jealous --he who never throughout his whole career

showed the least trace of any shadow of amour-
propre in matters of scientific discovery -- of the fame
of his younger compeer. Strict scrutiny of all the
circumstances will show that the true explanation is
quite other. He was a strong man, intellectually

      1 Baltimore Lectures, p. 271, in the passage quoted on p. 836 supra.

XXIV GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1025

strong, as we have seen in the matter of Carnot's

theory, concerning which he had for three years

held out against Joule's view, until he had been able
to think out for himself the true scientific theory

which brought both views together. So in the

matter of Maxwell's theory he held tenaciously to

his own way of regarding the fundamental relations

between matter and motion, light and electricity ;

and while not yet prepared to enunciate any com

prehensive theory of his own, held back from
accepting what seemed to him a partial if not

retrograde hypothesis. There is probably also

another reason. He once said
                       a                827) that he
                                             it.

                                                                    ;

                                                      ; (p.

                                                       It
was not satisfied with a formula unless he could

feel its arithmetical magnitude at another time

 that he needed to interpret physically every

line of mathematical argument and yet again
:
(p. 835), that no theory would satisfy him until
  a
he could imagine model of               He found himself

unable to translate into a dynamical model the

abstract equations of Maxwell's theory.                                cannot

even be said that he actually rejected Maxwell's

theory his own words sufficiently indicate his

attitude of mind. In his Presidential Address of

1871, in apparently his earliest comment on the

subject, he spoke thus --
                       .
                           .

                                     :
Weber extended the practice of absolute measurement

to electric currents.  . He showed the relation between

electrostatic and electromagnetic units for absolute

measurement, and made the beautiful discovery that

resistance, in absolute electromagnetic measure, and the

1026             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                         CHAP.

reciprocal of resistance (or, as we call     is it,  " conducting

power in electrostatic measure, are each of them a
      ")

velocity. He made an elaborate and difficult series of

experiments to measure the velocity which equal to the

conducting power in electrostatic measure, and at the

same time equal to the resistance in electromagnetic

measure, in one and the same conductor. Maxwell, in

making the first advance along road of which Faraday
                                             a
                                                                     is
                                                                              a

                                                                            it
was the pioneer,1 discovered that this velocity physically

related to the velocity of light, and that, on                                               certain

hypothesis regarding the elastic medium concerned, may
be exactly equal to the velocity of light. Weber's measure

ment verifies approximately this equality, and stands in

science monutnentum aere perennius, celebrated as having

suggested this most grand theory, and as having afforded
the first quantitative test of the recondite properties of

matter on which the relations of electricity and light

depend. A remeasurement of Weber's critical velocity

on new plan by Maxwell himself, and the important
correction of the velocity of light by Foucault's laboratory
a
              a
experiments, verified by astronomical observation, seem

to show          still closer agreement. The most accurate

possible determination of Weber's critical velocity just
                               ;

                                         it
                                               is

                                                                               is
now a primary object of the Association's Committee

on Electric Measurement and                  at present premature

to speculate as to the closeness of the agreement between

that velocity and the velocity of light.

1 It  will be remembered that in the years 1868
to 1873 Thomson's students -- King, Dickson, and
M'Kichan -- had been set to work in his labora

tory (p. 524) on                 new determination of "v,"
                               a

                                    it
                                             is

                                                                              a
                                                                                              p.

                                                                                       I
This may refer to Faraday's discovery of the magnetic rotation of the

plane of polarization of light, or may possibly be reference to Faraday's
                                             "T"hTohueghetlsecotrnomRaagyn-evtiicbrattihoenosry,"
remarkable speculation of 1846,  entitled                                                          to
which Maxwell in 1864 referred,     saving,
                                                                                                   of

light, as proposed by him (Faraday), the same in substance as that which
                                                                                                 data
have begun    to develop in this paper,    ex"ce(pPthitlh. atTrianns1,84c6iv.there46w6e)r.e  no
to calculate  the velocity of propagation

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1027

and the result gave a value of 2-93 x io10 cm. per
second.

But in the meantime Thomson had fallen upon

Helmholtz's investigation of vortex motion, and had

conceived the idea that in the vortex-ring, with its

quasi-elasticity and its indestructibility  formed in
:

                         a

                                  (if
a frictionless fluid), we have the very type of the

atom of matter and he had himself (p. 517 supra)
worked heart and soul at the vortex-atom theory.
He had been searching for reasonable basis for
the kinetic theory of gases, and for exact data of the
size, weight, and numbers of atoms, in the hope that
the form and motion of the parts of each atom, and

the distances separating them, might be calculated.

He applauded the notion that the motions by which

they produce heat, electricity, and light might be

some day illustrated by exact geometric diagrams,

and that the fundamental properties of the inter

vening and possibly constituent medium might be

arrived at. He suggested vortices of various forms,
re-entrant, columnar, and tubular, to test their

physical properties. Anything would be more satis

factory than the incredible old idea of small spheres

of infinite hardness and strength they must be
regarded as pieces of matter " of measurable dimen

sions, with shape, motion, and laws of action." A
:
theory of light which left out the atoms, and sought
           It
to explain the light-waves by calling them electro

magnetic, seemed to him indeed inadequate, how

ever grand. And indeed Maxwell's own statement

of the theory was not without difficulty.   rested

1028 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                  CHAP.

on a hypothesis concerning the elastic medium, of

which he himself, in his great book on Electricity

and Magnetism of 1873, was not able to give a very

satisfying account ; and students of that work were

greatly puzzled to attach any consistent physical

meaning1 to the conception of electrical "displace
ment " which lay at the root of the matter. The

fact that Maxwell's ideas also were in state ofa it is,
                                                             a
                     ;
flux, of which the abrupt transitions and gaps in his
                         in
exposition remain to testify. Even nowa                      by                       is  not
                                                               it
possible to give clear dynamical statement of that

which he called displacement, except                             reading

into the discoveries of recent years. Thomson's

reserve was entire accord with his temperamental

bias toward freeing physical conceptions from unten

able hypotheses. He was straining his faculties

for comprehensive molecular theory such as had
never " been even imagined " before the nineteenth

century and there could --as he himself explicitly
declared in 1871 -- be no permanent satisfaction

to his mind in explaining heat, light, elasticity,

diffusion, electricity, and magnetism, when the pro

perties of the atom itself are simply assumed. The
vortex theory was to him "a finger-post,2 pointing
                                                             is
462,1    Maxwell's  ow" nIn  statement in         his paper   in the Phil. Trans.,          a1864, p.
       isruns thus                dielectric     under the   action of electromotive  force we
                  is :                                                                      a
may conceive that the electricity in each molecule;a         so displaced that one

side rendered positively and the other negatively electrified, but that thea
electricity remains entirely connected with the molecule, and does not pass
from one molecule to another. The effect of this action on the whole
dielectric mass to produce general displacement of electricity in certain
direction." The modern conception of the electron enables one to form a

clearer view.2
        On several occasions he used the simile of fat finger-post to denote hints

or possible hypotheses see pp. 885, 1031, and 1034.

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1029

way which may possibly lead to a full understanding
of the properties of atoms."

    In the same year, 1871, he discoursed to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh on the ultramundane
corpuscles by which Le Sage had proposed to ex
plain the existence of gravitation, and he connected
with that theory certain propositions about the
motion of rigid solids in a liquid circulating irrota-

tionally through perforations in them, from which
he deduced the gravitational law of inverse squares.

After quoting Le Sage's propositions, Thomson

remarks that this deduction would be " a per
fectly obvious consequence of the assumptions

were the gravific corpuscles sufficiently small."

:-Then he continues (Proc. Roy. Soc. Edin. vii.

p. 588)

    All that is necessary to complete Le Sage's theory of

gravity, in accordance with modern science, is to assume
that the ratio of the whole energy of the corpuscles to the
translational part of their energy is greater, on the average,
after collisions with mundane matter than after inter-
collisions of any ultramundane corpuscles. This sugges
tion is neither more nor less questionable than that of
Clausius for gases, which is now admitted as one of the
generally recognized truths of science. The corpuscular
theory of gravity is no more difficult in allowance of its
fundamental assumptions than the kinetic theory of gases
as at present received ; and it is more complete, inasmuch
as, from fundamental assumptions of an extremely simple
character, it explains all the known phenomena of its
subject, which cannot be said of the kinetic theory of gases
so far as it has hitherto advanced.

    In 1872 he returned to a favourite hydrokinetic

1030        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                         CHAP.

analogy1 of 1847, in which he had shown that the

velocity of fluid along its stream lines may represent

from point to point the magnetic forces produced by

a system of electric currents distributed on a surface.
    In 1875, while under the spell of his gyrostatic

studies, he investigated the effect of rotating masses

on the properties of any mechanical system in which

they might form a part, studying, for example, the

propagation of waves along a stretched uniform

chain of gyrostats ; doubtless bearing in mind all

the while the possible explanation it might afford of

elasticity in general, or of the propagation of mag

netic waves through a medium containing magnetic

molecules.

His next pronouncement on Maxwell's theory

was in his South Kensington address  (see  p. 668)                                      on

" Electrical Measurement " :--

. . . Professor Clerk Maxwell gave a theory leading

towards a dynamical theory of magnetism, part of which

suggested to him that the velocity for which the one

measure is equal to the other, in the manner I have

explained, should be the velocity of light. This brilliant

suggestion has attracted great attention, and has become

an object of intense interest, not merely for the sake of

accurate electromagnetic and electrostatic measuring --

ethleectrmoestaastuicringandwitehlecgtrroematagancectuicracuynitthse--rbeulat tiaolnso  between
                                                                                        in con
nection with physical theory. It seems, up to the present

time, that the more accurate such an experiment becomes,

the more nearly does the result approach to being equal

to the velocity of light, but still we must hold opinion in

reserve before we can say that. The result has to be

    1 See p. 206, his paper on the Electric Currents by which the Phenomena
of Terrestrial Magnetism may be produced.

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1031

much closer than has been shown         by the    eaxcpceepritmede.n--ts
already made before the suggestion       can be

Popular Lectures, vol. i. pp. 442-443.

His Royal Institution discourse of March 1881

(see p. 743), when he exhibited his experiments on
the quasi -elasticity of rotating systems, gave him

occasion to remark how distant seemed the prospect

of any such great comprehensive theory as that he

sought.

. . . May not the elasticity of every ultimate atom of

matter be thus explained ? But this kinetic theory of

matter is a dream, and can be nothing else, until it can

explain chemical affinity, electricity, magnetism, gravita

tion, and the inertia of masses (that crowds) of vortices.
     Le Sage's theory might give an explanation of gravity
                 it

                                      a
                                                   i.
                                                        p. is is a

                                                             is,
                                                                               is

                                                                                                 a
and of its relation to inertia of masses, on the vortex
theory, were not for the essential aeolotropy of crystals,

and the seemingly perfect isotropy of gravity. No finger

post pointing towards way that can possibly lead to

surmounting of this difficulty, or turning of its flank,

has been discovered, or imagined as discoverable. Belief

that no other theory of matter          possible     the only

ground for anticipating that there in store for the world

another beautiful  book to    be called Elasticity,  a Mode of
                   Lectures,  vol. 145.
Motion. --Popular

    When in 1883 Thomson was lecturing on the        a
size of atoms at the Royal Institution he touched
upon the argument afforded by the dispersion of
light in refracting media, such as glass or water,
that the molecular structure cannot be infinitely
small compared with the wave-lengths of light, an

argument which Cauchy first enunciated as
dynamical theory of the prismatic colours. This

theory he had examined and found inadequate to

1032                LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                            CHAP.

explain the large amount of dispersion actually
observed in carbon bisulphide and in dense flint
glass. Early in the very morning of his lecture he
conceived another explanation -- the same which he

afterwards amplified in the Baltimore Lectures (see

p. 817):-

We must then find another explanation of dispersion ;
and I believe there is another explanation.
                                                                   I believe

that, while giving up Cauchy's unmodified theory of dis

persion, we shall find that the same general principle is

applicable, and that by imagining each molecule to be

--loaded in a certain definite way by elastic connection

with heavier matter each molecule of the ether to have,

in palpable transparent matter, a small fringe so to speak

eolfasptiacratilclyles,colnarngeecrtedandwitlahrgiet r--inwe  their successive  a  order,
                                                                 shall have          rude

mechanical explanation, realisable by the notably easy
addition of the proper appliances to the dynamical models

before you, to account for refractive dispersion in an

infinitely fine-grained structure. It is not seventeen

hours since I saw the possibility of this explanation. I

think I now see it perfectly, but you will excuse my not

--goiPnogpiunltaor  the theory more fully under               the  circumstances.
                    Lectures, vol. i. pp. 194-195.

    He gave a mathematical account of this dynami
cal theory J of dispersion a month later to the Royal
Society of Edinburgh.

     " Steps toward a Kinetic Theory of Matter " was
the title of Sir William Thomson's Montreal
address in 1884. This was largely an account of
the kinetic theory of gases, as developed up to that
date, and in the course of it he touched on the

   1 It is substantially the same as that outlined by Sellmeier \i\-:'. Ann.

cxliii. 1872), and extended by Helmholtz (ibid. cliv. 1875).

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1033

difficulty arising as soon as one began to consider
what happened during the collision or impact

between two molecules of a gas. In any attempt to
realise a conception of the kinetic theory, one cannot
evade a question as to the nature of the force during

an impact.

. . . And in fact, unless we are satisfied to imagine

the atoms of a gas as mathematical points endowed with

inertia, and as, according to Boscovich, endowed with

forces of mutual positive and negative attraction, varying

according to some definite function of the distance, we

cannot avoid the question of impacts, and of vibrations

and rotations of the molecules resulting from impacts,

and we must look distinctly on each molecule as being

either a little elastic solid, or a configuration of motion in

a continuous all-pervading liquid. I do not myself see

how we can ever permanently rest anywhere short of this

last view ; but it would be a very pleasant temporary

resting-place on the way to    we could, as were,
                             a it,

                                if

                                                            it
make mechanical model of gas out of little pieces of
is, a
round, perfectly elastic solid matter, flying about through

the space occupied by the gas, and colliding with one

another, and against the sides of the containing vessel.

This in fact, all we have of kinetic theory of gases up

to the present time, and this has done for us, in the

hands of Clausius and Maxwell, the great things which

constitute our first step towards molecular theory of
           it

                            a
matter. Of course from we should have to go on to

find an explanation of the elasticity and all the other

properties of the molecules themselves, a subject vastly

more complex and difficult than the gaseous properties

for the explanation of which we assume the elastic

tmheolemcuolleeculebuittswelift.h--outPoapnuylaerxpLelacntuarteisona; of   the properties of
                                                                               pp. 228-229.
                                                                     vol.
                               \
                                            i.
                                                          2
                                                              G

                                                             it
    But more serious difficulty, which he had to

leave unsolved, was the certainty --he thought
   VOL. II

1034    LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                       CHAP.

" rigorously demonstrable "-- that the whole of the
translational energy of the flying molecules, if each

is a continuous elastic solid, must ultimately be

frittered down into vibrational energy, and therefore

become lost by radiation. So he turned to the

question of elasticity.

If we could make out of matter devoid of elasticity a

combined system of relatively moving parts which, in

virtue of motion, has the essential characteristics of an

elastic body, this would surely be, if not positively a step

in the kinetic theory of matter, at least a finger-post point

ing a   wofaymatwtehri.ch--  we     may     hope  will  lead  to  a kinetic
theory                               \. p.  235.
                             Ibid.

    This, he continued, we can do in several ways.
And he here referred to his own published papers
on vortex atoms, and on elasticity as possibly a
mode of motion (see p. 743), and to his model
spring-balance containing gyrostats (p. 745), and to
his model medium imitating the luminiferous ether,
built up with portions possessing kinetic stability,

due either to gyrostats or to inviscid fluids with
" irrotational circulation " through the pores of
solids. He imagined in this way a model vortex
gas, and another hydrokinetic model composed of
vortices in a pure liquid. In the latter case the

difficulty about impacts disappeared ; and, more

over, so far as he was then able to ascertain

concerning the vibration of vortices, there no longer
seemed any danger of the translational or impulsive
energies of the individual vortices becoming lost
or frittered away in energy of smaller and smaller

 vibrations.

        GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1035

    The lecture on the Wave Theory of Light, which
Sir William Thomson delivered in Philadelphia on his

way to Baltimore, abounds in hints and references

to the dynamical explanation of the properties of
matter. A few isolated extracts must here suffice.

He was concerned with the relation between the

luminiferous ether and the molecules embedded

in it.

     . . . You can imagine particles of something, the
thing whose motion constitutes light. This thing we call
the luminiferous ether. That is the only substance we are
confident of in dynamics. One thing we are sure of, and
that is the reality and substantiality of the luminiferous

ether. . . . Popular Lectures, vol. i. p. 310.
     . . . So when we explain the nature of electricity, we

explain it by a motion of the luminiferous ether. We

cannot say that it is electricity. What can this lumini
                    It is something
ferous ether be ?                      that the   planets  move
through with the   greatest ease. . .            p. 327.
                                       .--Ibid.

. . . The fundamental question as to whether or not

luminiferous ether has gravity has not been answered.
We have no knowledge that the luminiferous ether is

attracted by gravity ; it is sometimes called imponderable,

because some people vainly imagine that it has no weight.
I call it matter with the same
                                    kind  of rigidity that this
elastic jelly has. --Ibid. p. 329.

In Chapter XX., on the Baltimore Lectures,

p. 835 above, the passage has been cited in which

Lord Kelvin gave as a reason why he could not

accept the electromagnetic theory of light, that he
could not make a model of it. But a probably more
important reason was that Maxwell's theory was
essentially molar, not molecular,1 and did not touch

" 1 Maxwell, in his Treatise, § 260, vol. i. p. 312, once indeed uses the phrase,

   one molecule of electricity," but immediately excuses himself for this lapse

1036              LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                    CHAP.

molecular questions, which Lord Kelvin deemed
absolutely fundamental. Maxwell had assumed that

the mechanical and molecular properties of a
material system are independent of one another,
and capable of being separately regarded ; this Lord
Kelvin implicitly denied. And so he went his own

way, striving to find other explanations, other modes
of handling the problem of the propagation of light
which should be essentially founded l on molecular
dynamics. But it can scarcely be denied that these
lectures give the reader the impression of a powerful
mind struggling with its own convictions, and

hampered by not finding the solution which he was

convinced would be ultimately triumphant. No

sooner were the lectures delivered than he began to
work at supplements to them, and to revise them

for a definitive publication.

    The first fifteen lectures were not materially

altered in the revision, though portions were trans
ferred to them from the later lectures ; but from

Lecture XVI. to the end they were almost entirely

rewritten in the years 1901 to 1903, and their
paragraphs numbered consecutively from this point

onwards. In Lecture XVII. he quoted from his

 1 870 article on the size of atoms (p. 566), a difficulty
then felt in the kinetic theory of gases, as to the

by adding : " This phrase, gross as it                       is,

                                                                             of

                                                                                                    is
                                                             and out harmony with the rest                          is
                                                                                                                       of
this treatise, will enable us at least to state clearly what                                            known about
electrolysis." The words here italicized amply justify-- were justification
needed"--
           the    reserve which Lord              Kelvin felt           anLdecetuxpreressXeIdI..,
                  absolutely certain,"            he said in
1                                                                                                  that  there      a

      It

              is

edleefcintritoemadgynneatmicicatlhetohreyo. r--y  for waves  of light,  to be enriched, not             abolished,  by
                                                  Baltimore  Lectures
                                                                        (1904),  p.  159.

XXIY GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1037

hard and fast demarcation between infinite force

between the atoms when in contact, and zero force

when not in contact, arising from the assumption

of rigid, inelastic atoms. This hypothesis had
seemed to require mitigation. He now wrote that

Boscovich's theory clearly supplies the needed miti
gation, and proceeded to explain the " Boscovich

atoms," which exercise a mutual repulsion at small

distances between centres, and an attraction when

distances between centres exceed a definite limit.

Lecture XVIII., as revised, was devoted wholly

to the reflexion of light, and to the difficulty of

accounting, by the theories of Fresnel and of Green,

for the almost perfect extinction of polarized light
when reflected at the critical angle. He referred to

his own research of 1888  (p.
                                      a
                                                                a
                          872), in which he

found that medium resembling  homogeneous
a

airless foam, held from collapse by adhesion to

containing vessel, would possess a definite rigidity
and elasticity of form, and a definite velocity of

distortional wave, while fulfilling the condition that

had puzzled him so much   1884 of having zero
                          in
                                                               a

velocity for any compressional wave. The difficulty

of accounting for metallic and adamantine reflexion,

and the mathematical artifice for meeting that

difficulty, are considered at length. In Lecture

XIX. the reconciliation of the theory of Fresnel

with that of Green effected, by accepting, in order
a
                   is

                                                                  is,
to explain double-refraction, the hypothesis that the

inertia of crystal may be aeolotropic, that                            have

different values in different directions. Lecture

1038              LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                   CHAP.

XX. was entirely reconstructed by the introduction

of his own newer conceptions as to atoms and ether
occupying the same space at the same time, and
as to electric forces within the molecule, as will

presently be seen.

    The difficulty which Lord Kelvin felt respecting
Maxwell's doctrine of dielectric " displacement " was
frequently mentioned by him. It is referred to in

the following letter to FitzGerald, who in March

1885 had suggested to the Physical Society a
dynamical model of an " ether," in which it was

proposed to represent an electrical displacement by

a change of structure, and not by a mere shifting of

an element of the medium.

                                                                         April, 1885.

    DEAR FITZGERALD -- . . . Any one reading your paper

as it stands would imagine that I had ignored a definite
velocity of propagation for electric impulses. How wrong

this inference would be is illustrated by p. 1 34 line 9
from foot. I think in any case you ought to add to

what you have already quoted from my paper, the last
sentence of page 134 and the first of page 135 contain
ing my reference to Kirchhoff.

    I have never yet felt any satisfaction in Maxwell's

§§ 783, 784, 790, 791, 792, 645, 646, 794, 797, 798,

824 . . . 829. I have never yet met anyone who under

stood a definite dynamical foundation for § 783.
     Is there any chance of your being in London or

Cambridge during May? We are to be in London for

about the first half of the month, and in Cambridge

staying with the Stokes's probably during Whitsun week.
I shall be very glad if we have an opportunity of meet

--ingBseolieavse  to fight or  agree  relatively  to  the waves of light
                   me, yours   very   truly,

                                      WILLIAM THOMSON.

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1039

   In 1887 Sir William Thomson himself enunciated
a Vortex Theory of Luminiferous Ether,1 in which
he gave pictures of assemblages of vortex-rings to

show how they would resist distortion, and so serve

as a medium for the propagation of waves. His
aim was " to construct by given vortex-motion of an

incompressible inviscid liquid, a medium which shall
transmit waves of laminar motion as the luminiferous

ether transmits waves of light."
    In the summer of 1888, while revising the

Baltimore Lectures, Sir William was still perplexed

and haunted by the difficulty of finding an explana
tion for the propagation of electrostatic forces. His
difficulty appears in a post-card which he addressed
to Lord Rayleigh on August 12, 1888, from Glas
gow, where he had gone on the occasion of a visit
of Queen Victoria.

                                                                        G.C. FOR QUEEN,
                                                                               Aug. 22.

      Given two conducting globes oppositely charged (equal
quanty) in blue sky. Let the blue suddenly become con
ductive ; say as conductive as slate or as
marble. The discharge will be along the
lines of the previous electrostatic force, and
e -"·"/« wiH be the time law of subsidence, it
being slow enough for no quasi-inertia.
Where are the " displacement " currents and where the
possibility of expressing the result (with or without
quasi-inertia) by any even pseudo circuits, or imagined

analogues of incomplete circuits ? Alas -- alas, the whole

thing breaks down the first time it is really put on trial.
H. Lamb did find it to fail for such an elementary thing
as electy flowing to equilm, but did not notice that this

         1 Brit. Assoc. Report, 1887 ; Philos. Magazine, Oct. 1887, . . .

1040         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                      CHAP.

failure shows that the formulas he quoted in the beginning
are not " the equans of electromagc induction." He also

             and          from foot) found
                       Maxwell's has been
It(p. 523,                                                                                         + 2=^4, and
                                                                                                pointed out by
      is,
                   11.
                           5

                in

                                6

                                                                                               2
" this peculiarity of

C. Niven."                                                                                        W. T.

            however, possible to frame an explanation

of the case  accordance with Maxwell's theory,

since the subsidence of the electric field will not in

volve any quasi-inertia, except perhaps inter-mole

cular, of which Maxwell's theory takes no cognisance.

    A fortnight later came the British Association

meeting at Bath, where, in the Physical Section
under Professor FitzGerald, there was a great dis
cussion upon electromagnetic matters. Within the

preceding twelve months Hertz had published the

classical researches on electric waves by which he

had experimentally realized that which was essen

tially true  Maxwell's doctrine and had shown
a1

                a in
                                                                                                   ;
                                                                                a
that electric waves can be reflected and refracted

exactly as light waves can, and that they travel at

the same speed. Rowland of Baltimore was present,

and Oliver Lodge (now Sir Oliver). Sir William
Thomson was announced to give two papers, one

of which at least was directed to electromagnetic
questions. He also had, in conjunction with

Professors Ayrton and Perry, prepared                                                                    new
determination1 of the ratio "v."

An excellent account of this discussion was

written by Lodge for The Electrician (vol. xxi.

        Compare pp. 524 and 1022. The result now obtained                                       from measurements
of the capacity of condenser was 2-93 x io10 cm. per                                            second. Rowland
by kindred method had found 2-995 x lol°-

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1041

p. 622, Sept. 21, 1888), from which it appears that,
without abandoning the solid-elastic theory of light

(which in some form or other seems a necessity),

Sir William Thomson was assimilating, while still

criticizing, Maxwell's theory, and rejecting certain
of its excrescences. The main point under dis
cussion related to the mode and rate of propagation

of electrostatic potential as compared with electro

magnetic potential. Lodge's interesting report con

tains the following passage :--

. . . On the last day of the meeting Rowland and Fitz-

Gerald seemed to come to an understanding, but whether

Sir William will coincide with or will upset the whole
                                                           it it,
thing once more, remains to be seen. As they put the
                                                                                    ;

                                                                                       it
                                                                                           is it
matter     now like this The propagation of electrostatic
           it is
                is                                                                                not

                                   a

                                                        :
potential does not go on by end-thrust at all

really analogous to pulse of longitudinal compression,

though     apparently and superficially so and accord
                                                                                 ;

ingly its rate of propagation depends not at all on the

compressibility or incompressibility of the ether, a question
on which has nothing to say one way or the other. An
           it
                         is
                              a
electrostatic field not developed sui generis, but always                           is

the consequence of previously existing electromagnetic

one, which, on subsiding, leaves as its permanent record.

Plainly an electrostatic field cannot arise without the

motion of some electricity, either with or through con
                                                                                 it
           Npowro,pewrthieesne--veirts                                               a

                                                                                               a
ductor.                                                    electricity   moves      at once has
magnetic                                                     motion     generates       magnetic

field. When the motion ceases the field at once subsides,

and in subsiding  may produce succession of diffusing
       a

           ;

                  it
                          it

                            if

                                                          a
and dying away induction currents in neighbouring con

ductors or may, the circuit be an incomplete one,

leave      sptrearimneadneentthevre--stitgheis             of itself    in the dielectric as      a
field                                                       state of    strain being what we
       of

call electrostatic potential, and the field being familiar to

us as an electrostatic field.

1042         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                       CHAP.

Generating it ! in this way, all distinction between rate

of propagation of electrostatic and electromagnetic

potential vanishes, they both travel together with the

velocity of light ; or rather, the thing which travels is the

magnetic potential, and its permanent effect in situ is the

electrostatic potential.

Thus, once more, the difficulty of a longitudinal or

pressural wave disappears from the electrical theory of

light, into which it had seemed to intrude itself, and
left to enjoy " a long and useful career," though                    it
                                                                         is

                                                                            i/r
                                                                                 is
                                                                                       not

permitted an infinite or any other rate of propagation in

its own proper nature. If any one asks how soon will

the pull of a suddenly electrified body be felt at                                     a

distance? one may answer, "As soon as the charging

spark seen." But                      be asked at what rate electro
      is
               is                                          that      does not

                          if

                                  it
static potential travels, the answer                is           it

travel, but  generated in situ by the subsidence of                                    a

magnetic potential which travels with the velocity of light.

    In November 1888, Sir William communicatedp. a         is is
to the Philosophical Magazine a paper " On the
Reflexion and Refraction of Light," in which once1,               in

more he returned to Green's solid-elastic theory,                                   :
endeavouring to argue backwards from the facts of
the propagation of polarized light to the physical
properties which medium must possess order to

account for the known facts. This important paper

has never been reprinted.

    As told on 88 Sir William undertook the

duties of President of the Institution of Electrical

1  I.e. an electrostatic field. Sir Oliver Lodge informs the author that he

would now (1909) restate the matter   somewhat in the      following way               Of the
three vectors at right angles to one  another -- electric   force, magnetic
and motion -- the superposition of                                                       force,
                                      any two necessarily involves the                   third.

Given, therefore, electric and magnetic induction, motion at once follows, and
the wave spreads out with the speed of light. A wave generated by every

electric acceleration, and therefore by             separation of electric charges.
                          is
                                                 a
Whether any permanent result left in the region over which the wave has

travelled, depends upon whether the electric separation    permanent or not.

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1043

Engineers for the year 1889, and wrote to the

Secretary of that body as follows :--

DEAR  MR. WEBB -- I am                      sorry  it      t,th Jany. 1889.
                                                        will be impossible

for me to have anything of my presidential address in

writing. The scientific subject upon which I propose to
speak is " Electricity, Ether, and Ponderable Matter,"

and I hope to show one or at the most two very simple

experiments with my gyrostats to illustrate rotating mole

cules in connection with dynamical theory for magnetism.
But I shall have to state very strongly that the difficulties
in the way of proving a comprehensive dynamical theory
of electricity, magnetism, and light are quite stupendous ;
and that in the present state of science the imagination

is absolutely baffled in attempts to give a mechanical
foundation for explaining great laws of nature on which
the work of the electrical engineer depends.

     I shall call about 1 1 o'clock on Thursday to arrange
about the experiments, for which very little of apparatus,
beyond the gyrostats which I shall bring with me, will be
wanted. Perhaps one of your young men might be able

to assist me in preparing the experiments during the

course of the lecture.        Whatever record of the address is

wanted will depend solely on the short-hand writer.

    I should be much obliged by your letting me have in

the course of a day or two any statement which it is
desirable I should read with reference to the Society

under its late title, and with reference to its future exist

ence under the more appropriately comprehensive name

now chosen for it.

YearR.e--cipIrorceamtianign,  heartilyyour  kind wishes for a Happy New
                              yours truly,     WILLIAM THOMSON.

    There are several salient features in this address.1
In one of these he touched on the velocity "v," in

the following words :--

    1 Journal of  Institution of Electrical Engineers,   vol. xviii.  p.  4,  1889  ;
partly reprinted  in Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. iii.  p. 484.

1044  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                    CHAP.

But its relationship to the velocity of light was brought

out in a manner by Maxwell to make it part of a theory,

which it never was before. Maxwell pointed out its
application to the possible or probable explanation of

ethleacttrtihcateffmecetdsiubmy--thteheinmflueedniucme  of a medium, and showed
light -- must be ether.                                  whose motions constitute

                                           Maxwell's "electromagnetic
theory of light " marks a stage of enormous importance
in electromagnetic doctrine, and I cannot doubt but that

in electromagnetic practice we shall derive great benefit

cfroonmsidaerpautirosnusin. g--oMfatthhe,  theoretical  ideas suggested     by such
                                           and Phys.    Papers, vol. iii.  490.

Then he returned to the solid-elastic theory that

had occupied his thoughts in 1846 (p. 197), and to

the difficulty he had found in the forty-two years

that had since gone by, in finding any further ex
planation. He touched on his recent hydrokinetic

model of the porous elastic solid of small density

having its pores filled with a dense viscous fluid

circulating through                        which would realize dynami
                   a
cally the problems of electromagnetic induction,it,

provided that nothing but electricity and ether had         a
                                                                          a
to be accounted for. But ponderable matter must

be considered also, and there was the mystery that

solid bodies could move freely through the ether.

So he proceeded to describe an imaginary model

ether or medium which should be absolutely mobile

to translational movements, and yet possess rota

tional rigidity. To this end he imagined sort of

network, across the meshes of which were set minute

gyrostats spinning each about its own axis, to give
the structure the necessary immobility.

Thus we have skeleton model of special elastic

xxrv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1045

solid, with a structure essentially involving a gyrostatic

contribution to rigidity. Now do not imagine that a

structure of this kind, gross as it                  necessarily un-
;

                                                                        is,
                                                                    is

                                                                                                                                                     ;
instructive. Look at the structures of living things

think of all we have to explain in electricity and magnet

ism and allow, at least, that there must be some kind

of structure in the ultimate molecules of conductors, non

conductors, magnetic bodies, and non-magnetic bodies, by

which their wonderful properties now known to us, but

not explained, are to be explained. We cannot suppose

all dead matter to be without form or void, and without

any structure its molecules must have some shape they
                      ;                              it
                                                          is
must have some relation to one another.                                    a

So that do not admit that                                                                         ;merely playing at
              I
                                                                                      is
theory, but   it            helping our minds to think of possi
                   is

bilities, by model, however rough and impracticable,
if                    a

we show that structure can be produced which                                                         an
                         a

incompressible frictionless liquid when no gyrostatic

arrangement           is    in  it,  and which acquires                 peculiar

rotational elasticity or rigidity as the effect of introducing

the gyrostats into these squares (ibid. p. 508).

In brief, he had abandoned the solid-elastic theory,

and substituted new one, in which he figured to
a
                 a
himself mathematical ether not corresponding to

any known physical material, which derived its

properties from concealed internal rotations, and

which, while absolutely labile, in the sense that
                                                     is

                                                                is in

                                                                                ; it
was incapable of propagating a compressional wave,

possessed torsional rigidity. This                                      fact corre
1

               a
                        l
sponded exactly to the optical ether suggested in

That MacCullagh's equations for the reflexion and refraction of light

may be interpreted on the supposition that what resisted not deformation

but rotation, was shown by      FpiatpzeGre, ra"ldA  in 1880, and more  fully developed                by
Larmor in 1893 in his great                          Dynamical Theory   of the Electric              and
Luminiferous Medium," in        the Phil. Trans, vol. clxxxv. (Series A), p. 723

wherein also  it      shown that at any point in the medium electrical displace
                  is

ment in the electromagnetic theory corresponds to absolute rotation on

MacCullagh's theory, and magnetic force corresponds similarly to velocity.

1046  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

1829 by MacCullagh, and advocated in 1850 by
Rankine, but rejected at the time precisely because
it did not behave as an elastic solid. This new

hypothesis he expanded in 1889 in papers read to
the Academie des Sciences and to the Royal Society
of Edinburgh, " On a Gyrostatic Adynamic Consti
tution for Ether."

     But even this brilliant suggestion did not satisfy
Sir William Thomson. He had turned the optical
difficulty and had reconciled Green and Fresnel with
truth ; but the existence of electrostatic force was

still unexplained, likewise the mutual attraction
between the iron of an electromagnet and its keeper ;

nor had he solved the puzzle that the ether must
permit solid bodies to move with perfect freedom
through it. So when he ended his address to the
Electrical Engineers in 1889 he had still to confess

that " the difficulties are so great in the way of
forming anything like a great comprehensive theory,

that we cannot even imagine a finger-post pointing

a way that can lead towards the explanation."
     But now another turn was coming in the evolu

tion of the theory, by the slowly-forming decision 1
that the vortex theory of atoms, at least in the form
in which it had been enunciated, must be abandoned.

    1 In the late autumn of 1883 when Sir William Thomson lectured in
Newcastle on atoms and vortex-rings, he and Lady Thomson were the guests
of Dr. J. Theodore Merz, from whom he received a copy of the then newly-
published Adams Prize Essay of Professor (now Sir Joseph J.) Thomson on
Vortex Atom Rings. He travelled back to Glasgow with Dr. Harvey
Goodwin, Bishop of Carlisle, with whom he keenly discussed the work. It

 was some three years later, when revisiting Newcastle to see the early form
of Parsons's steam-turbine, that he told Dr. Merz that the vortex-atom theory
did not realize his expectations, inasmuch as it did not explain inertia or
gravitation.

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1047

Lord Kelvin has himself told us of this conclusion
in the following words --: "

    It now seems to me certain that if any motion be

given within a finite portion of an infinite incompressible
liquid originally at rest, its fate is necessarily dissipation
to infinite distances with infinitely small velocities every
where ; while the total kinetic energy remains constant.

IAfter many years of failure to prove that the motion in the

ordinary Helmholtz circular ring is stable, came to the
conclusion that it is essentially unstable, and that its fate
must be to become dissipated as now described. I came to
this conclusion by extensions not hitherto published of
the considerations described in a short paper entitled :
" On the Stability of Steady and Periodic Fluid Motion,"
in the Phil. Mag. for May 1887.

    He had, however, a gleam of light. Still brooding
over his fateful paper of 1847, and the possible

mechanical representations which he had then
" reserved for a future paper," he began over again
to consider an ideal ether which, though incom

pressible, should have no distortional rigidity, but

only an inherent quasi-elastic (gyrostatic) resistance

to rotation. He found it to furnish a perfect sub

stitute for the ordinary incompressible elastic solid

as to equilibrium and motion throughout the
interior, but having a vital difference in respect of

the action at any interface between two portions

     1 Proc. Roy. Sac. Edin. voL xxv. p. 565, footnote, June 20, 1904. The
words now italicized in the quotation must be regarded as Lord Kelvin's
                                                             Writing in
renunciation of his hypothesis of the   vortex-atom.     "                 1898   to
Professor Silas W. Holman, Lord Kelvin   had said :         I am afraid  that it  is

not possible to explain all the properties of matter by the vortex-atom   theory
alone, that is to say, merely by motion of an incompressible fluid ; and
                                                                          I have

not found it helpful in respect to crystalline configurations, or electrical,
Ichemical, or gravitational forces. . . . We may expect the time will come

when we shall understand the nature of an atom. With great regret abandon

the idea that a mere configuration of motion suffices."

1048 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

having different rigidities of the kind considered.
And now he was able, by aid of the idea of a

circuital displacement of a portion forming in itself
a closed curve, to represent magnetic force by the

tangential drag on the surrounding medium. If

such displacements were periodic in time, the kinetic

result would be a propagation of magnetic waves.
" We have thus simply the undulatory theory of
light, as an inevitable consequence of believing that
the displacement of elastic solid, by which in my
old paper I gave merely a ' representation ' of the

electric currents and the corresponding magnetic
forces, is a reality." But even so, the theory was

incomplete. He had won a step forward by suppos
ing all space filled with a plenum endowed with
mechanical properties, it is true, but not with those
of an ordinary elastic solid or an ordinary incom

pressible fluid ; an ideal ether, satisfactory for optics

at least, but unsatisfactory as a basis for an all-

embracing theory. It did not represent electrostatic
forces ; it did not explain why currents heat their
conductors ; it did not prove that the velocity of
light in ether is " v." How then did Thomson

at this date, 1890, propose to escape from the

intellectual impasse? Let his own words tell :--

    All this essentially involves the consideration of

ponderable matter permeated by, or embedded in ether,
and a tertium quid, which we may call electricity, a fluid
go-between, serving to transmit force between ponderable
matter and ether, and to cause by its flow the molecular
motions of ponderable matter which we call heat. I see
no way of suggesting properties of matter, of electricity

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1049

or of ether, by which all this, or any more than a very

slight approach to can be done, and think we must
                                     it,
                                              is
                                                               a

                                                                I

                                                                                   p.
                                                                                   a
feel at present that the triple alliance, ether, electricity,

and ponderable matter                   rather result of our want of

knowledge and of capacity to imagine beyond the limited

pnaretuseren.t--hMoaritzho,n     of    physical science,    than                           reality    of
                              and    Phys. Papers, vol.   iii.                       465.

     Note, in this remarkable pronouncement, thea

implication of the failure of the vortex-atom theory
to explain --apart from something " which we may
call electricity" -- the properties of matter. He
knew--none better than he -- that electricity whirling

around generated magnetic force along the axis of

its spin. If his supposed ether were not the same

thing as free electricity, its whirls would not act

magnetically and                     were not the same thing, how
;

        ? if

             it
                                                        is

                                                                                                   :
explain magnetism                    His suggestion now                                               bring

in electricity as "a fluid go-between, serving to

transmit force " between matter and ether.

    " Looking back on this, however," observes Sir
Joseph Larmor,1 " one can see that the electron

was not far off." Nevertheless the time was not

come and so with this suggestive forecast the great
p.
     1
                ;

                                a
                                                   a

                                                                                                                     2

                                                                                             in
comprehensive theory goes out of sight for ten years.

But while the search for dynamical mechanism

which should explain light, elasticity, gravity, electri

city, and magnetism was thus in abeyance, Thomson
broke out into new activities. In connection with

his suggestion of foam-like structure for ether,

the winter of 1887-88, he had considered how space

    Obituary notice           of Lord Kelvin,  Prtx. Koy. Soc.  vol. Ixxxi. (Series A),
68.                                                                              H

VOL. II

LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

might be so divided out into a system of adjacent
cells that the total partitional area between cells of

a given volume should be a minimum ; and, guided
by experiments l on soap bubbles, he discovered,
apparently to his surprise, that the form which
fulfilled this condition was neither the cube, the

octahedron, nor yet the rhombic dodekahedron, but
the tetrakaidekahedron, with eight of its faces
hexagons and six of them squares, resembling a
cube with its corners truncated, and with all the

edges slightly curved. His "green books" for many
months from this time are full of sketches and calcu

lations respecting the geometrical and physical
properties of assemblages of cells, or units, of this
and other shapes. Deeper and deeper he dived

into the matter, trying to assimilate all that was
known of the systems of crystallography, of planes
of cleavage, of twinning, of the integrating molecules
of Haiiy, of the slipping-planes of Reusch, of the
nets of points imagined by Bravais, in fact all that
pertained to the physical properties of matter in the

crystalline state.

     Then, in July 1889, he read to the Royal Society
of Edinburgh a paper,- destined, surely, to become
a classic in physics, entitled " The Molecular Con
stitution of Matter." He began by a definition of

crystalline structure, declaring that any homo
 geneous isotropic solid, such as glass, was but an
 isotropically macled crystal. Then he considered a

                         1 See the narrative, p. 870, supra.
* Reprinted in Math, and Phys. Papers, vol. iii. p. 395, 1890.

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1051

homogeneous assemblage of points, each surrounded
by a cell, all space being partitioned out into assem
blages of cells, each cell a polyhedron of interfaces.
Turning next to Father Boscovich's theory, that the
ultimate atoms of matter are points endowed each
with inertia, and with mutual repulsions or attrac
tions, dependent only on mutual distances, he dis
cussed the question of the equilibrium and stability
of groups of two, three, four, or more atoms. This
gave a basis for a Boscovichian kinetic theory of
crystals, of liquids, and of gases. In a mere
irregular random crowd of molecules it would be
difficult to imagine equilibrium, either static or

kinetic. Such a crowd might be a liquid -- but
scarcely a solid. The molecular tactics of crystals

depended on certain geometric principles of arrange
ments which Bravais had laid down on the doctrine
of homogeneous assemblages, in which planes of
symmetrically distributed points were regarded as
rdseaux or networks. Problems of closest packing
in assemblages of globes, like piled shot, or of ellip
soids, were readily treatedgeometrically. The artificial
twinning of Iceland-spar, and the allied phenomena
of changes of crystalline structure by pressure,
could be accounted for by supposing slip to occur
along planes of assemblage. Mathematical inves
tigations of the conditions of equilibrium in such as

semblages were reserved ; but models were described
and shown, to realize elastic solids, both incompres
sible and compressible, by bows of bent steel wire
linked together by rings, and supported by tie-struts.

1052  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                     CHAP.

    At the British Association Meeting at Newcastle

in September a further paper on the same subject

was given by Sir William. Of this a contemporary
account by Lodge appeared in The Electrician

(vol. xxiii. p. 544).

The other communication I have referred to, that on

Boscovich's theory, might have been called the Mechanics

of Crystallography, or Molecular Statics. It was a

powerful and acute piece of pure mechanical reasoning,

showing how a great number of the extraordinary

behaviours of crystals, including some only recently

discovered, and some which at first hearing seem quite

incredible, can be accounted for by imagining the mole

cules built up according to a certain law of force between

the parts, a force attractive at some distances, repulsive at

others, and not specially contemplating or troubling

about how the  forces arise,   nor  of what    the substance  of
the molecules  is composed          treating  them, in fact,
                               --                             as

abstract centres of force (which they certainly are, how
ever much else they also be) and ignoring their inertia,
very much as Boscovich in his century-old memoir did.

Crystals of various orders, hemihedral crystals, crystals

with a periodic structure, and consequent curious selective

reflexion for light, crystals that can be sheared, and

molecules that are liable to fly to pieces and detonate,

were all referred to, and models built up of spiral springs

were used to illustrate them.

    Further considerations with a Boscovichian ex

planation of the modulus of elasticity were given in

February 1890 to the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
Later, he wrote to Lord Rayleigh of matters in his
mind :--

                               THE UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW, Nov. 18/90.

    DEAR LORD RAYLEIGH. . . .-- Did you ever remark
that if the density of ether changes as it moves across the

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1053

interface between glass and vacuum, or between any two

transparent bodies, in its actual vibrations of light, and

if it is otherwise uninfluenced by ponderable matter, and
if the rigidity is equal on the two sides of the interface,

we have exactly Fresnel's laws of polarization by re

fraction and reflection ?

And if besides we have, for ether within the space of

a ponderable body, a resistance to its motion relative to

the ponderable matter, equal to the velocity multiplied by

a coefficient which for different metallic bodies is pro

portional to the density of the ether in them, and for

transparent non-conductors is zero, we have Maxwell's

equations of electromagnetic induction. This makes the

electric  ecthoenrduicntivitit!y--oYfoaurms ettraullyp, roportional  to the density
of the

                           WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Three years passed, and then came in May 1893
the Royal Institution discourse on Isoperimetrical
Problems ; illustrated by the problem of Queen
Dido of Carthage, how to enclose the largest area
of territory by an ox-hide cut into an exceedingly
long strip, and by the problem of Horatius Codes,
whose patriotism was rewarded with a grant of as
much land as he could plough round in a day. In
Lord Kelvin's hands these two problems of classical

antiquity furnished the text for a discourse on
Lagrange's Calculus of Variations, and Hamilton's
principle of Least Action, leading to the geodetic
exercise how to draw the shortest possible line

between two given points on a curved surface.
Pappus, who praised the honey-bee for its know
ledge of the geometrical truth that a hexagon can
enclose more honey than a square or a triangle with
equal quantities of building material in the walls,

1054 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                         CHAP.

had originated the term isoperimetrical, which now

serves to denote that large province of mathematical

and engineering science in which different figures

having equal perimeters, or different paths between

two given points, are compared in connection with

definite questions of greatest efficiency or least cost,

extending even to such questions as the proper
laying-out of a railway line in a hilly country, or the

dynamical relations between curvature and centri

fugal force in the motion of a particle.1 A few days

later this was followed by the delivery, to the Oxford

University Junior Scientific Club, of the Robert
Boyle Lecture" for the year 1893, on ^e Molecular

Tactics of a Crystal. Under this title the geometry
of crystalline structure was portrayed in great

detail, with discussion of the boundaries of the par

titioning cells3 drawn around the integrating mole

cules. The most general form of cell was not the
parallelepiped but the tetrakaidekahedron. The

closest packing of spheres or ellipsoids in a heap

left but three degrees of freedom of strain, instead
of the six presented by a natural solid ; and any

distortion of the mass broke some of the contacts

and brought about an expansion of                                                   This was in
                                                      in I
effect the dilatancy observed by Osborne Reynolds
                                                            a
in sacks filled with corn, sand, or small shot.
                                                               it.
     "if" hope you found31  my       tlheectuaruedieinnctee.resti"ng,"amhesusareid   afterwards  to Lord
                            of                                              ;       we should,   my dear
Alverstone, who was oneI
Lord        Kelvin," was the reply,        we had understood it."
     -      Reprinted in Baltimore   Lectures (1904), Appendix H,                   p.  602.

JanuarHye18a9m4,pli"fieOdn  this part of the  subject   of  SpacReoy"al             Society   paper in
                            the Homogeneous   Division                              wherein  the reader

will find discussions of the transformation of the parallelepiped into the
                                                                                                 Inci
tetrakaidekahedron,         and of the relation of both to the tetrahedron.

dentally contains also the theory of the designing of wall-paper patterns.
            it

xx1v GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1055

Passing on to the subject of twinning, attention was
drawn to the beautiful phenomena of internal

coloured iridescent reflecting planes observed in
some crystals of chlorate of potash, and due to a

periodically-twinned structure. A reference to the

" chirality " of quartz crystals -- according to which

some of them are right-handed and others left-
handed in their growth -- and a suggested explana

tion of the same, completed the discourse. A

mathematical discussion of the elasticity of a crystal,

according to Boscovich, presented to the Royal
Society in June and July 1893, carried the subject a
little further ; and at the British Association meet

ing in the following September a further extension
to elucidate from geometry of structure the pyro-

electric and piezo-electric properties of quartz and

tourmaline was made.

    In 1893 was published a translation by Professor
D. E. Jones of Hertz's collected researches --
 Untersuchungen iiber die Ausbreitung der Elektris-
chen Kraft, to which, on the suggestion of Lord
Kelvin, was prefixed the English title of Electric
 Waves. For this volume J Lord Kelvin himself
wrote as Preface a striking appreciation. He asked

the readers to carry their minds back to the time

when Newton's doctrine of universal gravitation led

to the general belief (not shared by Newton him
self) that gravitation and other forces will act

1 Electric Waves, being Researches on the Propagation of Electric Action
with finite Velocity through Space, by Dr. lleinrich Hertz. Authorised
                                                                        Kelvin,
Knglish  translation by  D. E. Jones, H.Sc.,  with a  Preface  by Lord
                         London: Macmillan    & Co.,   1893.
I.L.D.,  D.C.L., etc.

1056 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

between bodies at a distance without the require
ment of any intervening medium. Newton's well-
known repudiation (in his letter of 1692 to Bentley)
of this as an absurdity, was then contrasted with the
" infinitely improbable theory " of Father Boscovich,
in which all the properties of matter (except heat)
were explained solely by action at a distance, by
mutual repulsions and attractions between mathe

matical points. Though Boscovich's theory had

been unqualifiedly accepted as a reality before the
end of the eighteenth century, a reaction set in in
the middle of the nineteenth century, after Faraday's
discovery of specific inductive capacity ; and before

Faraday's death, in 1867, the notion that electric force

is propagated by a medium called ether was generally
accepted by the rising generation of scientific men.

Lord Kelvin then continued : --

Absolutely nothing has hitherto been done for gravity

either by experiment or observation towards deciding

between Newton and Bernoulli, as to the question of its

propagation through a medium, and up to the present

time we have no light, even so much as to point a way

for investigation in that direction. But for electricity and

magnetism Faraday's anticipations and Clerk Maxwell's

splendidly-developed theory have been established on the

sure basis of experiment by Hertz's work, of which his

...own most interesting account is now presented to the
English reader.  It was by sheer perseverance in

philosophical experimenting that Hertz was led to dis

cover a finite velocity of propagation of electromagnetic

action, and then to pass on to electromagnetic waves in

air and their reflexion. . . .

    Readers of the present volume will, I am sure, be

pleased if I call their attention to two papers by Prof.

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1057

G. F. FitzGerald, which I heard myself at the meeting of
the British Association at Southport in 1883 One of
them is entitled, " On a Method of producing Electro

magnetic Disturbances of comparatively Short Wave
lengths." The paper itself is not long, and I quote it

here in full, as it appeared in the Report of the British

Association, 1883: "This is by utilising the alternating

currents produced when an accumulator is discharged
                             It is possible to produce
through a small resistance.

waves of as little as two metres' wave-length, or even

less." This was a brilliant and useful suggestion. Hertz,

not knowing of used the method and making as little
as possible of the " accumulator," got waves of as little as
twenty-four centimetres' wave-length in many of his funda
            is             ;
                      it,
mental experiments. The title alone of the other paper,I
" On the Energy lost by Radiation from Alternating
                                               it ;
Currents,"  in itself a valuable lesson in the electro

magnetic theory of light, or the undulatory theory of

magnetic disturbance. The reader of the present volume

will be interested in comparing                      with the title of

Hertz's Eleventh Paper but cannot refer to this paper

without expressing the admiration and delight withI
which see the words " rectilinear propagation," " polar
ization," " reflection," " refraction," appearing in as sub
                                                     it

titles.

During the fifty-six years which have passed since

Faraday first offended physical mathematicians with his

curved lines of force, many workers and many thinkers
have helped to build up the nineteenth century school of

plenum^ one ether for light, heat, electricity, magnetism
                           a

                                                                    is
                                                                                                                     ;
and the German and English volumes containing Hertz's

electrical papers, given to the world in the last decade
of the century, will be permanent monument of the

splendid consummation now realised.

Lord Kelvin's omission to refer to himself

as having had any part in the building up of

that nineteenth century school of thought                as

1058  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                               CHAP.

noteworthy as his recognition       of Maxwell's
" splendidly-developed theory."

In Lord Kelvin's Presidential Address of Nov

ember 1893 to tne Royal Society, he had much to
say that bore upon the foundations of physics. In
the first place, he announced as " not the least

important of the scientific events of the year," the

publication of Hertz's collection of papers on
Electric Waves, and he repeated, almost verbatim,

the appreciation which he had just written as the

Preface to that work. Then, as if to check his own
enthusiasm, he continued :--

But, splendid as this consummation  we must not
a

                                                          ;

                                             it
                                                      it
                                                          is

                                                                                     a
                                                                                        is,

                                                                                                          is
fold our hands and think or say there are no more worlds

to conquer for electrical science. We do know something

now of magnetic waves. We know that they exist in

nature and that they are in perfect accord with Maxwell's

beautiful theory. But this theory teaches us nothing of

the actual motions of matter constituting a magnetic

wave. Some definite motion of matter perpendicular to

the lines of alternating magnetic force in the waves and

to the direction of propagation of the action through

space, there must be and seems almost satisfactory as

hypothesis to suppose that  chiefly motion of ether

with a comparatively small but not inconsiderable loading

by fringes of ponderable molecules carried with it. This
makes Maxwell's " electric displacement " simply a to-and-

fro motion of ether across the line of propagation, that

to say, precisely the vibrations in the undulatory theory of

light according to Fresnel. But we have as yet absolutely

no guidance towards any understanding or imagining of

the relation between this simple and definite alternating

motion, or any other motion or displacement of the

ether, and the  --eartliheest-kenleocwtrnificapthioennomoef namatotfer  electricity
and magnetism                                                             and the

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1059

 attractions and repulsions of electrified bodies ; the per
 manent magnetism of lodestonc and steel, and the attrac
 tions and repulsions due to it : and certainly we are quite
 as far from the clue to explaining, by ether or otherwise,
the enormously greater forces of attraction and repulsion
now so well known after the modern discovery of electro-
 magnetism.

     Having thus restated his sense of the need of a
more comprehensive dynamical theory, he struck

a new vein of thought :--

     Fifty years ago it became strongly impressed on my
mind that the difference of quality between vitreous and

resinous electricity, conventionally called positive and
negative, essentially ignored as it is in the mathematical

theories of electricity and magnetism with which I was

then much occupied (and in the whole science of magnetic
waves as we have it now), must be studied if we are to
learn anything of the nature of electricity and its place
among the properties of matter.

    He then went on to enumerate the effects in

which the vitreous and resinous electricity appear to
be fundamentally distinct from one another : fric-

tional electricity ; electro-chemistry ; pyro-electricity ;
and piezo-electricity of crystals ; electric glow, brush
and spark discharges ; also in the vast difference of
behaviour of the positive and negative electrodes of
the electric arc lamp. He referred to Faraday's
investigations of discharge in vacuo, to his discovery
of the "dark space" in the discharge, and to his
remark : " The results connected with the different
conditions of positive and negative discharge will
have a far greater influence on the philosophy of
electric science than we at present imagine." He

1060  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

reviewed the researches upon the electric dis

charge in vacuo of a number of recent workers, in
cluding Gassiot, Pliicker, Cromwell Varley, Crookes,

Schuster, Joseph J. Thomson, and Fleming.

Varley's discovery in 1871 of the molecular torrent
from the negative pole, and Crookes's long con

tinued train of brilliant discoveries came in for

special mention. The radiometer ; the kathode-

discharge in a high vacuum ; the molecular torrent

projected from the negative pole, with its mechani

cal, thermal, magnetic, and phosphorescent pro

perties ; the electrical evaporation of negatively
electrified liquids and solids ; the convergence of
the kathode beam from the concave kathode of a

focus-tube ; the mutual repulsion between two

parallel kathode -beams, all were enthusiastically

referred to. He concluded thus :--

    In the whole train of Crookes' investigations on the
radiometer, the viscosity of gases at high exhaustions, and
the electric phenomena of high vacuums, ether seems to
have nothing to do except the humble function of showing
to our eyes something of what the atoms and molecules
are doing. The same confession of ignorance must be

made with reference to the subject dealt with in the

important researches of Schuster and J. J. Thomson on

the passage of electricity through gases. Even in
Thomson's beautiful experiments showing currents pro
duced by circuital electromagnetic induction in complete
poleless circuits, the presence of molecules of residual gas
or vapour seems to be tlie essential. It seems certainly
true that without the molecules there could be no current,
and that without the molecules electricity has no meaning.

But in obedience to logic I must withdraw one expression
I have used. We must not imagine that " presence of

xx1v GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1061if,

Imolecules is the essential." It is certainly an essential.a
                   is      is
Ether also is certainly an essential, and certainly has
more to do than merely to telegraph to our eyes to tell;

;us of what the molecules and atoms are about. If a first

step towards understanding the relations between ether
and ponderable matter is to be made, it seems to me that
the most hopeful foundation for it is knowledge derived
from experiment on electricity in high vacuum ; and
as believe true, there good reason for hoping to see
this step made, we owe debt of gratitude to the able and
persevering workers of the last forty years who have given
us the knowledge we have and we may hope for more and
more from some of themselves and from others encouraged
by the fruitfulness of their labours to persevere in the work.

    Two years more went by, and though others had
been working on the recondite problems of the
ultimate theory of matter and ether, Lord Kelvin
had made no further utterance. At the close of the

year 1895 came Rontgen's startling discovery of
the new rays generated in a high vacuum by the
impact of the kathode torrent upon some solid
target rays that will penetrate even opaque solid
bodies. Lord Kelvin's interest in this new revela

tion was intense, and he discussed keenly with
Stokes and others Rontgen's conjecture that these
rays might consist of condensational waves in the
ether. He himself favoured the suggestion, but
saw tremendous difficulties in the way. Several
letters written in the spring of the year 1896 show
the zest with which he contemplated the bearing
of the new discovery upon the ultimate problem
of physics. They were addressed respectively to
Professor Oliver Lodge (then in Liverpool), Sir

1062 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                 CHAF.

George Stokes, Professor Leahy, and Professor

FitzGerald.

                                                                         February 4, 1 896.

    DEAR LODGE -- I thank you for your letter of yester
day and accompanying prints. I had read them in the

Electrician and thought of calling your attention to
" between Hittorf and Crookes."  It is curious how

generally it has been overlooked, how neatly and thor

oughly Varley hit it off in respect to the molecular

torrent from the Cathode, and left nothing to hit off

about it except what has now been done by Perrin

(whose paper I got Lockyer to put into last week's
Nature) : not to speak of the brilliant and splendid
and instructive demonstrations by Crookes of his own

independent discovery of it.
    Do you remark how the nonsense about the " Cathode

(undulatory) ray" and perverse rejection of Varley and
Crookes (started I suppose by Hittorf and Goldstein but
adopted by every one except Helmholtz, that I know of

in Germany, including strange to say, Hertz and Lenard),

has utterly lost to Lenard the discovery of the Rontgen

New Light ? I am glad to see that you go for Hertz in

this matter, but I think, in all probability he would have

come right in it if he had lived and had fallen in with

either Varley's or Crookes' papers ; but I suppose his

pupil Lenard, although very strong and persevering, has

more of the German narrowness than Hertz. However I

don't judge because of course we have already great

things from Lenard (from Hertz's initiation) and may
expect more and more from himself. I tried hard, but

in vain, to get him to come to Ipswich and told him

I wanted to fight him on the Kathodenstrom but that
I was ready to call    it Kathodenj/ra/// if he
                                                  could    give
convincing reason for  his view. -- Yours truly,

                                                  KELVIN.

...DEAR STOKES --                          February 24, 1896.

                       I have been trying almost in

cessantly since some time before Nov. 28, 1846 (Art.

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1063

XXVII. Vol. I. of my Mathematical and Physical Papers)

for a mec\\z.n\ca\-dyna»iical representation of electrostatic
force, but hitherto quite in vain. Many others, including
Maxwell, have tried more or less for the same, but with no
approach to a glimpse of what might become a success.
It seems highly probable that there may be longitudinal
waves in ether, but hitherto this idea does not help us
to explain electrostatic force.

    As to the Rontgen light, what you say of high
frequency seems to me of very great importance, but
you need not confine it to " transversal vibrations." It
is equally applicable to waves of longitudinal vibrations
if there are any in ether. Excessively high frequency
gives, according to the molecular theory which I learned

from you before 1852, the same propagational velocity in

all transparent mediums as in vacuum.

                                                                       March 6, 1896.

DEAR PROF. LEAHY -- I am sorry to have been pre

vented day after day from answering your letter of the

i2s7tshi.mplyThethiesx:p--lanTahteionattroafctmioyn  sentence which you quote
                                                     of rubbed amber or lode-

stone is exhibited in virtue of their freedom to move, which

they could not have if they were embedded in an elastic solid.

Pulsating spheres, or other vibrating bodies on a fluid

are free to move : and thus they show the attractions and

repulsions due to vibration described by Faraday, Schell-

bach and Guthrie and others ; and can be conceived as

capable of showing the attractions and repulsions investi

gated by various writers on theoretical hydrokinetics.

Perforated solids with irrotational circulation of a liquid

through the perforations are free to move, and ideally

could show the forces described in §§ 733-738 of my
Electrostatics and Magnetism ; and a long pivoted body is

free to show the directional tendency described in §§
739, 740. None of those cases of fluid motion however

help us in the slightest degree to a physical explanation

of magnetic forces.

1064         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                             CHAP.

"IYou say in your letter of the 27th,        am aware that
at present a hydrodynamical theory holds the field." I

cannot agree with this. No one has come within a

million miles of explaining any one phenomenon of

electrostatics or magnetism by hydrodynamical theory.

No mechanical or physical theory of any kind holds the

field, though we have really a wonderfully good know

ledge of the matter   of fact  laws of    oeflecptrhoesntoamticesnaa. --nd
magnetism through    a vast    variety

Believe me, yours very truly,                KELVIN.

                                                                      March 7, 1896.

DEAR FITZGERALD -- . . . Meantime as to the

Rontgen light, I am more and more disposed to think
it is extreme ultra-violet light of transverse vibrations,

and I believe Stokes, with whom I have had a good deal

of correspondence within these last three weeks,                  is,

think, also much inclined to the same view.                         aI

I     was much interested in your last letter about electric

action in the neighbourhood of a discharged air condenser.

One   thing   at all events of my   rude   pencilling      see you
have  quite  convinced yourself of        the subject       almost
                                    --"
                     I
                                       :

                                             I
                                                       is I
infinitely difficult." And think you and may almost
agree to delete the " almost." As to what takes place in

the axis in each of my two diagrams,      either longitudinal
                               is
                                   a

                                          it
                                              a is

                                                   A is
vibrations or what Stokes calls " push," which equivalent

to instantaneous transmission of pressure.             rigid globe

suddenly set to vibrate to and fro in straight line in an

incompressible elastic solid        mechanical illustration,

but does not come within a million miles of being

dynamical representation or realisation of either electro
static or electromagnetic action of any kind. . . .·-- Yours

very truly,                                  KELVIN.

                                                           April 9, 1896.

DEAR FITZGERALD -- have been prevented each day
      I
                          it

                            I
since received  from answering your letter of the 4th

by unpostponable affairs, of which trying to find out

something more about ether and electrostatic stress and

XXIT GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1065

magnetism has been one, and (a closely allied subject),
a report on india-rubber tyres another.

    I certainly intend to add some annotations or appen

dices to my Baltimore Lectures before republication. But
there will be nothing to qualify or unsay in respect to

page 9 (except perhaps lines1 13-19). And I am begin

ning now to be more hopeful in respect to the last com
pleted paragraph of that page. I thin k the " ether " of Article

XCIX of my collected Mathematical and Physical Papers,
with perhaps a density (see Art. CIV of M.P.P.) greater

than io~12, and a virtual rigidity greater than 9 X IO8, may
really help, and may explain, not explain away, the ideas
for ether suggested in B.L. page 10. But whether my
to-day's hopes or my despair of the day before yesterday

may be to be fulfilled, the paragraph beginning at the foot
of page 8 and the succeeding paragraph of page 9 are to

be maintained uncompromisingly. It is mere nihilism,

having no part or lot in Natural Philosophy, to be con

tented with two formulas for energy, electromagnetic and

electrostatic, and to be happy with a vector and delighted
with a page of symmetrical formulas. " debt nur

ein Wort (Mephistopheles) Ein wurdiges Pergament !

(Wagner)."

    I have not had a moment's peace or happiness in

respect to electromagnetic theory since Nov. 28, 1846

(see vol. i. p. 80 of M.P.P.}. All this time I have been

liable to fits of ether dipsomania, kept away at intervals

only by rigorous abstention from thought on the subject.

I have been very nearly free from attacks for nearly a

year, thanks to Maxwell-Boltzmann and Electrification of
Air, till Rontgen's discovery brought on a fearful paroxysm

which has lasted without intermission since the beginning
of January. I have some hopes that this may be the last

attack. This morning I have seen that detached portions

of " ether " within steel could not but give it the magnetic
retentiveness which it has. Poisson's " coercive force " is

I1 To make what  meant clearer: in line 16, after       "electric" insert
"waves with," and in line 17 delete "as" (see heading,  p. 45). And in
line 17, for "simple vibrations" substitute "waves."
VOL. II                                                         2I

1066  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                       CHAP.

simply resistance against sliding between "ether" and

ponderable matter.
     The greatest of my difficulties to get something to

wards a physical theory out of the " mechanical repre

sentation " (M.P.P. Art. XXVII) up to now has been the

steel magnet. Next greatest perhaps has been electro

static stress : next greatest perhaps magnetic induction of
currents. The greatest of all was the mobility of magnets

and electrified bodies, showing the ponderomotive forces
experienced by them in virtue of the rigidity of the ether
in which they are embedded. But this difficulty (?) is

annulled by the ether of Article XCIX, which acts as an

incompressible liquid except in so far as its virtual

rigidity is called into play by frictionality between it and
ponderable matter. The generation of heat by a current

through a conductor only adds to electromagnetic theory

all the difficulties of the kinetic theory of heat which
seem to render nobody unhappy. But, alas ! even if we con

sider this and all those other difficulties as now annulled,

another arises which  may     be greater than all the rest
                       is it  that the molecules of air or
put together :-- How

other gas tearing through ether at velocities of 500 metres
per sec. or thereabout stiffen it to resist electrostatic stress,

and have much less of stiffening effect or perhaps a

weakening instead of a stiffening effect when their average

velocities are about a i ooo    metres per second ? (E.
Becquerel, " On the Electrical  Conductivity of Gases at

high Temperatures," Phil. Mag. Dec. 1853.) Apropos
of this, remark that no experiment hitherto published gives

us the slightest evidence as to whether there is or is not

a measurable current of electricity between two metals

kept at a difference of potentials of I volt, too volts,

I ooo volts or 20,000 volts in the nearest approach to
                                        If I am wrong
vacuum hitherto produced artificially.

give me reference. Meantime Bottomley is arranging to

answer by experiment in vacuums down to the 1 5oth of a
millionth of an atmosphere of gas not collapsible in the

M'Leod gauge.       to  your    letter :--With  reference  to
     Returning now

xxrv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1067

page 45 of proof of B.L. :-- True displacement of the ether

there must be according to the undulatory theory of light

perpendicular to the direction of propagation and per

pendicular to the axis of rotational motion and of dis

tortion of the ether. We all agree that the axis of rotation

and distortion is really and not merely nihilistically a line

of magnetic force. The line of displacement in transverse

waves is somehow closely connected with electrostatic

force. Witness the production of a spark between the

ends of a wire bent into a ring round a solenoid when

the ends of the ring touch or nearly touch one another,

and when a current through the solenoid is suddenly

stopped. But there is also certainly a displacement of

matter in the line joining the centres of the spheres

in the case which I recently suggested in Nature, etc. for

consideration.

     You will see on page 45, I am very cautious and
merely speak of " probable " in respect to condensational

waves in ether. There is certainly some displacement

of matter in the direction of electrostatic force, but

whether it is displacement of ether or displacement of

electricity relatively to ether, or displacement of ether and

electricity together, we cannot say. Certain it is that the

energy of electrostatic force is not simply energy of a

stressed homogeneous elastic solid. Your two queries
which you " hope " I " will not answer." ( i ) Referring
    spherical waves of transverse vibrations
to                                              and to page 64
of  print of B.L. :-- Consider a shell between   two concentric

spherical surfaces very distant from the source, and take

the portion of this shell a quadrilateral of nodal cones.

Let the distance between two spherical surfaces be a

small fraction of the wave-length, and let every diameter
of the quadrilateral be very large in comparison with the

wave length. The phase of the motion is the same

throughout the quadrilateral shell. The diminution of

the amplitude of the vibration from maximum in the

middle of the shell to zero at every part of the boundary

implies infinitesimal thickenings and thinnings in different

parts of the shell to keep its volume constant. The case

  1068             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                 CHAP.

  is precisely analogous to longitudinal waves or vibrations

  in        a straight stretched wire. Nobody    (not even          Jaumann,
            suppose,) would puzzle himself into   speaking          of trans
  I

  verse vibrations in this case, when he thinks of the

  thickening of the wire in one part and the thinning in

  another, due to shortenings and stretchings ; provided the

  wave-length is very great in comparison with the diameter

  of the wire. But people have puzzled themselves with

  the case of wave-length moderate in comparison with
  the diameter, and have not quite seen what to make of
            a

                   it

                           is
                                                                             is

                                                            I

                                                                                                     it,
  though           really obvious enough. The mathematical

  problem, involving columnar harmonics as have called
  them, " Fourier- Bessel Functions " for wave-lengths neither

  very great nor very small in comparison with the diameter

  of wire or rod of circular section,            really interesting.

  It gives a velocity of propagation intermediate between

  the Young's modulus velocity and the velocity of the con-

  densational-rarefactional wave. The extreme case of

  wave-lengths very small in comparison with the diameter

            simply the well-known condensational - rarefactional
  is
wave in an infinite solid.it

--           Your    query  (2)   referring to page 106 of print of B.L.
            The    case of
                            is T  very great puzzled myself about a
  month ago. It not very easy to interpret the formula

  by itself for this case. But                  saw easily enough by
                                                if I

                                                             it
going back to the process which led to the formula

that               gives for = oo simply the diminished velocity
                            T

due to augmented density, as                    the masses of all the

shells were distributed equally through without altering

its rigidity.

            There another interesting case included in the same
                   is
                                            is
work. Let the central nucleus be abolutely fixed the
                                                                    :

velocity of propagation infinitely great for = oo .              T

   Take T infinitely small and you find the wave

*/velocity =       -^, the same as in pure ether. This explains

the exceedingly small refractivities of aluminium and vul
canite found by Rb'ntgen, and of other substances found
by other experimenters for the X-rays. But the explana

xx1v GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1069

tion would be better if they were small negative instead

of small positive, as found (not confidently) by Rontgen.
Stokes and I have had a good deal of correspondence
over all this, and about six weeks ago we both concluded

that in all probability the Rontgen X-rays are of transverse

vibrations of very short period. -- Yours very truly,
                                                                KELVIN.

                                                               April 29, 1896.

    DEAR FITZGERALD --Your letter of the 17th fol

lowed me to London and I have been very busy ever

since or I should have written sooner in reply. I am

sure you will never find comfort in crystallization or

anything analogous to it to explain waves of light in
ether, or in anything else than the fundamental doctrine of

the undulatory theory of light-- true transverse vibrations

of  moving   "  matter subject    to the  law  of inertia.  Hence
my   " must      to which you   object.
    Maxwell's expression, " electric displacement "
                   is
                                            it
                                                                      a
                                                                                  is,

                                                             I
believe, absolutely true so far as indicates true dis

placement of matter, as in the undulatory theory of light,

but my difficulty  in respect to the electric quality

concerned in this displacement.
    Electric force (X, Y, Z) cannot be a mere displace
ment, because mere displacement does not in an elastic
solid or in any conceivable " ether " give rise to energy

equal to R 8?r per unit volume of field.       could not in
    1                                          I
                                                   I
               2/
                                                             a
                          I,
                                                              I
Nov. 846, nor have ever since that time, been able to
regard " displacement " as anything better than
                                                            mere
" mechanical representation of electric force." But

have always from that time till now felt, and now still

feel, that somehow or other we shall find rotation of a

medium to be the reality of magnetic force. We may

ideally make dynamical model with an incompressible
                a

inviscid fluid to represent electricity percolating among

interstices between ether and ponderable matter of a

metallic conductor, and generating heat by the vibrations

in ether which such percolation could not but produce,

provided all the substances concerned are perfectly free

1 070           LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                                       CHAP.

from viscosity. It is not so easy to include in the model

electrostatic force and charged condensers. Thus a dis

placement of electricity relatively to ether, and the strain

produced by the fluid trying to get through from vesicle

to vesicle in the ether, but in an insulator not succeeding,
would be the " electric displacement " and the electrostatic

stress.

    All this is very crude, but perhaps not absolutely

unmanageable for an ideal mechanical model. In trans

verse vibrations of light and magnetism the ether and the

fluid in the vesicles would move together ; and the stress
of the ether dragging molecules denser than itself in

vesicles containing it so as to give it very nearly always
the same motion as its own, would be an extreme case of

electrostatic stress.

But there can be no comfort whatever in any attempt

at a physical theory of electricity and magnetism unless

it provides us with a medium capable of giving the pro

digiously great forces which we have in electromagnetism,

and the smaller, but still very palpable forces of electro

statics, and also at the same time permitting the free

mobility of bodies through        in virtue of which we feel
aI
                II

                                 I
                                          it

                                                   it,

                                                                         I

                                                                                                19
those forces. When wrote to you my letter of April

thought         saw how           was possible to find this last
essential quality in my "ether" of M.P.P. Art. XCIX, but

day later fell back into utter despair, in which still

remain.
     You speak of " vectors and symmetrical equations "

for investigating " the rate at which an alternating
electric current penetrates into a conductor," and " the

equations which lead to an exactly similar propagation

of electric currents into non-conductors." The former

"Symmetrical equations are good in their place, but vector "                                                              useless
I1
  I

              a

                    if
                                                                        it,

                                                                                                                   is
                                                                                                                       a
survival, or offshoot, from quaternions, and has never been of the slightest

use to any creature. Hertz wisely shunted  but unwisely he adopted

temporarily Heaviside's nihilism. He even tended to nihilism in dynamics,
as warned you soon after his death, He would have grown out of all
                he had lived. He certainly was the opposite pole of
this, believe,

nature to nihilist in his experimental work, and in his Doctorate Thesis

on the impact of elastic bodies.

GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1071

are in reality vitally different from the latter ; and
the latter are merely the equations of motion of an

incompressible elastic solid. One of the chief things to

be discontented with is the refractoriness of all attempts to

bring the two classes of action into dynamical relation

with one another, on any hitherto imagined constitution

for ether, electricity, and matter. It is not the equations
I object to. It is the being satisfied with them, and with
the pseudo-symmetry (pseudo, I mean, in respect to the

physical subject) between electrostatics and magnetism.

I also object to the damagingly misleading way in which
the word " flux " is often used, as if it were a physical

reality for electric and magnetic force, instead of merely

an analogue in an utterly different physical subject for

which the same equations apply, see Electrostatics and

Magnetism, §§ 4, 5, and 6 (first published  Feb.   1842).
But enough of this carping about words !            could
                                            If we

but get the slightest inkling of how a fragment of

paper jumps to rubbed sealing-wax, or a fragment of iron

to a lodestone, I could be supremely happy, and would

be temporarily content not to ask more of ether, not

even gravity.

     In your letter of the 1 7th you hit off exactly the right
thing in respect to a sphere or two spheres in incom

pressible jelly. But you omit to remark that the push

along the axis giving a displacement inversely as the

square or some higher power of the distance represents the

alleged infinitely rapid propagation of longitudinal dis
placement. What I have called the distant terms don't
include longitudinal displacement in the axis. Think

first of a rigid globe in an incompressible liquid. Start it

instantaneously in motion in the direction of any diameter.

Every particle of the liquid will take its proper motion

instantaneously. Give now the liquid some rigidity ; the
instantaneous motion all around will be the same as it

was with no rigidity : but a distortional wave motion
propagated at a finite velocity will follow. This is exactly

the state of things represented by Maxwell's equations

and worked out in an example by Hertz.

1072         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                    CHAP.

Thanks for page 45, r* instead of x1. The papyrograph

was sometimes not clear, and my eye imperfect in detect

ing errors in the print.

Your spherule of water moving through ice which melts

in front and freezes behind, is virtually the same in result

as my despised shoemaker's wax. I stuck to my theory

of a turbulent liquid as long as I thought I could get

anything out of and no longer.
I
                                           have ever thought of or
                            it,

                                        I
now abandon everything
written in respect to constitution of ether . . .-- Yours

ever truly.                                KELVIN.

That the veteran of seventy-two should possess

the mobility of thought revealed in these hitherto

unpublished letters, wonderful but                                  not more
                          is

                                                 a:

                                                         it
                                                                is
wonderful than the tenacity with which he held

to that which seemed to him real depositum of

scientific truth. Though he had abandoned the

vortex-atom theory, and was now ready to throw

away all preconceptions as to the constitution of the

ether, he had never lost faith in dynamics or in the

ether itself, or in the possibility of that ultimate

solution which had been before him in 1846.

    Then came his Jubilee.
    Those who have followed the course of his per

sistent endeavours to see below the surface of

matter, as here narrated, will be able to appreciate
the true inwardness of his confession " One word
             I
                               ;
                       I
                                                             is :
                                     I
characterizes the most strenuous of the efforts for the
advancement ofscience that have made perseveringly

during fifty-five years that word failure.

know no more of electric and magnetic force, or of

the relation between ether, electricity, and ponderable

matter than knew and tried to teach to my students

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1073

of natural philosophy fifty years ago in my first

session as  wPraosfe"sstoher."most  strenuous " of his  efforts
    What

for the advancement of science ? Assuredly not

achievement of ocean telegraphy, nor the improve

ment of the compass ; neither the limitation of

geological time, nor the establishment of thermo-

dynamic doctrine. Great and strenuous as were the

efforts which each of these demanded, none of them

can be compared with the fifty-years-long quest for

the theory of matter. And here it is worthy of

remark that the same integrity of judgment, the

same refusal to find intellectual peace at the cost

of intellectual sincerity, which in his earlier life had

restrained him for three years from accepting Joule's
ideas as to the mechanical equivalence of heat and

work, had equally, and for thirty years, restrained

him from finding satisfaction in Maxwell's theory of

light. In the former case his suspense of judgment

had been rewarded by the discovery not only of the

Dissipation of Energy, but of the still more widely

significant doctrine of Available Energy. The

everlasting law of honour by which science was

bound to face fearlessly every problem that can

fairly be presented to bound him too. The great
it
                        it

                                          it,

                                                                                       ?
                                                                                                                                                  ;
dynamical problem of matter was yet unsolved but

was not insoluble, at least not in his regard.

There was not, there could not be, any permanent

satisfaction for his mind while the great quest failed

of its goal. Was the work hard      Then the harder

the more was worth doing. Did the intricacies of

1074 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                                          CHAP.

it cause trouble ? Then let it be remembered that
" tribulation, not undisturbed progress, gives life and
soul, and leads to success, when success can be

reached, in the struggle for natural knowledge."
Not even then, at the age of seventy-two, could Lord
Kelvin rest with the great problem still unsolved.

    Meantime other workers and disciples had

brought new material to bear. Following out the
ideas of Faraday and Maxwell as to electricity itself
having a natural unit, justifying the expression l
" one molecule of electricity," von Helmholtz had,

in his Faraday lecture of 1881, carried the idea a

stage further in emphasizing the signification of the
laws of electrolysis. Following on the investiga
tions of Thomson and Loschmidt as to the size of

atoms, Johnstone Stoney, also in 1881, had estimated
the amount of charge of electricity which is associated

with one atom of hydrogen, or other monad element,

as being about one one - hundred trillionth part

(io"2°) of a coulomb, and to this natural unit of
electricity he, in 1891, gave the name of electron?

21

                     is,

                                                                                                              i.

                                                  J.

                                                                          a
                                                                       J.
which term  however, now generally restricted to

the unit of resinous or negative electricity.
    Refined measurements by Sir Joseph Thomson

and others showed that the kathode streams in

Crookes's tubes were flights of free electrons, dis

embodied from the atoms of matter with which they

are usually associated. Sir Joseph had, in 1881,

investigated the magnetic field due to moving

        Maxwell, Electricity and Magnetism (1873), vol. p. 312.                                                   Thomson
        Lord Kelvin preferred to use the term clcctrion. Sir Joseph
prefers the name corpuscle. Both mean the same thing as electron.

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1075

electric charge, and had remarked that the convec

tion of this field involves an addition to its effective

mass. More important still in the present connec
tion, Sir Joseph Larmor,1 in the years 1893 to 1897,
developed a new dynamical theory of the electric

and luminiferous medium. Adopting the same
general line as Lord Kelvin, he proposed a gyro-

static adynamic ether, which would have a rotational

rigidity, but allow free movement of solid bodies

         as the primordial medium. Then he
through  it,
                    a

                               if

                                               a

                                                                     is
definitely suggested that the atom be regarded as
containing electrons, the phenomenon of magnetism

should be explained, not as rotation of the ether

itself, but as    rotation of the electrons. The

electron itself was regarded as a strain centre

in the homogeneous medium. Radiation                                                                                  due

solely to acceleration or retardation of the electrons,

  point which Heaviside had previously elaborated.a

To this was added the speculation that the mass

of each sub-atom  it           proportional to the number
                     is
of electrons that carries, and that each atom                                                                         is

constituted of an orbital system of electrons (as
imagined by Sir Joseph Thomson), with inter
                               J.

atomic forces that are entirely or mainly electric.

A system of electrons ranged along circle, and
                                             a

moving around     with such speed as to give
                it
                                         aa
steadiness constitutes in fact vortex-ring in the

surrounding ether. Lord Kelvin had never postu

lated the vortex-ring as including an electric charge

   Roy. StK. Proc. liv., Dec.  1893; Phil. Trans. A. 1894,                                                            764; ib.
l

                                             ;
                                                      7,

                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                                  p.
A. 1895, pp. 695-743 ib. A, 1897, pp. 205-309 also his book, Aetlier
and Matter, Cambridge, 1900.

1076  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

 as part of its constitution; but in 1890 he had
 arrived definitely at the view (see p. 1049) that a
 triple alliance with electricity as a constituent member
 was a necessity. Larmor's new theory made the

 ultimate element of matter not a vortex-ring, but
 an electric charge or nucleus of permanent ethereal

strain. A whirling assemblage of such nuclei might

act as a vortex-ring. Here was then a definite idea
of a connection between matter and ether, a founda
tion for a definite and universal theory. It is but fair
to add that a very similar view had been indepen

dently put forward at almost the same time by

Professor H. A. Lorentz of Leyden.
     In the later part of this development we are to

some extent anticipating, for before it was fully
launched Lord Kelvin had himself resumed the

quest. At the British Association Meeting of

1896, at Liverpool, he read a paper on the mole
cular dynamics of hydrogen, oxygen, ozone, and
other gases, and of ice, water, and quartz crystal.
The object of this communication was to find how
much of the known properties of these typical
substances can be explained without making any
further assumptions than the conferring of inertia

on a Boscovich atom.

    In 1897 he made several communications to the
Royal Society of Edinburgh, amongst them one on
some models illustrating the dynamical theory of

hemihedral crystals.

    Again, in 1898, at the British Association Meet
ing at Bristol, he spoke of the dynamical theory

xXIv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1077

of refraction and dispersion ; of continuity in the

undulatory theory between condensational waves,

distortional waves, and electric waves. In 1899 he

rediscussed magnetism and molecular rotation before

the Royal Society of Edinburgh. He showed that

an electrified body is set into rotation by the genera

tion of a magnetic field around it.
    In the year 1900 Lord Kelvin brought before

the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and again at the
Congres de Physique in Paris, a new hypothesis of

a startling kind, in a paper,1 on the Motion Pro

duced in an Infinite Elastic Solid by the Motion

through the Space occupied by it of a Body acting
on it only 2 by Attraction and Repulsion. The very

title contradicts the old scholastic axiom that two

different portions of matter cannot occupy the same
space at the same time. He had been reconsider
ing the old difficulty of the undulatory theory of

light -- the motion of ponderable bodies through

space occupied by an elastic solid, for so he still

regarded the ether. To emphasize the point he
appended this trenchant note :--

    The so-called " electro-magnetic theory of light " does

not cut away this foundation [elastic solid] from the old

undulatory theory of light. It adds to that primary

theory an enormous province of transcendent interest and
importance ; it demands of us not merely an explanation
of all the phenomena of light and radiant heat by trans
verse vibrations of an elastic solid called ether, but
also the inclusion of electric currents, of the permanent

1 Reprinted as Appendix A, p. 468, of the Baltimore Lectures.

    2 And so Father Boscovich,   judged obsolete  in19010884",   and his theory, pro
nounced "infinitely improbable                                  reinstated as guide."
                                "in 1893, was in

1078  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

magnetism of steel and lodestone, of magnetic force, and
of electric force, in a comprehensive ethereal dynamics.

     He conceived the atom as a spherical aggregation
of ether of varying density, of the same average
value as the density of the ether outside, the
internal ether being arranged in concentric shells of
varying density, according to some prescribed law of
force. It would have no resultant attraction on the

ether outside, and could move freely through it at
any speed that was small compared with the velocity

of light. To reconcile the hypothesis with the

experiment in which Michelson and Morley found

the ether in the earth's atmosphere to be at rest
relatively to the earth, he was prepared to accept
the suggestion of FitzGerald and Lorentz that the
motion of ether through matter may slightly alter
its linear dimensions. There was nothing electrical

in this hypothesis.

    The year 1901 brought a marked step forward.
Under the quaint title of " Aepinus Atomized,"
Lord Kelvin sought to reconstruct the old one-
fluid theory of electricity on a new atomic
hypothesis. The doctrine of Aepinus1 was that

positive and negative electrifications consist in
excess above, and deficiency below, a natural
quantum of a fluid called the electric fluid per
meating among the atoms of ordinary matter.
Adopting the modern notion of electrions (see

p. 1074 supra), Lord Kelvin now suggested that

    1 Aepinus, Tentamen Theoria Elcctricitatis et Magnetismi, St. Peters
burg, 1759.

xx.v GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1079

while electrions permeate freely through all space,

whether occupied by ether or occupied also by the

volumes of finite spheres constituting the atoms of

ponderable matter, each electrion in the interior of

an atom of matter experiences electric force towards

the centre of the atom, just as if the atom contained

within      fixed relatively to itself, uniform dis
        it,
                                                                   a
                                                                         it.
tribution of ideal electric matter. The electrions

themselves were to be exceedingly minute atoms of
resinous electricity, while the atom of matter was
vitreously electrified. An atom might require one,

two, or more electrions to neutralize                                         The

mathematical laws of the mutual actions of two such

atomic structures were deduced, and an explanation

found for the attractions and repulsions --the oldest
known electrical property --produced by friction. He

then calculated the conditions of stable equilibrium

for number of possible configurations of electrions
a

          ;

               a
                                       ;
within the atom two, on diameter three, at the
                                          ;         ;

                                                 a      a
                                                                       ;
                                                                                ;

                                                                              a
corners of                              triangle four, at the corners of

square four, at the corners of a tetrahedron six, at
those of an octahedron eight, at those of cube and
                                          ;

so on up to as many as twenty-one electrions. He

found that hypothetical atoms so constituted would

realize Faraday's explanation of the phenomenon

of dielectric polarization. High temperature would

set the electrions into wildly irregular vibrations,

causing some of them to be occasionally shot out

of their atoms, and either falling back or passing

into other atoms, thus explaining the conductivity

of solids such as glass or Nernst filaments, when

io8o  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

heated. Considerations of the pyro-electric pro
perties of crystals concluded the paper.

    The molecular dynamics of crystals was resumed
in 1902 in a further paper1 to the Royal Society of
Edinburgh, with elaborate calculations on Bos-
covichian principles of the stability or otherwise of
networks of homogeneous assemblages of atoms.

    The completion of the Baltimore Lectures was

now taken in hand. Chapter XIX was rewritten,

with a reconciliation between the formulae of Green
and Fresnel on the basis of the new hypothesis of
1900, by which the character of the action of atoms
of matter on ether was reduced to simple attraction
or repulsion ; and these attractions were rendered
effectual by assuming that the ether within the

space occupied by the atom could be condensed or
rarefied by positive or negative pressures due to
repulsion or attraction exerted upon it by the atom

and its neutralizing quantum of electrions. This
assumption of compressibility removed the last
difficulty in reconciling with dynamical theory,
provided one might regard the inertia of crystals

to be no longer isotropic, an idea which he had
formerly rejected as incompatible with the con

servation of energy. Lecture XX as thus rewritten,

dealt with the chirality of quartz and of optically
active liquids, on the new assumption of aeolotropic
inertia. He desired to extend the explanation to
the magneto-optic rotation, but contented himself
by saying : " When we have a true physical theory

        1 Reprinted as Appendix J, p. 662, of the Baltimore Lectures.

xx1v GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1081

of the disturbance produced by a magnet in pure
ether, and in ether in the space occupied by pon
derable matter, fluid or solid, there will probably be
no difficulty in giving as thoroughly satisfactory
explanation of the magneto-optic rotation as we
now have of the chiro-optic." He then returned
to the dynamics of ordinary and anomalous dis
persion, for which in 1884 he had invented his
spring-shell model molecules, to consider what

modification must be made to suit the hypothesis
of the electronic structure of the atom. In the new

theory each electrion or each group of electrions
within the atom could act as a vibrator,1 which in a

source of light takes energy by collision with other
atoms and radiates out the energy in waves in the
ether. He had been looking all along for a system
of vibrators whose motions would explain the
dynamics of spectrum analysis, the absorption of
the dark lines of the spectrum, and the anomalies of
dispersion. He had found them in the electrions.
Assuming the electrion to be massless, or rather as
possessing virtual inertia only on account of the
kinetic energy of its motion through the ether, he
solved the equations of motion and deduced that
the greater the wave-length of the outgoing waves,
the smaller was the proportionate loss of energy per
period. This led finally to a new design of model

1 It is a singular fact that in none of this later work does Lord Kelvin

refer to the effect discovered in 1897 by Zeeman, being conclusive as to the

electrions being the real vibrators, not the atoms themselves or the molecules.

His sole reference to the Zeeman phenomenon is in his 1899 paper on
Magnetism and Molecular Rotation (p. 1077, supra), where he simply accepts

Lorentz's theory.  2K

   VOL. II

1082  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                   CHAP.

molecule. In the old model there was as vibrator a

central free mass connected by springs to a rigid
sheath, the lining of a spherical cavity in ether. In
the new electro-ethereal design, the force of the
springs was replaced by the electric attraction of the

atom on its electrion when the latter was displaced
from its position of equilibrium ; and the electrion

acts directly on the ether in simple proportion to
acceleration of relative motion. He had found,

then, the tertium quid pronounced in 1890 (see
p. 1048) to be wanting. Every one of the formulas
was found to be applicable, " notwithstanding the
vast difference between the artificial and unreal
details of the mechanism thought of and illustrated

by models in 1884, and the probably real details
of ether, electricity, and ponderable matter suggested
in 1900-1903."

    How far, then, had his aspirations been fulfilled ?

Let his own words say, as he wrote them in January
1 904 in the Preface to the Baltimore Lectures.

It is in some measure satisfactory to me, and I hope it

will be satisfactory to all my Baltimore coefficients still

alive in our world of science, when this volume reaches

their hands ; to find in it dynamical explanations of every

one of the difficulties with which we were concerned from

the first to the last of our lectures of 1884. . . .
    It seems to me that the next real advances to be

looked for in the dynamics of ether are :-- An explana
      ;

        a
              it
                                       (i)
                                                      a
                                                         a
tion of its condition in the neighbourhood of               steel

magnet, etc. (ii) An investigation of the mutual force
between two moving electrions, modified from purely

Boscovichian repulsion as  must be by the composi

tion, with that force, of force due to the inertia of the

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1083

ether set in motion by the motion of each of the electrions.

It seems to me that, of these, (ii) may be at present

fairly within our reach ; but that (i) needs a property of
ether not included in the mere elastic-solid-theory worked
out in the present volume. My object in undertaking the
Baltimore Lectures was to find out how much of the

phenomena of light can be explained without going
beyond the elastic -solid -theory. We have now our
answer: everything non-magnetic ; nothing magnetic. The
so-called " electromagnetic theory of light " has not helped
us hitherto : but the grand object is fully before us of

finding a comprehensive dynamics of ether, electricity, and

ponderable matter, which shall include electrostatic force,

magnetostatic force, electromagnetism, electrochemistry,
and the wave theory of light.

    Thus after twenty years the Lectures were
completed.1 With the discovery of radium and the

persistent disintegration of its atoms by the emission

of electrons and of vitreously electrified atoms of

helium (as now known), the old problems had

assumed a new aspect. Lord Kelvin sought to

explain 2 these phenomena also by aid of his electro-

etherial hypothesis.

the  1 "The   thanks of             t"hewisllciesnutriefilcy  world," wrote Larmor, when reviewing
             in Nature,                                       go out to the veteran author, now by a
     volume

happy choice Chancellor of the University which he has so long adorned, for
this splendid gift, which stimulates and educates even where it fails to con

vince, and bears on every page evidence                       of profound                                             antditleusnweaarery:ing"  thought."
                                                              science the
     2 Of these latest contributions to                                                                                                         Plan of  "a
                                                                                                                                                Radium
Combination of Atoms having the Properties of Polonium or
(Phil. Mag. viii. p. 528, Oct. 1904); "Models of Radium Atoms to give
oa"ut tOannay-theaTenmdKipne/e3rta-iRtcuaryeasnd"reSst(paPtehiscitlt.icivaelMlya"Egq.(uNixla.ibtrupiru.em,28I5xo,xf.                                   1904);
                                                                                                                      p. 514, Sept. 22,                Matter

                                                                                                                      Ether  1in90P5o)nd; er"abPlelan    of an
                                                                                                                      Sept.
Atom to be capable of storing an Electrion with enormous Energy for Radio
activity" (Phil. Mag. x. p. 695, Dec. 1905); "The recent Radium Con
troversy" (Nature, Ixxiv. p. 539, Sept. 27, 1906); "An Attempt to
                                    of Radium" (Phil.
Explain  the Radio-activity         of Ether produced                                                                  Mag. xiii. p. 313, March
1907);                                                                                                                by Collisions of Atoms or
         "On the Motions

MSeoplte. cu1le90s7)co;nt"ainOinng     or not containing Electrions" (Phil.                                                  Mag. xiv. p. 317,
                                    the Formation of Concrete Matter from                                                     Atomic Origins"

[posthumously published] (Phil. Mag. xv. p. 397, April 1908).

1084  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                          CHAP.

    To sum up that which Lord Kelvin effected in
this life-long labour were no easy task. To bring

all the properties of matter within the range of

dynamics involves an implication not readily con

ceded. Dynamics is the science of matter and

motion, or rather of matter and energy, since energy,

not motion, is subject to a law of conservation. Is

it then possible to reduce all physical phenomena

within the duality of matter and energy ? Grant

merely the duality, and we may explain not only the

mechanics of moving bodies, but also sound and

heat (except radiation), and, under certain assump

tions, elasticity; but not gravitation, nor light.

Light demands an ether, as well as energy and

matter : it can no-how be explained by postulating

a duality, unless matter itself is expressible in terms

of ether and energy. And to explain electric

phenomena (to say nothing of magnetic) demands
four fundamental entities, electrons (or at least
something called electricity), matter, energy, and
ether. The trend of modern ultra-physics with

respect to the constitution of matter is towards the

following five categories : ( 1 ) the ether, that  ; ; is,  the

plenum filling space (2) the electron, conceived as
      a
                                     ;
a  plexus in the ether, probably of two species (3)

the atom, complex of electrons in the ether (4)

the molecule, a specific group of atoms (or in some

cases one atom) (5) the mass, an assemblage of
      ;

              is
molecules. Energy involved in the construction

of any of these out of any other. Now our

mechanical ideas and language are all derived from

xxiv GREAT COMPREHENSIVE THEORY 1085

 masses and their movement ; and our chemical

 ideas and language mostly from molecules and their
constituent atoms. There arises consequently a
difficulty, inherent in the terms we use, and the
physical implications due to their origin in our
experience, when we try to explain or even to
describe electrons and ether ; for to state the de

scriptions intelligibly we must frame them in terms
of ordinary matter, masses, or molecules. It would

seem logical to restate the more complex in terms
of the more simple, rather than the reverse, were

the simple familiar to us. Lord Kelvin's effort

seems to have been to find a theory to reduce

the necessary concepts to the smallest number --

matter and energy, or, by means of the vortex
theory, to ether and energy. In the end he found
it necessary to bring in electricity as well. But who
shall call this failure ? The late Professor Fitz-
Gerald voiced the verdict of his fellow-workers in

phrases of no uncertain import : --

     Though he himself has described these efforts as
resulting in failure, his contemporaries and disciples see a
succession of brilliant successes, which have not, indeed,
fully conquered the citadel of ignorance against which
they were directed, but have, nevertheless, conquered
many and fair districts, and advanced the armies of know
ledge in their reconnaissance of this citadel to an extent
that was only possible for a great general, an indefatigable
and enthusiastic genius.

               CHAPTER XXV

                             VIEWS AND OPINIONS

FROM many passages in the previous chapters
some insight is afforded into the views and opinions

of Lord Kelvin upon religion, politics, education,
and other questions. It were an unseemly thing,
and altogether beyond the province of the present
work, or the competence of its compiler, to essay to
sit in the seat of judgment. Not in our generation
will it be possible to exercise dispassionate vision
or to disentangle the ultimate from the obvious.
Whenever possible, the attempt has been made to
cite Lord Kelvin's own words. But the presentation
of his character afforded by these scattered utter

ances would be very incomplete were not some

effort made to gather together the stray threads. We
shall not look upon his like again ; and the things
in him which some took for defects must one day
be evaluated afresh in the light of that essential
nobility of character which shines out the brighter,

the closer one comes to his own words and work.

    Though in the matter of religious beliefs Lord
Kelvin never made any parade of his views, he was
a man of earnest convictions, quietly but tenaciously

                                                                  1086

xxv     VIEWS AND OPINIONS                                                  1087

sustained, without bigotry or intolerance. Although
brought up in the Established (Presbyterian)
Church of Scotland by his father, who had himself
at one time studied for the ministry, he conformed
while at Cambridge to the Church of England, and
subscribed the Thirty-nine Articles both on his

entry as an undergraduate and on his admission to

the Fellowship in 1845. It is equally clear that in
1846, on his election to the Glasgow Chair, he
subscribed to the Westminster Confession. Also,

during the lifetime of his first wife, and during his
widowerhood, whenever he was at Largs he attended
there the services of the Free Church, of which his

wife's brother-in-law, the Rev. Charles Watson, was

minister. When in Glasgow he regularly attended
the services (Established, Presbyterian) of the
University Chapel. Later in life he had sittings in
the Scottish Episcopal Church in Glasgow, and also
attended the Episcopal Church at Largs. He was,

in fact, a regular and reverent communicant in the

Church l of England. His brother James, when

quite a young man, had, after great mental struggles,
broken from the old Calvinistic faith, and definitely

became a Unitarian. A letter of Dr. King's, of

date 1850, shows that William reasoned very

     1 Of sacerdotalism and ritualism in all its phases and forms he had an

unconcealed detestation.   He even  thweent"  Ho"nighcheigsh"o"  far as to  write that the only
sense in which he could     regard                               Church
                                                                 -- when    as high, was the
same as that in which game is said to be                                    it is decomposing.
                                                               League, held on July 16, 1902,
    At  a meeting of  the  "LAadlliesw' elPlr-owtiesshtaenrst  of England, and of religion in
Lord    Kelvin said
                      :--

England, must lament that there has been so much of perversion allowed to

pass unchecked within the Church of England, with only too feeble

remonstrance on the part of the Bishops, to whom they had the right to look

for the maintenance of law and order in the Church."

1088 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

strongly with his brother in favour of the evidence
for revelation. Though James remained a staunch,

if not at any time an extreme, adherent of the

Unitarian faith, William never permitted this frank
divergence of beliefs to lessen his affection or his
freedom of intercourse -- and it was an intercourse
of unusual warmth -- with his brother. One who
from his boyhood knew Lord Kelvin well says of
him : " I am quite sure that he was sincerely
religious : I would say he was a sincere Christian
(meaning by Christianity the religion taught by Christ

rather than the religion taught by the churches).
I believe he looked deep into essentials, and that he
regarded differences of sects as mere matters of

form, and looked on the distinctions between

Episcopalians, Presbyterians, Quakers, and Uni
tarians with supreme indifference." To his nephew
and nieces who held Unitarian beliefs he never

expressed any disapproval ; neither did they feel

that there existed any religious barrier between
them and him ; nor did he scruple to suggest that
an unbaptized person of sincere convictions should

take the communion in church.

    In 1895, as President of the Royal Society, it
fell to him, in his annual address, to speak of the
death of Professor Huxley, to whose views he then
referred in the following terms :--

     Even those purely scientific papers contain ample
evidence that Huxley's mind did not rest with the mere
recording of results discovered by observation and experi
ment : in them, and in the nine volumes of collected
essays which he has left us, we find everywhere traces of

xxv  VIEWS AND OPINIONS  1089

acute and profound philosophic thought. When he
introduced the word agnostic to describe his own feeling
with reference to the origin and continuance of life, he
confessed himself to be in the presence of mysteries on
which science had not been strong enough to enlighten

us ; and he chose the word wisely and well. It is a

word which, even though negative in character, may be

helpful to all philosophers and theologians. If religion

means strenuousness in doing right and trying to do
right, who has earned the title of a religious man better
than Huxley ?

     Following the old custom in Glasgow College,

he always, as narrated on p. 444, began his morning
lecture by reciting, with quiet solemnity, the Third
Collect, for Grace, from the close of the Service of
the Church of England at morning prayer. As a

young man he had thought things out in his own

way, and had come to a faith which, not having
been received second-hand, but being of personal
conviction, was never afterwards shaken. His faith

was always of a very simple and child-like nature,

undogmatic, and unblighted by sectarian bitterness.
It pained him to hear crudely atheistic views ex

pressed by young men who had never known the
deeper side of existence.

    Though Lord Kelvin did not like to miss attend
ance at church on Sunday mornings, he was by no

means a rigid Sabbatarian, and had no objection
to lighter occupations, or to occupying himself with
scientific calculations on Sundays. When sailing in

his yacht he liked to put in on Saturday at some

port, that his captain and crew might have Sunday

ashore.

LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

    In 1879 he declined to become a Vice-President
of the Sunday Society, explaining that if its object

had been simply to obtain the opening of museums,

galleries, libraries, and gardens on Sundays, he

would have been happy to join it; and in 1872

he declined the Vice-Presidency of the Sunday

Lecture Society, though he wished well to its
efforts. In 1889 he presided at the annual meet
ing of the Christian Evidence Society ; and from
1903 to his death was President of the Largs and
Fairlie Auxiliary of the National Bible Society of

Scotland.

    In 1888, when staying for a week with his sister
Mrs. King in St. John's Wood, he himself, during
a wet Sunday, suggested a Bible reading, which his
nieces remember well, and of which they made notes
at the time. He thought that in all Bibles the
dates at the tops of the pages should be printed

with a query-mark, except in the cases of ascertained

historical events. The same evening Mrs. King

read from Darwin's works the passage in which he
expresses his disbelief in Divine revelation, and in
any evidence of Design. Sir William pronounced

 such views utterly unscientific, and vehemently
 maintained that our power of discussing and specu

lating about atheism and materialism was enough to
disprove them. Evolution, he declared, would not
in the least degree explain the great mystery of

 Nature and Creation. If all things originated in

 a single germ, then that germ contained in it all
 the marvels of creation -- physical, intellectual, and

xxv  VIEWS AND OPINIONS                   1091

spiritual -- to be afterwards developed.  It was

impossible that atoms of dead matter should come

together so as to make life.

    He was strongly opposed to the " secular solu
tion " of the religious difficulty in primary education.
He was equally strongly opposed to denomina-

tionalism in schools, particularly for Ireland.

    Again and again, in his public career, from his
inaugural lecture of 1846 to the end his life, Lord
Kelvin declared his belief in Creative Power, and in

an overruling Providence. In two points at least

his scientific studies brought him to what he con
sidered a direct demonstration of a definite creation :
namely, the Fourier equations for the flow of heat,
with the mathematical inference, pointed out on
p. 111, that there must have been a beginning ; and

the vortex-atom conception (p. 517), according to

which the permanence of the atom proves that no

known animate or inanimate physical agency could

have originated them. Yet he was never prone to

drag in a teleological view as an excuse for shirking
                                " If," he said in
a deep-reaching investigation.

1871, in discussing the origin of life on the earth,
" a probable solution, consistent with the ordinary

course of nature, can be found, we must not invoke

an abnormal act of Creative Power." With Paley's

Natural Theology he had been familiar from his

youth ; and though he deplored the frivolities of

teleology, he considered as solid and irrefragable the

main argument of " that excellent old book." He

seems in some way to have linked the argument for

1092 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                          CHAP.

creative design with his belief in a comprehensive
theory of ultimate dynamics. This appears in the

closing sentence of his Royal Institution discourse1

of 1860 (see p. 408), where he had been putting the
question whether we are to fall back on facts and

phenomena, and renounce all idea of penetrating

that mystery which hangs round the ultimate nature

of matter. His comment was : " But it does seem

that the marvellous train of discovery, unparalleled in

the history of experimental science, which the last

years of the world have seen to emanate from

experiment within these walls, must lead to a stage
of knowledge in which laws of inorganic nature will

be understood in this sense --that one will be known

as essentially connected with all, and in which unity
of plan, through an inexhaustibly varied execution,
will be recognized as a universally manifested result
of creative wisdom."

The limitation of the above statement to inor

ganic nature is characteristic ; it finds its parallel in

many other instances, as, for example, in the limitation

introduced by him into his statement (p. 282) of the
thermodynamic axiom as to the impossibility of

deriving mechanical energy by means of inanimate

material agency, by cooling a body below the

temperature of its surroundings.  He regarded life,

however certainly its operations were governed by

chemical and dynamical laws, as essentially outside

the range of physics. He utterly repudiated all idea
of the generation of living matter by force or motion

1 free. Roy. Institution, vol. iii. pp. 277-290.

xxv  VIEWS AND OPINIONS  1093

of dead matter alone. " That life proceeds from life,

and from nothing but life," was for him "true
through all space and through all time" (p. 605).
He declared1 that whereas the fortuitous concourse

of atoms was the sole philosophic foundation for the
second law of thermodynamics, the fortuitous con

course of atoms was powerless to account for the
directed operations of living matter. " The influence
of animal or vegetable life on matter is," he declared,
" infinitely beyond the range of any scientific inquiry
hitherto entered on. Its power of directing the
motions of moving particles, in the demonstrated daily
miracle of our human free-will, and in the growth of
generation after generation of plants from a single
seed, are infinitely different from any possible result
of ^he fortuitous concourse of atoms."

     He had, in 1852 (p. 290), denied the probability

 that organized matter, either vegetable or animal,

 could reverse the thermodynamic dissipation of
 energy (a question which Helmholtz left open), and
 held this view unchanged in 1892. And again, in

 1874, he had said: " If the materialistic hypothesis

 of life were true, living creatures could grow back
 wards with conscious knowledge of the future but
 no memory of the past, and would again become
 unborn. But the real phenomena of life infinitely

 transcend human science ; and speculation regarding
 consequences of their ultimate reversal is utterly

unprofitable."

    " The only contribution of dynamics to theoretical

     1 Fortnightly Review, Maich 1892 ; and Popular Lectures, vol. ii. p. 464.

1094  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                     CHAP.

biology is," he declared {Popular Lectures, vol. i.
p. 415), "absolute negation of automatic commence

ment or automatic maintenance."

    But if he held that life was thus a thing apart
from the physical forces which it controlled (and
requiring in itself initially a creative act), his doctrine
had little in common with the old crude vitalism

which postulated a vital force as amongst the natural
forces, so-called, which operate on matter. On the

contrary, he maintained with the utmost strictness

the rigorous insistence on physical forces to produce
physical effects ; and his life-long struggle to reduce

to terms of dynamics the other manifestations of
energy rules out any such confusion. The human
body, as a machine, was subject to the laws of
mechanics ; as a digestive apparatus, to the laws of
chemistry. No supposed vital force could maintain

the animal heat : it was maintained by the con

sumption of food and the processes of respiration
through metabolism. True, the body did not work

as a thermodynamic engine, it more nearly resembled
an electric motor ; but the doctrine of available

energy might be extended hereafter to embrace
the physiological workings of energy. But all this
required only that some vital principle should direct
or organize those transformations of energy which
would otherwise be conducted as a purely inorganic,
that unorganized process no vital principle could
physically supply the energy needed in the process
which merely directed. But the real phenomena
of life were infinitely beyond the range of all sound
      is,
        it

                                                                           ;

xxv        VIEWS AND OPINIONS                                                     1095

speculation in dynamics. So far as physics was

concerned, free-will was a miracle. Emphatically,
Science was not, for him, eine entgotterte Natur.

    In 1897, at the request of Sir George Stokes,
Lord Kelvin gave the Annual Address to the
Victoria Institute, a Society whose object is the
reconciliation of religion and science. The subject
was the Age of the Earth ; the scientific points of
it are noted elsewhere. It ended with the state

ment that mathematics and dynamics fail us when

we are confronted with the problem of the origin of
life on the earth. " We must pause, face to face
with the mystery and miracle of the creation of

living creatures."
    In the autumn of 1903, Sir Edward Fry, staying

at Largs, wrote to a member of his family some
personal impressions of visits to Netherhall, and
he now kindly permits the publication of the follow

ing extracts :--

     As we have seen a good deal of Lord and Lady Kelvin whilst

at Largs, and as Lord Kelvin is a most remarkable man, and as

I know you will like to hear about him, I will put down my

recollections whilst they are fresh in  my mind.                                   place--
     Lord Kelvin's house, Netherhall,
                                         is not             aseavte--ry alanrdge  near him
rather a seaside villa with grounds     than a

lives Dr.  Watson,  the Free  Cfhirustrchwifem--iniasntedr  of Largs, who married
a sister   of Lord  Kelvin's                                these two old people

seem on terms of great intimacy with Lord Kelvin. . . . One after

noon Canon Low came to consult Lord Kelvin as to the vacancy

in the bishopric to which the Largs Episcopalians owe allegiance.

     Lady Kelvin evidently devotes herself to the tender care of

the precious piece of humanity in her keeping, and likes to talk

about him. She showed us one of the series of books in which
Lord Kelvin works. It is a quarto sized note-book which he

always carries with him in a pocket made for the purpose, and in

which he works away at his mathematical investigations when

1096             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                      CHAP.

travelling by railway or at any time--but hardly ever alone, as

conversation does not disturb him. Each entry begins with an

exact date, day and hour, and seemed the most extraordinary

web of mathematical formulae, sometimes preceded by a state
ment of the question to be solved. He is now at work on the

development of a set of lectures given by him ten years ago in

Baltimore when he went to America under urgent pressure, and

Jgave 2 1 lectures, generally of i hours length, in 1 7 days, and got

back in time for his Glasgow course. From that time till a little

while ago he had not found time to develop the lectures he then

delivered ; but when he resigned his professorship Lady Kelvin

says that he felt no lack in his life, but went steadily on with his
work as if no change had occurred.

    She told me that Lord Kelvin had been invited to deliver the

Gifiard lectures, and that he had considered the subject, but felt

that whilst he could have given one lecture on the subject,

he could not undertake to give two courses. He went back
to Paley's Natural Theology, and studied
                                                                 and said that he
                                                                 it,
                                                                       is
                                                                                                         a
could add nothing to what Paley had said, which rather sur

prised me, seeing how little Paley's argument                                  often thought
of nowadays.

     He she told me further, always willing to go anywhere for
is
             is,

             ("

                              is
                                                 a

                                                              a
definite purpose, and has pleasure in scenery, but never really

wishes to be away from home.

     Lord Kelvin much interested in the current questions of the

day, strongly opposed to the behaviour of the motorists, and
inclined to be very angry with Balfour for the transgressions of

his driver He cannot get over it," interjected Lady Kelvin). He
     rather smitten  mwuitthuatlhesuipdpeoartofandvahset lpe, m--pifreeelinkgn,it  together for
all   purposes of                                                a                   think, that

                                                                         I
electrical communication has made this possible which was

impossible before, and much wishing that when we gave autonomy

to Canada and Australasia we had reserved right to free trade

with them. He wanted to know how the Education Act was

working in England.      told him little about our or rather your
                     is                    a
                         a

                          iIs, I

                                        a
experiences (he          very good listener when you tell him what

he likes to hear, which                  think, almost anything). He took me

into his study, where was wonderful model which cannot
                                                                                   I

                                                                                       is
                                                                                                    a
explain, to show the supposed structure of atoms and their
                            small globe. This set him off on
elasticity, and besides  a

denunciation of the great omission in modern education in not

teaching the  use of  the globes, for which                      h"ecosauylds  Huxley     partly
responsible.   " No   plane map," he said                                       give any  one a

notion of the world and with our Empire every English child,"
                      ;

he said, "ought to be shown something of its extent."                                     said
                                                                                   I
                                                                                          I

xxv              VIEWS AND OPINIONS                                                             1097

would stir you up for our Failand school. " Tell her," he said,

that I have a conscientious scruple against paying for education

in geography without the use of the globes, and shall not pay the
proportionate part of the rate."
     Of course he was full of radium ; indeed Dr. Watson said it

was engrossing his thoughts, and was a real worry to him, as it

s"eTemheed    to him to imperil   some of his                 conclusions        "ans o  to matter.
            mystery of radium,"  Lord Kelvin                  said to me,                doubt we

shall solve it one day ; but the freedom of the will, that is a

mystery of another kind." He had two specimens of radium :

one, impure, given him by Mons. Curie in 1900, in a small glass

tube which he carries in his waistcoat pocket ; the other, much

purer, given him by Sir Wm. Crookes, which you observe through

a magnifying glass. We went successively with him into his safe to
                      It is a very dangerous thing, to judge by
see these specimens.

the stories we heard from him of Mons. Curie's fingers, and Dr.

Waller's arm, on which a wound formed from inside outwards, a

month       after the application  of a minute fragment                      of radium.
     He     talked a good deal     about the expression                      " the fortuitous
concourse of atoms," which I thought was to be found in Cicero's
                                                                                 I
De Natura Deorum. He                asked me                   a       question          could  not
                                   was edited                 by       Cicero.
answer-- whether Lucretius

     From fortuitous concourse of atoms he went on to speak of
                                                                                            which I
Itohnelywihnoaldeeqfruaamteelyofgrtahsepeudn. iver"seI,f,"anhedpropounded    a view
matter-- a heap                                               said, " there  were a         mass of

operated on by   of   stones at    rest"  (i.e.               inifherenutndinersitt)o, od"  it  rightly,
                 no   force but    what   was                                                    would

gather together in a system ; and if there were a second mass it

would do the same. If they were identical the two would gather
together, but if they were in any respect unequal the effect of

attraction would result in rotation.                           From     these simple materials
                                                              said, "
the  nwohtooleftesntarmryenutnioivnersite,"mhieghsta,"id,he"  for it   have been evolved. I
do                                                                     sounds atheistic, and I

am a firm believer in design."

    He asked me whether I believed that other worlds than our
own were inhabited. I naturally disclaimed expressing an opinion
to him, and I found that he does not believe any other of the

sun's planets to be inhabitable by life, but thinks there may be

stellar planets in such a condition.

     A course of lectures on "Christian Apologetics"

was given at University College, London, in May

1903, the first of the course being on Present Day

Rationalism, by the Rev. Professor Henslow. A
     VOL. II
                                                                                         2L

io98 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                    CHAP.

vote of thanks was moved by Lord Kelvin in a
short speech which attracted much attention. The
following is The Times report, as corrected by Lord
Kelvin's own hand :--

     Lord Kelvin, in moving a vote of thanks to the lecturer,
said, " I wish to make a personal explanation with

reference to Professor Henslow's mention of ether-

granules. I had recently, at a meeting of the Royal

Society of Edinburgh, occasion to make use of the

expressions ether, atoms, electricity, and had been horri

fied to read in the Press that I had put forward a hypo

thesis of ether-atoms. Ether is absolutely non-atomic ;

it is absolutely structureless and homogeneous. I am

in thorough sympathy with Professor Henslow in the

fundamentals of his lecture. I do not say that, with

regard to the origin of life, science neither affirms nor

denies creative power. Science positively affirms creative

power. Science makes every one feel a miracle in him

self. It is not in dead matter that we live and move and

have our being, but in the creating and directive Power

which science compels us to accept as an article of belief.

We cannot escape from that conclusion when we study the

physics and dynamics of living and dead matter all

around. Modern biologists are coming once more to a

firm acceptance of something beyond mere gravitational,

chemical, and physical forces ; and that unknown thing is

a vital principle. We have an unknown object put before

us in science. In thinking of that object we are all
agnostics. We only know God in His works, but we

are absolutely  forced by science to admit  Paonwderto--bienlievaen
with absolute   confidence in a Directive

influence other than physical, or dynamical, or electrical

forces. Cicero, editor of Lucretius, denied that men and

plants and animals could have come into existence

by a fortuitous concourse of atoms. There is nothing

between absolute scientific belief in Creative Power and

the acceptance of the theory of a fortuitous concourse of

xxv          VIEWS AND OPINIONS                            1099

atoms. Just think of a number of atoms falling together
of their own accord and making a crystal, a sprig of

moss, a microbe, a living animal. I admire throughout

the healthy, breezy atmosphere of free-thought in Pro
fessor Henslow's lecture. Do not be afraid of being free

thinkers. If you think strongly enough you will be forced

by science to the belief in God, which is the foundation
of all Religion. You will find science not antagonistic,

but helpful to Religion.

     On the same day that this appeared Lord

Kelvin sent to The Times the following amend
ing letter :--

                                              15 EATON PLACE, LONDON, S.W.
                                                         May 2 [1903].

    SIR -- In your report of a few words which I said in

proposing a vote of thanks to Professor Henslow for his

ilnectUurneiv"eOrsnityPrCeosellengt eD, aIyfinRdatitohnealfisomllow"inyges:t--erd" aWy aesvethneinrge

anything so absurd as to believe that a number of atoms

by falling together of their own accord could make a
                                                             "
crystal,  a  sprig  of moss,  a microbe, a living  animal       I
                                                           ?

wish to delete " a crystal," though no doubt your report

of what I said is correct. Exceedingly narrow limits of

time prevented me from endeavouring to explain how

different is the structure of a crystal from that of any

portion, large or small, of an animal or plant, or the

cellular formation of which the bodies of animals and
plants are made ; but I desired to point out that, while
" fortuitous concourse of atoms " is not an inappropriate

description of a crystal, it is utterly absurd in respect to

the coming into existence, or the growth, or the continua

tion of the molecular combinations presented in the
bodies of living things. Here scientific thought is com

pelled to accept the idea of Creative Power. Forty

years ago I asked Liebig, walking somewhere in the
country, if he believed that the grass and flowers which

we saw around us grew by mere chemical forces. He

1 100  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                            CHAP.

answered, " NO, no more than I could believe that a book

of botany describing them grew by mere chemical forces."
Every action of human free-will is a miracle to physical

and chemical and mathematical science. --Yours faithfully,

                                                                      KELVIN.

A correspondence followed in the columns of

The Times. Sir William Thiselton-Dyer queried

whether Lord Kelvin was better equipped than any

person of average intelligence for dogmatic utterance

on biological questions, and complained that he

wipes out by a stroke of the pen the whole position

won for us by Darwin. Criticising Liebig's denial

that flowers grew by mere chemical forces, he asked,

" By what force do they grow ? " And mistaking

the new vitalism for the old, he added : " If growth

is to be accounted for by a ' vital principle,' this

must be capable of quantitative measurement like

any other force. If it is physical energy in another
form, Liebig's dictum is futile. If not, organisms

are not subject to the principle of the conservation

of energy." He overlooked the point that in the

exercise of operations under the law of conservation

of energy, the mere directing of a force--which may
vastly affect the result -- involves no necessary ex
penditure of energy. The old vitalism assumed that

there was, and failed to account for  it.           Mr. W. H.

                                                   '
Mallock inquired, " Does the evolution of organic
life -- does nature red in tooth and claw -- suggest
       '

to Lord Kelvin, what failed to suggest to Tenny
          is
              it

                        is
son, that the source of life a Power which not
                                                      is

only creative, but also wise, loving, and just in

xxv       VIEWS AND OPINIONS                       noi

every comprehensible sense?" He further asked,
" But is human free-will a fact? This is the great

question which all the philosophers of the modern

world have debated. The affirmative answer may

be true ; but Lord Kelvin merely assumes that it
         is it
                is

                                                                      I
                                                                                       a : is,
and thus, so far as his recent letter goes, he seeks to

reinforce our confidence in religion, not by meeting

our difficulties, but by ignoring their existence." Sir

John Burdon- Sanderson pointed out how Helm-

holtz had given the death-blow to the old vitalism.

Another correspondent quoted Darwin's own words
"If ever
          found that life can originate on this

world, the vital phenomena will come under some

general law of nature. Whether the existence of

conscious God can be proved from the existence of

the so-called laws of nature (i.e. fixed sequence of

events)   a perplexing question, on which have

often thought, but cannot see my way clearly." Sir

E. Ray Lankester denied the statement that any

modern biologist showed signs of coming to a belief

in the existence of a vital principle. On the other

hand, some of the religious papers criticised Lord

Kelvin's speech adversely, saying that unfortunately

there was a great gulf between Lord Kelvin's

affirmation of belief in creative and directive
is
                                                a
power and the expression of Christian belief that

     found in the propositions of the Apostles' Creed.

     Lord Kelvin returned no rejoinder to his critics

of either school of thought. He was invited by the

editor of the Hibbert Journal to write out his speech
in enlarged form for publication. A like request

1 102  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

for the Nineteenth Century was made by Sir James
Knowles, who wrote :--

    To my thinking there is nothing more important in
these whirling times than an anchorage for faith, such as

common sense and science can approve, and your speech

seems to me to indicate just that sort of anchorage. It

brings back to my mind what Tennyson used so often to
say to me about his personal faith.

    Lord Kelvin consented, and sent to Sir James
Knowles a version embodying the correction of his

letter of May 2.
    Eighteen months later Lord Kelvin returned to

the question in an Address on presenting the prizes

to students in the Medical School of St. George's
Hospital, on October 23, 1904. The main thought

is given in the following extract :--

     Let it not be imagined that any hocus-pocus of electri
city or viscous fluids will make a living cell. Splendid
and interesting work has recently been done in what was
formerly called organic chemistry, a great French chemist
taking the lead. This is not the occasion for a lecture
on the borderland between what is called organic and
what is called inorganic ; but it is interesting to know
that materials belonging to the general class of food
stuffs, such as sugar, and what might also be called a
food-stuff, alcohol, can be made out of the chemical
elements. But let not youthful minds be dazzled by the
imaginings of the daily newspapers, that because Berthelot
and others have thus made food-stuffs they can make
living things, or that there is any prospect of a process
being found in any laboratory for making a living thing,
whether the minutest germ of bacteriology or anything
smaller or greater. There is an absolute distinction
between crystals and cells. Anything that crystallizes
may be made by the chemist Nothing approaching to

xxv          VIEWS AND OPINIONS                                    1103

the cell of a living creature has ever yet been made.

The general result of an enormous amount of exceedingly

intricate and thorough-going investigation by Huxley and

Hooker and others of the present age, and by some of

their predecessors in both the nineteenth and eighteenth

centuries, is that no artificial process whatever can make

living matter out of dead. This is vastly beyond the

subject  of  the chemical   laboratory,  --vabsetylyonbdeyitonind  my own
subject  of  physics or of  electricity                            depth of

scientific significance and in human interest.

     His own suggestion in 1871 of a possible intro
duction of life to this globe by meteoric sources,
was often misunderstood or mis - stated. To a

correspondent who wrote to him on this topic he

replied in 1886 :--

     The " star germ theory " which I put forward as a
possibility does not in the slightest degree involve or
suggest the origination of life without creative power, and
is not in any degree antagonistic to, or out of harmony
with, Christian belief.

    To another correspondent, in March 1887, he
wrote :--

     I think you will find nothing contrary to the Bible in
the suggestion that some of the life at present on the
earth may have come from seeds sown by meteoric stones.
I have never thrown it out as more than a hypothesis
that even so much was the case. But even if some of the
living things on the earth did originate in that way so far
as the earth is concerned, the origin of the species else
where in the universe cannot have come about through
the functions of dead matter ; and to our merely scientific
judgment the origin of life anywhere in the universe seems
absolutely to imply creative power. I believe that the
more thoroughly science is studied the further does it
take us from anything comparable to atheism.

1 104       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                       CHAF.

    Almost at the close of his life the following note
was dictated by Lord Kelvin in reply to a corre

spondent in reference to a statement that "every
body knows Lord Kelvin's theory of life."

    It is not quite true that everybody knows Lord

Kelvin's theory, because certainly Lord Kelvin himself
does not know it. He has put forward various suggestions
at different times towards a Theory of Matter, but has
never settled any in his own mind that could be called a
new theory even of dead matter. The relations of matter
and life are infinitely too complex for the human mind to
understand. Science brings us face to face with creative
power in the beginning of life on this earth and its
continuance.

Lord Kelvin had a whole-hearted detestation of

spiritualism and all that pertains to it ; and would
often go out of his way to denounce " that wretched
superstition." He had seen its disastrous effects on
his partner Varley. In the Address at the Midland

Institute, Birmingham, in 1883 (p. 798), on the

" Six Gateways of Knowledge," he spoke thus :--

     Now  I have hinted at a              possible seventh  sense -- a
magnetic  sense --and though             out of the line I
                                                            propose to

follow, and although time is precious, and does not permit

much of digression, I wish just to remove the idea that I

am in any way suggesting anything towards that wretched

superstition of animal magnetism, and table-turning, and

spiritualism, and mesmerism, and clairvoyance, and spirit-

rapping, of which we have heard so much. There is no

seventh sense of the mystic kind. Clairvoyance, and the

like, are the result of bad observation chiefly ; somewhat

mixed up, however, with the effects of wilful imposture,
acting on an innocent, trusting mind. But if there is not
                               sense, I
a distinct  misangonte. t--ic            say it is  a very great      wonder
that there                     Popular   Lectures,  vol. i. p. 25 8.

xxv  VIEWS AND OPINIONS  1105

     To a correspondent, in March 1891, he wrote :--

    You are perfectly right in your views about spiritualism
and animal magnetism. There is no such thing as animal

magnetism or any other influence, with which a table
may be charged and in virtue of which it can be lifted,

attracted, or repelled, or in any way influenced, without

distinct mechanical action upon it. Faraday made an
experimental examination of table-turning and found that
the observed motions of the table were produced by the

hands of the people touching it The whole subject of

spiritualism and animal magnetism is a tissue of super

stition fostered by imposture.

    Lord Kelvin was very fond of animal pets. His
parrots have several times been mentioned. He
had a horror of unnecessary slaughter of creatures,
particularly of birds. He once seized the arm of a

man who, while on board his yacht, was shooting a

sea-gull, and he protested indignantly against such

wanton cruelty.
    On one occasion, while he was President of the

Edinburgh Royal Society, a paper was read re

counting certain experiments on living animals,

--experiments which seemed to him to exceed any
scientific necessity. The next day there appeared
in the Scotsman the following letter of protest : --

                                                             UNIVERSITY, GLASGOW,
                                                                   March 6, 1877.

    SIR -- In your print of this morning I see a report of

Professor Rutherford's paper on " The Secretion of Bile,"
read at the meeting of the Royal Society yesterday

evening, when, as president, I was in the chair. As
chairman I did not feel that I had the right to express

my opinion that experiments involving such torture to
so large a number of sentient and intelligent animals are

no6                       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN               CHAP.

not justifiable by either the object proposed, or the results

obtained, or obtainable, by such an investigation as that

described by Professor Rutherford. I feel this opinion

very strongly, after many years' serious consideration of

the general question of the advisableness or justifiableness

of experiments involving cruel treatment of the lower

animals. I trust you will kindly give me this opportunity
of expressing
                          as my presence without protest yesterday
                          it,
                                                          approved of the
                                                      II
evening might seem to imply that
experiments which were described. -- am, etc.,

                          WILLIAM THOMSON, LL.D., F.R.S.,

                          Professor of Natural Philosophy

                          in Glasgow University.

    Though on this occasion he took an unusual
course, he admitted that for adequate cause shown,
vivisection was justifiable. His opposition was

limited to such vivisection as was not justified by

the acquisition of new knowledge. To the total

suppression of vivisection he was also opposed, as
the following letter to the Secretary of the Society

for the Protection of Animals shows --
              I

                                    a

                                           I
                                                II :

                                                       II

                                                                                         I
                                                                        March 21, 1885.

    DEAR SIR -- When applied to several years ago to
join in a movement to obtain the absolute prohibition of

vivisection,              refused to do so, and           still feel that

cannot approve of this movement. As see the Society

for the Protection of Animals liable to Vivisection has

become united to the International Association for the

Total Suppression of Vivisection,                feel that  cannot

longer continue to be vice-president, and therefore

prereqsuiedsetnttsh.a--t  you will take  my name off the list of vice-
                          Yours truly,          WILLIAM THOMSON.

    Although nothing was more characteristic of
Lord Kelvin than his intense passion for making

xxv  VIEWS AND OPINIONS  1107

scientific calculations, his incessant and laborious

devotion to the deepest problems of physics did
not prevent him from having other enjoyments and

occupations. If he read little, he appreciated what

he read. He was fond of sea-stories and of novels
bearing on sea-faring life. To the sea, and all that

pertains to seamanship, he was devoted, as we have

seen ; and sailing was his truest recreation. He
was fond of sunshine. He hated to have the blinds
in a room lowered, even partially, and from a boy had
the habit of pulling them up to let in more sunlight.

     Himself childless, he was fond of little children.
He liked to take them on his knee and show them

his repeater watch ; and it was delightful to see
him chatting with some small boy or little babbling
maid, asking questions of them, and drawing out
their childish answers.

    When he became famous, as the world reckons
fame, he had no desire to be lionized by society or

courted by wealthy parvenus. If any of these self-

seeking persons forced themselves on his company
he was never discourteous, but shrunk into a seem

ing shyness. Exacting as he was in all pertaining
to his work, and more exacting on himself and his
own assistants than on any one else, he was essen
tially of a considerate and gentle turn of mind
towards others.

    Once the late Astronomer Royal had written
an adverse criticism of one of his scientific works,
in which his assistant was Ewing (afterwards
Professor at Cambridge, now Director of Naval

no8  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                    CHAP.

Education), at that time a youth of twenty-one.

The Astronomer Royal's condemnation rested upon

a misapprehension, and Ewing, eager to correct
     is
                                                  is

                                                                           in it,
wrote to his chief asking leave to publish a reply.
" By all means answer," telegraphed Lord Kelvin,
" but don't hit too hard.
as old as you. "           Remember he  four times

    Lord Kelvin's aversion from controversy

matters of scientific import has been several times

shown (see pp. 291, 383, 449). His rebuke to Edison
in 1878 for accusing certain English electricians
of piracy and bad faith in the invention of the
microphone, well known. He exerted himself on

more than one occasion to avert public controversy

as to priority in scientific discovery, but was most

punctilious in acknowledging the priority of others

wherever his own investigations came into question.

Nothing could exceed the quiet courtesy and kindli

ness with which he treated younger men who

brought to him the results of their own efforts
                           : J.
scientific research. His consideration
                                             in
                                                                         in
                                        little things

is  illustrated by the following personal narrative

communicated by Professor    D. Cormack, now of
University College, London --

      In 1884 the University of Heidelberg, at its tercenten
ary celebrations, desiring to confer an honorary degree upon

Sir William Thomson, and finding that the only one at

their disposal which he did not already possess was that

of Doctor of Medicine, accordingly presented him with

that diploma. On the very day on which  it  arrived his

kindly eye noticed the indisposition of his lecture -room

assistant, and thereupon he wrote out his first prescription

xxv     VIEWS AND OPINIONS    1109

in proper language and form.  \Nature was the remedy
and a week the dose.

     From the possession of this diploma arose an

amusing scene in 1893, when Lord Kelvin was

giving evidence in the law courts in the notorious

"electric belt" case. The learned counsel (now
Lord Chief Justice of England) who was to cross-
question him, opened fire by remarking that he

presumed his Lordship's numerous qualifications did
not include any medical ones. " I am M.D. of the

University of Heidelberg," replied Lord Kelvin

quietly ; while a ripple of laughter went round the

Court.

     Once when a wild tale appeared in a Dundee

paper about Lord Kelvin swearing at a student

who had thrown a missile at his head, Professor

Ewing wrote an indignant contradiction, and sent

him a copy of his letter.     Lord Kelvin in thanking
him, said :--

     The passage [in the newspaper] to which you particu
larly refer excited some surprise here, as there is not the
slightest foundation for it. No pellet of paper ever struck
my head in the Class Room during the 42 sessions I
have been Professor. I never in all my life used the
expression " By God," nor, I need scarcely say, the word

"crucify," in such an application.

     Lord Kelvin enjoyed a joke, and had a peculiar

I i io  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                CHAP.

humour of his own, often of a somewhat pedagogic

flavour it must be confessed. Presiding in 1893 at
the dinner to the physiologist Virchow, he announced

at the close :--

     Gentlemen, the reduction  of   cellular tissue    to     free
chemical molecules you may     now                   in    other
words, you may now smoke.            commence --

     At the dinner of the Royal Literary Fund in the

 same year, in proposing the toast of the United
 Services, coupled with the health of Admiral

 Colomb, he said :--

      Admiral Colomb has done duty all over what the
 mathematicians would call the " great equipotential," or
 in plain language the ingens aequor.

     With his intimate scientific friends there was
an inexhaustible play of quiet fun underlying his
severest studies. The pleasantries of his corre
spondence with Tait are but a faint reflexion of the
incessant chaff and humour with which their inter
course was enlivened. In the Memoirs of Sir
George Stokes, vol. i. p. 36, we read :--

     Lord Kelvin's visits were occasions of enjoyment to
him, and great were the discussions between them, which
anything served to begin ; for instance, the eggs were
always boiled in an egg-boiler on the table, and Lord
Kelvin would wish to boil them by mathematical rule and
economy of fuel, with preliminary measurement by the
millimetre scale, and so on.

    The love of music was a ruling passion with
Lord Kelvin all his life, and, at seasons when
sailing was impracticable, music formed almost his

xxv     VIEWS AND OPINIONS              mi

sole source of recreation. We have seen the part

he took in the founding of the Cambridge University
Musical Society. For his comrades Blow, Pollock,
and Dykes he retained a life-long regard. When,
in r897, the life of Dykes was published, he wrote

to Dykes's sister, Mrs. Cheape :--

    The book you kindly sent me came one morning

fifteen days ago, when I was just setting out for London.
I was only then able to turn over two or three pages of

it and see some interesting remembrances of my old

friend John Dykes, and of our happy Cambridge musical

times.  I only returned home last night, and, after

getting through my day's work, have been spending the

evening in reading as much as I could of The Life and
Letters of Dr. Dykes, with very great interest. I have

delayed too long writing to thank you for the book, but

I wished first to have at least made a beginning of read
ing it. It has been a great pleasure to me to read of

your father and mother, and of your home in Wakefield,

where I spent a week so happily 54 years ago. I shall
always value the book also as a most interesting record

of the life devoted to duty, which followed the bright

cheerful days of your brother's youth.

    In his last years he still loved, when in London,
to go to the Opera, particularly if one of his old
favourite masterpieces was to be performed. For

the modern developments of music, particularly of
German music, he had little liking. The Rev.
H. F. Stewart, of St. John's College, has recorded
in the Cambridge Review the following dia
logue :--

   A pianist, whom we will call X, has just played " the

beautiful little Traumerei Op. 9 of Richard Strauss."
    Lord Kelvin (approaching the piano, loquitur). The

1 1 12        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                   CHAP.

piece is by Richard Strauss, a contemporary German

composer ?

    X. Yes.
    Lord Kelvin. Any friend of the Strauss family who

wrote such excellent dance music ?                  Has

    X. None whatever.
    Lord Kelvin. No, I should not have thought so.

he written much ?

    X. Yes, quite a lot ; but his early work has an

entirely different character and style from his later com

positions.

    Lord Kelvin. Indeed ! Do you know if there was any
cause to account for this ? We always look for cause

with effect.
Thereupon X gives a short account of Strauss's

abandonment of classical models and his development

along the line of the symphonic poem created by Liszt.

Lord Kelvin. Very interesting.     [Exeunt.]

    Chatting in Lady Kelvin's drawing-room, in the
spring of 1907, he asked me, on some chance turn

in the conversation, if I was devoted to Wagner, and,

without waiting for any reply, said that he preferred
Weber. Did I know Weber's operas ? Or the
music of Euryanthe, Oberon, and Freischiitz ? I

replied that the music was delightful, but that I
thought the libretto of Freischiitz extremely silly.

" Not so silly as Wagner's operas," said Lord

Kelvin. I protested that Wagner's operas -- at

least Lohengrin, Parsifal, and The Ring -- were
avowedly mythological and mystical. " What more
mystical than the casting of the seventh bullet in
Freischiitz ? " urged Lord Kelvin. I protested that
I preferred the forging of the sword in Siegfried;
at least it was not silly. He said he was going with

xxv                VIEWS AND OPINIONS                                                         1113

Lady Kelvin that night to see The Gondoliers, and

hoped they would not have it under Wagnerian
conditions with lowered lights. " I don't like," he
said, " to look at the stage as from a prison or a

dark cell. I like to be able to read my programme."
Doubtless, Lord Kelvin would have joined in the

views of the famous protest of Brahms and Joachim
against the tendencies of modern music.

    The French horn which he played at Cambridge

used to be taken out once a year at Glasgow to

illustrate his lectures in Acoustics ; when, to the
supreme joy of his students, he would attempt to

draw out a few notes from
                           It                 playing as he used

                                        it,
                                                        a it

                                                                   a
to do with his hand inserted into the bell.

    Lord Kelvin's lecture at Birmingham on the " Six

Gateways of Knowledge"                  (1883) contains                                 reference
to " the greatest master               of sound, in the                               poetic and

artistic sense of the word at all events, that ever

lived -- Beethoven."                   also contains                                  wonderful

account of the scientific implications of orchestral

music.

     . . But now for what really to me seems marvel of
.                        a
            :  think what     a                             -- anthde                 result of an
marvels                                                                               two hundred
orchestra      playing --                           it
                                                         is

                                                                by
                                                                        is
                                                                                     a
                               complicated thing
                           hundred instruments

voices singing in chorus accompanied                        the orchestra. Think

of the condition of the air, how              lacerated sometimes in                              is a

complicated effect Think of the smooth gradual increase and
                           --insmoosethcoanndd--gwrahdeunal
diminution of pressure                        it             though                   taking place
several hundred times                                a          piece                 of beautiful
                   !
                                                            be the single note of
                                   aa
harmony heard              Whether, however,
               is

the most delicate sound of flute, or the purest piece of harmony

of two voices singing perfectly in tune or whether be the
                                              ;                                         it

crash of an orchestra, and the high notes, sometimes even

screechings and tearings   of the      --airt, hiwnhkicohf  you may     hear fluttering
above the sound of the     chorus                           all that,  and yet that

     VOL. II                                                                            2  M

1 1 14              LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                          CHAP.

not too complicated to be represented by Professor Cayley, with a

piece of chalk in his hand, drawing on the blackboard a single
line. A single curve, drawn in the manner of the curve of prices

of cotton, describes all that the ear can possibly hear, as the
result of the most complicated musical performance. How is
one sound more complicated than another ? It is simply that in

the complicated sound the variations of our one independent

variable, pressure of air, are more abrupt, more sudden, less

smooth, and less distinctly periodic, than they are in the softer,

and purer, and simpler sound. But the superposition of the

different effects is really a marvel of marvels ; and to think that

all the different effects of all the different instruments can be so
                                                           I
represented !       Think of it in this       wisa--y.        suppose everybody
present knows       what a musical score                you   know, at all events,

what the notes of a hymn tune look like, and can understand the
                                              accompanying orchestra ; -- a
like for  "  a      chorus of    voices, and
" score      of      a whole    page, with a  line for each instrument, and

with perhaps four different lines for four-voice parts. Think of

how much you have to put down on a page of manuscript or

print, to show what the different performers are to do. Think,

too, how much more there is to be done, than anything the
composer can put on the page. Think of the expression which
each player is able to give, and of the difference between a great

player on the violin, and a person who simply grinds successfully

through his part ; think, too, of the difference in singing, and of

all the expression put into a note or a sequence of notes in

singing, that cannot be written down. There
                                              a
                                                      a
                                                               is,

                                                                                  is
                                                              on the written

or' printed page,               little wedge showing diminuendo, and a
                    a
wedge turned the other way showing crescendo, and that allis a

that the musician can put on paper to mark the difference of

expression which                to be given. Well now, all that can be

represented by whole page or two pages of orchestral score, as

the specification of the sound to be produced in, say, ten seconds

of time,is          shown to the eye with perfect clearness by single
curve on    a a is                                            a

mind                riband of paper    a  hundred inches      long. That to    m--y
                     wonderful proof      of the potency      of mathematics.

Popular Lectures, vol. pp. 274-277.
                                is i.
    In lighter vein the following letter to his niece,
Miss May Crum, then in Berlin, studying undera
Joachim, himself personal friend of Lord Kelvin,
a
and frequent visitor both at Netherhall and at

Eaton Place --
                    :

xxv             VIEWS AND OPINIONS                                                1115

     DEAR MAY --Your   father                           GLASGOW UNIVERSITY,
                                                              Jan, 18, '91.

                                                  is with us for three days,

and we are greatly delighted to have him.

     I have just been telling him a little numerical

experience, and he thinks you would like to hear as
                                                                                  it,
                                                                                         it

may help,       only by an illustration, in some of your
I
            if
critical and scientific considerations.

     find that in Wagner's system (as in the Trilogy

for instance) there    something perfectly natural in his
                       is
                              a
invention of associating certain sequence of notes with

each chief character.

          has indeed been quite independently invented byIt
one of the most natural, and at the same time most

scientific of musicians. My brother-in-law, Raleigh

Blandy, eleven years ago was well known to Dr. Redtail,1

and used to highly appreciate his musical performances.
One particular very definite sequence of notes somehow

became associated with him in the composer's mind.

Then he went away to Madeira, and only returned after
nine years. The moment he came into the hall, before

Dr. R. had even seen him, the latter sounded exactly the

same cadence          am not sure this describes correctly,
                I (I                              if

                                                                           \

                                                                              it
perhaps should simply say sequence)               This does prove
if I
an admirable naturalness in that musical idea or principle
    is a
which Wagner has so splendidly developed.
        Ihave been teaching Dr. Redtail the Pastoral

Symphony, but must confess does get mixed up some

what with the Raleigh Blandy strain. It looks, however,
                       it
                                   it

                                                                       ;

                                                       I
as wholly new idea may be evolved as the result.

    It very cold here just now, freezing but not nearly

so cold as London and the south of England, and am

afraid you are having                             colder than anywhere on this

island, but hope you are all enjoying yourselves not
           I

withstanding.

     We are to have the violinist Ysaye on Tuesday night
here. We are hoping Walter will come up to come with

           See p. 630 for notice of this famous parrot.
           1
                                               a

ni6 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN CHAP.

us. Will you not take a place in Prof, von Helmholtz's

new electric balloon and come with us also ?

Aunt Fanny sends her love, and I am, yours very

affecy-,                WILLIAM THOMSON.

P.S. --You might come to us on the igth of March

for Joachim's concert.

Lord Kelvin often lamented that in the pressure

of modern university and college education, and the

too early specialization which is in fashion, students

of science do not now receive training of the same

breadth as used to be the case under the older

curricula. Logic he held to be a study of almost

vital importance to the scientific man ; zuerst

Collegium logicum, he would quote from Faust, not

in jest but in earnest, recalling the logic lectures he

had heard in his teens at Glasgow under Professor

Buchanan. And though he could laugh at the

mediaeval jargon of barbara celarent and the rest of

the doggerel hexameters which furnished mnemonics

for the various orders of syllogism, he valued highly

the aid which the study of logic gives to clear
thinking. " More ships," he said, " have been lost

by bad logic than by bad seamanship."

Greek, too, he put amongst the subjects in which

the student should have some training, and advocated

its retention in the universities. When Sir Richard

Jebb asked him if  his opinion in   this matter might
                   replied,1 " Yes  ; I think, for the
be published, he

sake of mathematicians and science students,

Cambridge and Oxford should keep Greek, of

          1 See Jebb in the Cambridge Chronicle, October 27, 1891.

xxv  VIEWS AND OPINIONS  1117

which even a very moderate extent is of great

value."

     He had an instinctive distrust for the fallacies

that arise from the loose usage of terms in different
senses that are analogical only. He was emphatic
(Popular Lectures, vol. i. p. 289) that " no relation
exists between harmony of sound and harmony of
colour." The fallacy lies, of course, in the use of
the word harmony.

    In his use of language he was precise --almost

pedantically so at times ; and when in his effort to
make clear, in some lecture or communication to a

learned society, the exact meaning of his expressions,
he would half close his eyes and raise his chin,
rapping out the words in a sort of staccato utterance
that gave the impression of an exceedingly minute

precision of definition. To some, however, the

precision so imported savoured of Scottish caution.
He hated ambiguities of language, and statements
which mislead by looseness of phrasing. With
painful effort he strove for clarity of expression,

elaborating his phrases in a way that threatened at
times to defeat the end intended. In " that hazy
medium of words wherein we all drowse," he at

least would attempt to observe the proprieties of

language. As an example take this :-- " Externally

the sense of touch, other than heat, is the same in

all cases -- it is a sense of forces, and of places of
application of forces, and of directions offorees." The

sense of temperature he insisted on distinguishing
from the sense of touch with which it is often confused.

ni8 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                                                     CHAP.

    Certain terms in current use he expressly avoided.
The term induction, which Faraday had employed

to denote the operation of inducing, he would never
employ in the sense in which, unfortunately, Maxwell

used in his Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism,
a
     it,

                     *

                                      it
                                                                                                  2

                                                              is
                                                                                                    a
as synonym for the density of the magnetic flux.

Induction was the operation of inductive reception,

not the quantity that resulted thereby.

    He objected greatly to any physical phenomenon
being described as mysterious. " When you call

thing mysterious, all that means                        that you don't

understand it."

Of the petty pedantries of text-book science he

was scornful. Lecturing on the moments of forces

and their equilibrium, as exemplified in the lever, he

would refer to the empirical classification of levers
in the text-books, and say " There are said to be
                  ;
                                  :
three kinds of levers there are levers of the first

order, and levers of the second order, and levers of

the third order.  don't remember which                                                                                      first,
                  I                                     ;
                        it
                                                                   is
                                          a                                 is
second, or third, and doesn't matter in all three

kinds the lever turns about fulcrum, and that

enough "--and then he proceeded to expound the

theory of couples which supersedes the antiquated

treatment of the subject.

Although daring   speculation as to the causes
21 1
        ;

                         i.

                                    in

                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                         ;
of physical phenomena, he was ever keen to
subject any and every hypothesis to the test of

" Induction or Electromotive Force," Math, and Pkys. Paper:, vol. ii.

p. 33 see also Electrostatics and Magnetism, p. 494.    848                                                                 see Math, and
         An example occurs in what he said of joule in

Phys. Papers, vol. p. 103, footnote.

XXT      VIEWS AND OPINIONS      1119

numerical calculation. All hypotheses might be

good, as guesses ; but guesses they must remain until

by finding appropriate mathematical forms for them

they could be verified by actual computation, and be

received as definite theories. He did not admit

that the term theory could be validly applied to any
unverified hypothesis. " Every theory," he wrote,
in the Athenceum of October 4, 1856, " is merely a

combination of established truths." Like Faraday,

he hated uncertain knowledge and those half-truths

which are often more misleading than downright

errors.

    He was particular as to the forms of certain
words, using for instance the plurals " vacuums,"
" moduluses," " formulas," etc., spelling with letter

k the words "disk" and "skulling," and insisting

that the common noun " ampere " should have no

accent. He would never sanction the vulgarism of
" ammeter " for " amperemeter."
                                 He often used

the word aphasia in an extended sense to denote

the difficulty which the limitations of language

present to the ready expression of scientific con

cepts : he also used the same word jocularly to

describe the difficulty of a nervous student in

answering a question in the class-room.

    The words " physicist " and " scientist " he
disliked, particularly the latter. Yet he used
" physicist " once, when presenting Stokes with the
Copley medal ; and " scientists " occurs once l in his

    J At the Royal Society Banquet of 1894, when the word scientists was
again used by Lord Kelvin, a protest was raised against this interloper of
doubtful etymology, and a newspaper correspondence arose. Huxley considered

1 1 20          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                   CHAP.

Popular Lectures, vol. i. p. 405, where he refers

with a touch of sarcasm to "scientists speaking,
                                                             "
as  now,  each  his                         own  vernacular      !

    As in all progressive researches, so in his own,

he found new language necessary for the denotation
of new ideas ; and though in this respect he was

surpassed by his brother James, he enriched the

scientific vocabulary with many terms of his own
coinage. To him we owe the term " kinetic "
                                                           Rankine's " potential "
energy (the counterpart of                                  " permeability " and
energy), the expressions
" susceptibility " in the magnetization of iron, the
adjectives " aeolotropic," " circuital," and "positional"

(" a single adjective is used to avoid a sea of troubles
here," Thomson and Tail, vol. i. p. 370), and the
phrase " ohmic resistance " for one of the factors of

energy -waste in a circuit traversed by an electric
current. Old students of his class will recall how

they listened year after year for the staccato enuncia

tion of his definition 1 of the ideal magnet -- "an

infinitely long, infinitely thin, uniform and uniformly

and longitudinally magnetized rod of steel." At

an earlier time he had contented himself with a

"scientist" as degraded a word as "electrocution," and it was condemned
by the Duke of Argyll, Lord Rayleigh, and Sir John Lubbock. A word
seems needed, which is scarcely supplied by "philosopher," "naturalist,"
or "scavant." A well-known Cambridge Professor
                                                                               was showing        "a   distin
guished foreigner around the place,              when the    fo"reiOgnhe, r      remarked :           You do
not appear to have any vat ve call               savans,"
                                                 p-p-p-prigs. "                yes," replied      the Pro
fessor, "we have ; but we call them
    1 There is a story told how his students looked forward to the coming of

this definition, and punctuated                  it when   eintdcatmo ecryby"  tapping  on the floor with
their feet, causing the Professor                  at the                      Silence    "
                                                                                        !;   and  how,  on

one occasion, when by previous agreement they refrained from the usual

r"unSinleinncge a!c"coamt ptahneimeenndt !  of stamping, he still, by          force    of   habit,   cried
                                            It is at least ben trmato.

xxv             VIEWS AND OPINIONS                 II2I

simpler definition.            " A magnet is a substance

which intrinsically possesses magnetic properties," a

phrase irresistibly recalling Sydney Smith's famous

definition of an archdeacon.

     In an article in the Glasgow Herald, on the

occasion of Lord Kelvin's elevation to the peerage,

Dr. Hutchison, Headmaster of the Glasgow High

School, a student of the university in the 'sixties,

gave a number of lively reminiscences, including a

graphic account of the great snow riot of 1864, when

the Professor, as he then was, gave evidence in the

police court in favour of certain students accused of

assaulting the police in a great snowballing at the

portals of the old college.    In these reminiscences

Dr. Hutchison says :--

     Sir William in my time had three favourite subjects,
on each of which he was sure to go off at a tangent
whenever the smallest opening was presented. One of
these was the Cambridge system of examinations, on the
miserable nature of which Sir William with great warmth

expatiated, and frequently instructed us, and in fact left us

with very cheerful impressions of the value of our Scotch
degrees. Equally severe he was on our " insular and
barbarous " system of weights and measures,1 which one

1 For examples of his onslaughts, see pages 436, 794, 808, and 866. He
                               BFeilbl rufoarrym7a,ki1n8g95th, etomHeterircbesrytstSepmencceormp:u--lsory.
was a keen supporter of the
On this question he wrote, on
" DEAR MR. SPENCER -- It is the uniform simplicity of the French

metric system which gives it its great advantage.  This advantage it
would still have even if the Arabs had counted by aid of their ten r1ngers

and thumbs and two ideal digits, and had given us a duodecimal system
                I quite agree with you as to the convenience of halves
of arithmetic.
and quarters in coinage and in weights and measures. It is universally

found convenient to take halves and quarters of the smallest unit

in any particular measurement in practical use. Lengths on a road
\ fbeing measured in kilometres, all people would frequently use
\ \kilometres for convenience : never              and

                               or -fa. The         and ^ and -ff are so

1 1 22         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                          CHAP.

may be surprised to find surviving the vigour of his

attacks.
     But Sir William's anger on these two subjects l was as

wnoatsh--ing   compared         with     what it was on the third. This
                                you      wanted to see an illustration of
              Hegel. If

pure white heat you should have seen Sir William

castigating Hegel for the audacity of his assaults on the
Newtonian philosophy. I remember on one occasion he

sent over to the library for the learned volume containing

Hegel's criticism of Newton, in order that we might hear
the ipsissima verba, the downright nonsense, of this

" arrant impostor." I remember the expression perfectly,

both from its native force and the vehemence with which

it was uttered. Had Home Rule been in the air one

would have thought that Sir William was denouncing

some prominent Gladstonian. Some, too, may remember

the energy with which he assailed the professors of cheap

materialism.

    In my time nothing was more characteristic of Sir

William than the thoroughness with which he thrashed

out every subject that he took up. His students were

many curses to British mechanics, disabling them in comparison with

mechanics of all other countries except England and America. Mechanics

\of other countries use and ; centimetres when they find it convenient to

do so. Miles, furlongs, perches, roods, yards, feet, inches, acres, square

yards, square feet, square inches, cubic yards, cubic feet, cubic inches, cause

enormous loss of efficiency to English engineers, and really involve a great

national loss in useless labour, month after month, and year after year. We

may extend the anathema to cwts., Ibs. (avoirdupois), Ibs. (troy), ounce
(troy), dwt., scruples, grains, gunmakers' drams, apothecaries' drams, gallons,

'Ipints, quarts, gills.                                           urging,' --I have
     "You say          see  you  have    been  tacitly                               never  tacitly
"when I have had an opportunity of speaking out.
      I wish you could be convinced, and give your powerful influence to a

reform which is much needed,             alinvdes.fr--omYouthres  want  of which  we in England,
                                                                  very  truly,         KELVIN.
all  of us,   suffer every day   of our
                                                                                   my laboratory
     " P.S.   -- Excuse haste,    as I   am writing, walking about in

among sufferers from our mischievous British system, or rather want of

system, in weights and measures."

     1 Another topic of his diatribes was the incompetence of architects, and

"their ignorance of engineering principles

aerostation. He wrote in 1896 to Col.
                                               ; another was            :--flyingI-mhaacvheinensot  and
                                               Baden-Powell                                         the
smallest molecule of faith in aerial navigation other than ballooning, or of
Iexpectation of good results from any of the trials we hear of. So you will

understand that would not care to be a member of the aeronautical society."

xxv          VIEWS AND OPINIONS                                                1123

quite persuaded that he knew everything about a subject

that could be known, and they felt that he was perfectly

justified in his sometimes rather unsparing language about
charlatans, " showmen," mere brilliant experimenters who
wished to pose as philosophers. In fact, our faith in

him went so far that I have heard some of the best

students say that they were hardly satisfied with any
philosophical theory till it had Sir William's imprimatur,

and were almost content to accept it as all right if it got

that.

    The particular passage in Hegel which aroused
Sir William to scorn was the attack * on Newton's
theory of planetary motion around the sun :--

     The motion of the heavenly bodies is not a being pulled

this way, or that (such as imagined by the Newtonians'),

but is free motion · they go along as the ancients said, as
blessed gods. The celestial corporeity is not such a one as

has the principle of rest or motion external to itself. Because
stone is inert, and all the earth consists of stones, and the
other heavenly bodies are of the same nature, is a conclusion
which (wrongly) makes the properties of the whole the same
as those of the part. Impulse, Pressure, Resistance, Friction,
Attraction, and the like, are valid only for an existence of

matter other than celestial.

     " Hear  his words             "  Sir  William  would            say.      " If,

                                  !

      1 The passage is to be found in Hegel's Encyklopadie (second edition,
1827), part xi. p. 250, in § 269 in the section on Absolute Mechanics, of the
part called Naturphilosophie. Its illogical silliness is best seen in the original

Germ"anD.ie Bewegung der Himmelskorper ist nicht ein solches Hin- und

Hergezogen seyn, sondern die freie Bewegung ; sie gehen, wie die Alien

scgten, als selige Go1ter einher. Die himmlische Korperlichkeit ist nicht
eine solche, welche das Princip der Ruhe oder Bewegung ausser ihr hatte.

Weil der Stein trage    ist, die   ganze Erde aber    aus Steinen    besteht,  und  die
andern himmlischen    Kdrper      eben dergleichen                   Schluss,  der  die
                                                    sind -- ist ein

Eigenschaften des Ganzes denen des Theils gleichsetzt. Stoss, Druck,

Widerstand, Keibung, Ziehen und dergleichen gelten nur von einer andern
Existenz der Materie, als die himmlische Korperlichkeit. Das Gemein-

schaftliche beider ist freilich die Materie, so wie ein guter Gedanke und ein

schlechter beide Gedanken sind : aber der schlechte nicht darum gut, weil

der gute eine Gedanke ist."

1 1 24                LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                              CHAP.

gentlemen, these be his physics, think what his meta

physics       must    be   "

                          !

       It was perhaps this hatred of the school of

thought which exalts wordy description above rigid

demonstration, that gave Lord Kelvin more or less

of a bias against all metaphysics, and to some extent

against all non-symbolic philosophy. Herein he

differed greatly from Helmholtz, whose habitual

philosophical thought was of far wider sweep. He

did not even appreciate the achievements of the

greatest of contemporary English leaders in philo

sophy ; for he wrote : l--

    I have never been of opinion that the philosophical
writings of the late Mr. Herbert Spencer had the value or

importance which has been attributed to them by many
readers of high distinction. In my opinion a national

memorial would be unsuitable.

    Lord Kelvin's contempt for metaphysics2 was
often expressed in the interjected obiter dicta of his
class-room. " Mathematics is the only true meta
physics " was another saying. He liked clear-cut

1 Nature, vol. Ixx. p. 521, Sept. 20, 1906.
     2 The following story (here         a little softened from the
narrated by Lord Kelvin himself         when dining at Trinity Hall                    :--vernacular)  was

A certain rough Highland lad at the university had done exceedingly
well, and at the close of the session gained prizes both in mathematics and in
                      His old father came up from the farm to see his son receive
metaphysics.

               and    visi"tedWetehle,            Thomson was             deputed to   "?sa"hnodw       him
              place.                                                      old man,                     what
Ihis prizes,                            College.                                                        told

round the
may these
                                        Mr. Thomson," asked the

              mathematics be, for which my son has getten a prize

him, replied Thomson, that mathematics meant reckoning with figures, and
              "Ooay," said the old man, "he'll ha' getten that fra'                                  m"eAn: dI
calculating.
                                                                                                     replied
were   ever   a braw hand at the countin'." After a                       ?pa"useI  he resumed    :
what,   Mr.    Thomson, might these metapheesics be                                 endeavoured,

Thomson, to explain how metaphysics was the attempt to express in language
t"heOoindaeyfin: item. aybeThhee'lol ldha'Higgehtltaenndethr atstofroad'
                                                                          still and scratched his head.

                                                                          his mither.  She were aye a

bletherin' body."

xxv  VIEWS AND OPINIONS                    1125

conceptions in all matters of intellectual moment.
" There are no paradoxes in science " was one of the

dicta of the Baltimore Lectures. In a Royal Institu

tion discourse in 1887, his phrase ran : "Paradoxes

have no place in science. Their removal is the
substitution of true for false statements and thoughts. "
Yet some of his own conclusions are intensely para

doxical ; a striking one occurs in § 479 of Thomson
and Tait, where the north edge of a crevasse run

ning east and west is shown, in certain cases, to have

a lower latitude than its southern edge !

    When confronted with a new fact or discovery,
Lord Kelvin's attitude of mind varied according to

the circumstances of the case. Thus when Kerr in

1876 announced his discovery of electro-optic stress,
Lord Kelvin was instantly and almost explosively

excited ; he had predicted this very effect thirty years

before, and had written of it to Faraday, who had

himself looked for it in vain at a still earlier date.

When Rontgen's discovery of the X-rays was
announced at the end of 1895, Lord Kelvin was

entirely sceptical, and regarded the announcement

as a hoax. On the other hand, when Crookes first

showed him the radiometer, one evening in 1874,

he sat down watching it in perfect silence for nearly

                    shading the light from at
an hour, gazing atit,
                it,

                                            it
                                                             it
intervals with his hand, or moving towards the
lamp or from and thinking -- thinking. Not even

in 1906 was he satisfied that the true theory of the
radiometer had ever been given.

     Like Faraday, and the other great masters in

1 1 26  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                CHAP.

science, he was accustomed to let his thoughts

become so filled with the facts on which his attention

was concentrated that the relations subsisting be
tween the various phenomena dawned upon him,

and he saw them as if by some process of instinctive
vision denied to others. It is the gift of the seer.
Often he had to labour to devise explanations of

that which had so come to him ; and instances are

known of his spending whole days upon trying to

frame or recover a demonstration of something that

had been previously obvious to him. Science has

found no specific name for this real power of

divination, the precious and incommunicable quality

of her peculiar genius. Those who possess, or are

              are not always able to state the
possessed by  it,
                           is
processes of thought that have guided them.it

Observation, experience, analysis, abstraction, ima

gination, all these are necessary -- but are they all
                                           It

                                                is ?
Something seems yet wanting to account for what

we call the intuition of the master mind.

surely more akin to the innate faculty of the great

artist than to the trained powers of the analyst

or the logician. Nor             without significance that

in the sentence in which Lord Kelvin stated his

inability to accept the Darwinian hypothesis of
natural selection he should have said " have felt

that this hypothesis does not contain the true
                                 :

                                       I

theory of evolution."
    Lord Kelvin had great faith in the benefits to be

gained in science by co-operation in research. His

assiduous attendance at meetings of the British

xxv  VIEWS AND OPINIONS    1127

Association stimulated younger men into combined

effort. He secured their service on Committees,1

suggested often by himself, to investigate different

subjects. He regarded the meetings of the British

Association as peculiarly   effective in advancing
scientific investigation.
wrote to The Times :--     In September 1888 he

     No one not following the course of scientific progress,

generally or in some particular department, can fully
understand how much of practical impulse is owing to the
British Association for the contributions made in the
course of the year to the scientific societies and magazines,
in which achieved results of scientific investigation are

recorded and published.

    Lord Kelvin possessed an extraordinarily exact

memory of dates and events in matters which in
terested him. He could put his finger with almost

unerring certainty upon paragraphs in his own
earlier writings, and even upon the leaves of his
notebooks of years before. His punctilious habit

of dating everything he wrote doubtless helped
him in such references. But at times his memory

as to lesser matters suffered lapses. A letter from
Tail to Lord Rayleigh touches on this :--

    1 From the year 1860, he appears to have served on no fewer than 41
such Committees, many of them being reappointed for several successive years.
The Committee on the Investigation of Underground Temperatures sat for
18 years, that on Electrical Units for 7, and that on Electrical Standards
for 10 years. The subjects of these Committees included such varied matters
as the Printing of Mathematical Tables, Magnetic Surveys, Elasticity of Wires,
Screw Gauges, Electrolysis, Endowment of Research, Patent Laws, Meteoric
Dust, Lunar Disturbance of Gravity, Tides in the British Channel, Harmonic
Analysis as Applied to Tides. He thus obtained data for tidal investigations
and theories all too briefly mentioned on p. 729. Sir George Darwin says
that the whole of his work on oceanic tides sprang from ideas initiated by
Lord Kelvin, to whom in this sense he dedicated the volume of his papers
relating to tidal theory.

1 1 28  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                            CHAP.

                                                            12 July 1886.

I happen to have preserved Thomson's statements as

made to you, pencilled (I suppose) in your own house on
a note of mine which he returned. Please let me have it

again, so that I may rub it well into him for his constant
indulgence in prolepsis. I have no doubt that, when he

        theasthdinogn,e--hethienntenfodregdot  to    do                and therefore
        it                                      it.
                                                                  it,
...pencilled

looked on

   The political views of Lord Kelvin are readily

gathered from the preceding pages of this book.

Briefly, he was, until the Home Rule split of 1886,

a moderate Liberal, and an active supporter, on

occasions, of the Glasgow University Liberal

Association, though too much master of his own

intellectual integrity to become                            strong party
                 a

                           :

                                                   a
politician. He once told me that he preferred

Chamberlain's plan of Home Rule with four Irish

Parliaments, one in each province.                                     In 1871 he

regarded war as  relic of barbarism probably

destined to become as obsolete as duelling. He

wrote to Tait, in 1879 "It must not be supposed

that those who do not want to fight are devoid of

patriotism." He did not care for Mr. John Bright,
and he had as little regard for Mr. Gladstone's

rhetoric as Mr. Gladstone had for science. More

than once he expressed the wish to see party             *

government disappear, and to have a cabinet in

which all parties should be represented, Lord
Rosebery sitting beside Lord Salisbury. After

the Home Rule disruption he became an active

       Another form of his wish was to see certain administrative questions1
removed from party politics, so as to restrict the range of party differences.

xxv          VIEWS AND OPINIONS                  1129

leader of the Liberal Unionists in the West of

Scotland. In common with his Ulster kinsmen he

regarded any concession to the Nationalist Irish

party as tending to the dissolution of the bonds
of empire : and he rarely spoke on the Unionist

platform without proclaiming himself of Irish birth.

     Once indeed, in 1881, at Birmingham, he alluded

to the land of his birth in a non-political sense, and
to the Irishman's claim to seven senses. " I

presume," he said, "the Irishman's seventh sense was

/common sense ; and I believe that the possession of

that virtue by my countrymen -- speak as an Irish
man -- I say the large possession of the seventh

sense, which I believe Irishmen have, and the

exercise of will do more to alleviate the woes of
      '

                  it,
Ireland than even the removal of the melancholy'

ocean which surrounds its shores."

     To Sir Guildford Molesworth, on June 25, 1902,

he wrote regarding                        proposed Imperial Customs

Union League --
I
                                       :
                                       a
      wish you had been born fifty years earlier and had

suggested as an essential condition connected with the

grant of self-government to our Colonies that there must

be perfect inter-colonial free trade, and free trade between

...we lost the opportunity of securing this.
the mother-country and all her Colonies. Before 1840

      it                                                                                            see

                                I

                                                            I
                                                                                                 2

                                                                 I
great difficulties now, but hope they may be partially,

and perhaps at last wholly, overcome, through our

Colonies joining us in free trade or in as near an approach

to perfect free trade as possible.        cannot, however, feel

that  would be wise for us in any case to return to

protection.

     Some contemporary notes on Lord Kelvin's later
VOL. II
                                              N

1 1 30               LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                   CHAP,

opinions are afforded by the following extract from
the diary of his niece, Miss Mary Hancock Thomson,
when staying at Netherhall in 1904: --

   Jan. 5, 1904. --Uncle William is looking very well. He

conversed all through breakfast, and did not seem to suffer from

face-ache. He spoke of the impending war between Russia and
                                                           I
Japan as likely to take place, and much to be regretted.
                                              Uncle William
spoke of Mr. Chamberlain's tariff proposals.

would like to see Free Trade all over the British Empire,

Colonies, mother-country, and all ; but thinks a small protective
tariff against foreign goods would be beneficial, especially in the

case of goods produced under conditions of long hours and too
low wages, such as we wish to avoid in England. It is evidently

the Imperial idea which attracts him. He says he sees no valid

reason to exempt food and tax other necessities: it ist dwelling-
                                            a
place, 2nd clothing, and only 3rd food, by which the poor feelis,
the pinch of poverty.
                                                                                  a
asked him would he approve of stopping the importation of
I

           a if
                 it
ready-made doors and windows from Scandinavia by tariffs? He

said not             enabled English house joiners to make houses
                           restriction of work. If tariffs on such
dearer than need be,  by

things had bad effect, and made building too costly, the tariffs

could be taken off. He very strongly disapproves of trades

unions restricting the number of bricks       bricklayer may lay

in day.

   Jan.
a                   .--At breakfast Uncle William spoke of the Colonies,

              1
                 1

and blamed the "besotted Tories" of his early days for not

wanting to keep the Colonies. The Tories then were worse than
the Liberals. Uncle William says Benjamin Franklin was

staunch imperialist ten years before the war of Secession. Many

Americans wished     to maintain the union  with England,  but the
home Government      " kicked them away."

Speaking of party politics Uncle William says party politics

and party animosities do such frightful harm that he would be
glad to see break-up of the system of two parties in Parliament.
                    a
                      a it

                            is
                                       a

                                           if

                                                    it
                                                              is
                                                                                                                     a
He says, as things are at present, members have to vote for what
they do not approve of for the sake of their party, and have to

vote against what they want  proposed by the other side,

and he thinks this most deplorable. But as long as the present

system exists        often necessary for members of Parliament to

vote in such way as not to risk putting their party out of office,
even to the voting of thing they don't approve of, or against

thing they do approve of.

xxv  VIEWS AND OPINIONS                                      1131

    Though Lord Kelvin had had much experience

in University work, the part he played in the de
velopment of University organization was limited.
He served, though rather inconspicuously, on two
University Commissions : that on the Scottish

Universities in 1890 (see p. 896), and that on the
University of London in 1889 (see p. 890). He
warmly advocated (see pages 655 and 663) the
creation of new Universities in England, and was
the originator of the movement for granting a

Charter to the Victoria University of Manchester --

a fact not forgotten when, in 1895, the Victoria

University conferred on him the Honorary Doctor

ate in Science. Several times he stated his view

that the primary function of a University was to
teach. He openly expressed his contempt for a

University that occupied itself merely in holding
examinations. He thought that there should be
" some more suitable title " than the stamp of a Uni

versity degree to mark the possession of knowledge
by those who have not had the opportunity of being
trained in any thoroughly equipped College or Uni
versity. He had a great belief that one of the main
uses of a University was to form character. Personal

contact with the teacher^if the teacher be a man ofwide

intellectual grasp and not a mere examination-grinder,
was an element of the most formative potency.

1 Lord Kelvin would assuredly have endorsed the words of von Helmholtz

respecting the formative personal influence of his own master Johannes
Muller, and equally true   to-day of the influence of  both  Kelvin and Helm
holtz on their respective                              mil   einem oder einigen
                            students: -- "Wer einmal

Mannern ersten Ranges in Berilhrung gekommen ist, dessen geistiger

Maasstab ist Air das Leben verandert."

1 1 32      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                                                       CHAP.

Lord Kelvin took part, as mentioned on p. 641,

in the modification of the Cambridge Mathematical

Tripos, which, originating mainly with Sir George

Airy about 1848, took effect in 1873 when additional

subjects (Heat, Electricity, and Magnetism) were

included in the curriculum.         He was additional

examiner in 1874, and as member of the Mathe

matical Board of 1875 supported recommendations
to the Senate for increasing the teaching staff of the
University in Mathematics. In the later changes1

in the Mathematical Tripos he took no active part,

and was not in sympathy with them. A letter to

Darwin of February 1900 will be found on p. 1151
infra. In the summer of 1906 he wrote to Routh :--

     I hope the order of merit in the Mathematical Tripos
will be maintained. The Senior Wranglership is an in
stitution of Cambridge which ought not to be abandoned.
I believe its maintenance has a good effect on the whole

Tripos, and particularly on those who are at all near the

running for the first place. It seems to me that the

division into two parts does not work well, and that the

very best reform that could be made would be to go back
to the Tripos examination as it was in 1845, with only
some modification in the way of physical mathematics.

He wrote his views more fully to Sir George

Darwin :--

                                    15 EATON PLACE, S.W.,
                                    12th Nov. 1906.
DEAR DARWIN -- I have received
                                    your letter of yester
day, and I am very sorry that you are seriously concerned

1 These were : in 1882, when the Tripos was divided into Parts iL, and
a
                                                        i.
                                                                    ;
                                                                                  i.
                                                                                           i.,
                                                                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                     i.,
iii., and the Wranglerships were awarded on (the junior) Parts ii. and again
in 1886, when the Tripos was reduced to Parts and ii., the Wranglerships

being decided on (the junior) Part  and in 1906-7, when Wranglerships (in
cluding the Senior) were abolished, and the Tripos was allowed to be taken
by candidate in hisyf«/ year.

                     VIEWS AND OPINIONS                         1133

in respect to the reorganization of the Mathematical

Tripos. I still feel as I did last June or July when I

wrote to Routh the letter to which you refer. But the

question of personal order of merit, though decided so as

to abolish the Senior Wrangler, is less important than any

reorganization which could diminish the importance and

impair the prestige of the Mathematical Tripos. I think

it would be a damage to the University of Cambridge and
to the advancement of Science throughout the world, if any

regulations should be adopted by which the efficiency of the

Mathematical Tripos, and the number of undergraduates

taking    a it,  might be seriously diminished. The unique

strength of Cambridge, as a place of experimental research,

and as a leader in the advancement of Science generally,

has depended greatly on the mathematical foundations

given to large proportion of all the undergraduates by

the Mathematical Tripos, within the last hundred and

fifty years. About week ago wrote to this effect to
                     Ia
                         if

                             it a

                                   I
Dickson, with whom had had some conversation about

when at Cambridge at the end of October.
it
      think      it  might be good thing, tending to fertilize
   I

the mathematical studies of undergraduates taking the

Mathematical Tripos,          were made  a  condition for

going in for its examination that every candidate should

have attended lecture courses and gone through practical

work, during at least two of his three years, in either the

Cavendish Laboratory or the Chemical Department.
       do not understand the state of affairs in respect to
II

                I

                                     I
                                                             I
placeting and non-placeting, and "appeal to the whole
Senate " to which you refer.
                              feel that the whole affair

must be settled by residents conversant with the whole
working of University arrangements in respect to scien

tific studies, and do not feel that my own opinions can

be very helpful towards conclusions in the present circum

stances.

      should have thanked you before for the copy of the

three papers which you have sent me, and which care

fully note are all three to be returned to you. Your own
two papers will be very useful to me in trying to think of

1 1 34  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                            CHAP.

ttohehealnpci!e--ntYohuisrtso,ry  of  the Moon,  with  or without radium

                                                                KELVIN.

    At an earlier date another question had agitated

Cambridge, namely, the financial support which the

Colleges were to be compelled to give to the Uni

versity. A letter written by Sir William Thomson

to the then Master of Peterhouse is of more than
transient interest :--

                                                                                 1 8 Nov. 1880.

    DEAR PORTER -- I was very sorry indeed to receive
the intimation this morning that I told you of in my
telegram. As I shall be obliged to go up to London the

week after next, to give evidence in compliance with a

summons on the part of the Post Office, I am afraid I

could not undertake to make the journey this week also ;

and therefore I am very sorry not to be able to attend

the College meeting on Saturday.

    As to the proposed Commissioners' Statutes, I don't

feel so much averse to the Colleges being heavily taxed
for University purposes as perhaps it is natural for

Colleges and Fellows of Colleges to feel. It seems to

me that if the money required by the University is made
good use of, the diminution in the number of Fellowships
in any or all of the Colleges which it will entail, will not

be detrimental to the original object for which the College
funds exist, and that it will not practically injure the

Colleges themselves. If we at Peterhouse had only ten

foundation Fellowships to give away instead of fourteen,

but on the other hand, our undergraduates could look

forward to University appointments (lectureships, reader
ships, with chances of ultimate promotion to professor
ships), etc., the present class of honour men would feel that
they had really more to look forward to, and that of

more satisfactory character, than they have had hitherto.
The prospect of obtaining one of the University appoint

ments would be great boon to those who really desire

to remain doing the teaching or scientific work of the
if,
                        a

                                                                                                            a

xxv                     VIEWS AND OPINIONS               1135

University, and to such men would, I believe, be more

than compensation for the shortened tenure of the

Fellowships. Then the shortened term of the Fellowships

will make a good and regular supply of vacancies ; and

so the inducements for a large number of undergraduates

of the kind that look forward to Fellowships, etc., will be

practically as good as it has been hitherto, or better.

     I daresay, however, we are all pretty much agreed on

this point ; and that it will only be in respect to matters
of proportion and adjustment of details that we really

wish to protest, or to ask for changes in the ordinances.

I should be much obliged by your letting me know if the

matter is much discussed at the meeting of Saturday, and
if it seems probable that it will be desirable to have

further discussion with as many as possible of the Fellows

--preYseonut,rs  about  Xmas    or  any  other time before May. .  .  .
                  very  truly,                 WILLIAM THOMSON.

     The Revd. the Master,

     Peterhouse Lodge, Cambridge.

     From his earliest boyhood Lord Kelvin had
been trained by his father to familiarity with not
only the symbols but the methods of mathematical
calculation, and, even before he went to Cambridge
as an undergraduate of seventeen, he was familiar
with the higher mathematics. Cambridge may have
drilled him into the facile handling of analytical and

symbolic processes, and systematized somewhat his
impulsive genius, but happily she did not maim his
own instinctive tendency toward thinking physically.

His mathematics never degenerated into symbol-
juggling : amid the most complicated of transforma
tions the expressions still held l for him physical

   "1 Every equation has a physical meaning, and you should always try to

realize it," he would keep saying.

1136  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN              CHAP.

significations. He used his mathematics --and used
it with supreme ability--as a tool to his hand in the

discovery of truth. He never allowed it to become

his master, or permitted himself to be drawn by

a mathematical argument into a non-physical in

ference. Again and again in reading even his most

abstract writings one is struck by the tenacity with

which physical ideas control in him the mathe

matical form in which he expressed them. An

instance of this is afforded by a footnote which he

appended to a passage in Vol. I. of his Mathe

matical and Physical Papers (p. 457), which is an

itexample of a mathematical result thatin his
     is

                              in
                                     a
                                   it

                                                                             is,

                                                                            it
own words, " not instantly obvious from the analy

tical form of my solution, but which we immediately

see must be the case by thinking of the physical

meaning of the result."  And again, in 1876

(Mathematical and Physical Papers, vol. iii. p. 320),

he confessed to " a non-mathematical short-cut "

which he had used  paper fourteen years before.

Not seldom did he, in his writings, set down some

mathematical statement with the prefacing remark
" obvious that," to the perplexity of mathe

matical readers, to whom the statement was anything

but obvious from such mathematics as preceded

on the page. To him was obvious for physical

reasons that might not suggest themselves at all

to the mathematician, however competent. So

much was this so that during Lord Kelvin's

lifetime purists in mathematical science have been

known to carp at Lord Kelvin's " instinctive "

xxv          VIEWS AND OPINIONS                                                                                                1137

mathematics. Yet, though few, if any -- Clerk-
Maxwell perhaps only excepted --ever possessed
the same almost magical quality of physical insight,
none could be more strict than Lord Kelvin in

requiring demonstration freed from untenable

assumptions or undemonstrable hypotheses. Daring

as he was, at least in his earlier days, in the applica
tion of analytical methods to the phenomena of

nature, he was in several ways very conservative.
For example, he never would countenance the

use in physics of the method of quaternions. At

the British Association Meeting at Cambridge
in 1845, he had met1 Hamilton, who there read

his first paper on Quaternions. One might have
thought that the young enthusiast would have
readily welcomed a new and ingenious method of
symbolic analysis : but it was not so. He would
not use quaternion notation or quaternion methods
himself, nor did he admit the vector calculus into
his works. His thirty -eight years' war with Tait 2

on this question is touched on in p. 452 supra.

The following note furnishes an example :--

    DEAR TAIT -- I see                                    July 25, 1896.

publishing the deferred              n"oscproaspsi"bleif  objection to your now
                                                           you yourself approve

of what is said in it in favour of quaternions.
    I think you are right in your use of the word
" Volapuk," but I don't think you should confine it to

1 See Popular Lectures and Addresses, vol. ii. p. 1 39.
u"seTd2haTtthaeimtm)a,oynscabeyei,un"rgg:reedp"liYethd»euCaadkyvnlaeonywt,agQe"uabotueftrnQiyouonaust'evrenaioregnostjustoton   Cayley (who never
                                                                                                                               like a pocket-map."
                                                                                                                               take it out of your

pocket, and unfold before it's of any use." And he dismissed the subject
     a
                                it,
with smile.

1 138  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                          CHAP.

the vector part of quaternions. The whole affair has in

respect to mathematics a value not     inferior to  that  of
" Volapuk " in respect to language. .
                                       . .--Yours,    K.

    Writing in April 27, 1889, to Oliver Heaviside,
he says :--

    I see I was wrong in attributing " curl " to Clifford.

He gives a good many such words, but it was, as you
say, Maxwell that first gave curl, as he in fact tells us

himself in the first volume of his E and M. It is rather

the symbolic system connected with it in your own and

Maxwell's papers that I object to, than the word itself,
and I cannot agree with any attack on Cartesian co
ordinates. All words that help us out of aphasia, provided
they promote clearness instead of the reverse, are to be
welcomed, so you will see I agree with a great deal of
your letter, but not with all, and not with the attack on

Cartesians in your last Electrician article.

    All this, however, is a mere crust on the matter of

electrodynamics. We want a thorough mechanical theory
which shall include the undulatory theory of light with

electrostatics, and electromagnetic force ; and electro

magnetic induction ; with the mobility of the medium and
all the bodies concerned, which is part of the essential nature
of the affair.

    And again, writing in December 1892 to

R. B. Hayward respecting his Algebra of Coplanar
Vectors and Trigonometry :--

    I do think, however, that you would find it would

lose nothing by omitting the word " vector " throughout.

It adds nothing to the clearness or simplicity of the
geometry, whether of two dimensions or three dimensions.
Quaternions came from Hamilton after his really good

work had been done ; and, though beautifully ingenious,
have been an unmixed evil to those who have touched

them in any way, including Clerk Maxwell.

About certain branches of mathematics he was

              VIEWS AND OPINIONS                                        1139

always enthusiastic. In praise of Fourier's " mathe

matical poem," the Tktorie analytique de la
chaleur, he never tired. He spoke of " Maclaurin's
splendid theorem," " Lagrange's splendidly powerful

method." He was immensely excited over harmonic

analysis, and the adaptation of his brother James's

mechanical integrator to perform harmonic analysis

of the tides, and to solve differential equations.
     " Do not imagine," he once said to an audience at

the Midland Institute of Birmingham, " that mathe

matics is hard and crabbed, and repulsive to

common sense. It is merely the etherealization

of common sense." If the learning of mathematical

processes had ever been bitter to him, he had early

been "brought past the wearisome bitterness" of

his learning. Was a thing hard ? Then that was

all the more reason why you should strive to master

it. And so hard became easy J to him, and his

mastery over difficult and intricate processes of

thought grew into assurance.            Hence arose the

value which he set upon the study of analysis, for

his own students 2 as well as for all students of

     1 Once when lecturing he used      twh"eroDtweoourydpooun"kmintao:tw--hewmhaatticaianm,a"theamndatictihaenn
interrupting himself asked his class :

is?" Stepping to the blackboard he

   "Then, putting his finger on what he had written, he turned to his class and
said : A mathematician is one to whom that is as obvious as that twice two
                                                        Then he resumed
makes four is to you. Liouville was a mathematician."

his lecture.

    2 The Glasgow University Calendar for the Session   1863-4,    i"n   the an
nouncements as to the Senior Natural Philosophy Class,   states :       Students

who desire to undertake these higher parts of the business of the class ought
to be well prepared on all the subjects of the Senior Mathematical Class."

See also the footnote to p. 420 above.

1 1 40     LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                       CHAP.

physics. In the Preface to Thomson and Tail

he spoke of those who " have the privilege which

high mathematical attainments confer." He com

plained to Faraday (see page 204 supra) that a
certain paper of Matteucci's, which he found some
difficulty in understanding, was " not enlivened by

any xs or ys." Yet he knew that an easy subject

might be made difficult by being overlaid with too

great an elaboration of mathematics, and declared

(Popular Lectures, vol.  329) that Laplace was
         is
so intensely mathematical that he often did not seeis

the simplicity of the results attained by his comi.
                              p.
plicated analysis. He could strive to simplify the
                                    I ii.
results of analysis once obtained witness his
                                                 p.
beautiful short statement of Green's theorem in
                                           if if in
Electrostatics and Magnetism, p. 463, and the                                                     ;
passage in the lecture on " Capillarity " (Popular                           a

Lectures,  vol. 19) where he says: "The
dynamics
drop) "    of the subject " (the vibration of dew-
           absolutely comprised in the mathematics

without symbols which    have put before you.

Twenty pages covered with sextuple integrals could
tell us no more." His deliberate attempt to write

out for his Glasgow students  1847-8 the chief

theorems in the distribution of electricity in equili

b"riwuimtho(EultectthroesteaxtipcslicitanudseMaogfndetififsemre, ntpia. l52o, rfoionttneogtrea)l
calculus " worthy of mention, only for the next
sentence stating that " the spirit, not the notation,

of the differential calculus must enter into any

investigations with reference to Green's theory of

xxv        VIEWS AND OPINIONS               1141

the potential." The following sentence from the
Preface (1872) to the smaller Elements of Natural
Philosophy further illustrates the matter :--

     It is particularly interesting to note how many
theorems, even among those not ordinarily attacked with
out the help of the Differential Calculus, have here been
found to yield easily to geometrical methods of the most

elementary character.
     Simplification of modes of proof is not merely an

indication of advance in our knowledge of a subject, but
is also the surest guarantee of readiness for further

progress.

    It is also interesting to note that he considered

the reason why De Morgan's " great book " on the

Differential and Integral Calculus (which he valued

highly) was now less valued than formerly, was
" because it is too good for examination              "
                                            purposes
                                                          !

He himself sometimes seemed to regard as wasted

the time he had to take from experimental research

for working out mathematical solutions. There is
an echo of this in his letter to Helmholtz on
p. 433. He was particularly happy in the use he
made in physics of the refined mathematical pro
cesses which are known by the names of the Prin
ciple of Least Action and the Principle of Varying
Action. One result is the important general
dynamical principle, discovered by him, that when a
material system is set impulsively in motion, the
state of motion instantaneously assumed by it is

that one for which the kinetic energy is a minimum

(see Math, and Phys. Papers, vol.           p. 109, and
           §§

                                       ii.
Thomson and Tait, 312, 317, and 327).

1 142  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN         CHAP.

    More than once he pointed out, as constituting a
difference between Stokes's mathematics and his

own, that in those solutions of differential equations
which contain in their expressions " imaginary "
quantities, he himself would always transform them

at the earliest stage so as to free the equations from
the imaginary part, while Stokes would retain them in

the more general form till the last. His passion for

models by which any dynamical idea could be

illustrated, and his often resort to geometrical
illustration of analytical results, were part of the
same frame of mind which sought for reality that it

could perceive and grasp objectively. He had the

engineering instinct to feel the magnitudes of
quantities as well as calculate them. Strange as it
may appear, he did not encourage the use of the

slide-rule for calculations : he expected a much

greater accuracy in numerical computation than one
part in a thousand.

    In a Memorial Address to the London Mathe

matical Society, in January 1908, its President,
Professor A. E. H. Love, has spoken authoritatively,
in sympathetic terms of Lord Kelvin's contributions
to mathematics. From that address the following

paragraphs are taken :--

It is fitting that on this occasion we should endeavour

to appreciate Kelvin's greatness.  Whether we have

regard to the practical utility of his inventions, to the

subtlety of his physical speculations, to the wide range of

his contributions to natural knowledge, or to the power of

his mathematical methods, we must hold him great, and

we admire him not less for the generosity of his character.

xxv  VIEWS AND OPINIONS  1143

    Of his contributions to mathematics it is perhaps fair
to say that they consisted rather in the development of

new methods, leading to new results, than in the creation
of new mathematical theories. He was an acute geometer,
but geometry for its own sake did not satisfy him. The
method of inversion became in his hands a means of
investigating electrical distributions, the partitioning of
space into equal and similar portions was a step in the
theory of the molecular arrangement of crystals. He was

a profound analyst, but his analysis always had an
immediate application. In connexion with researches on
the constitution of the earth, he incidentally revised the
whole theory of those functions which previously had been

known as Laplace's functions, and from that time forward

became spherical harmonics. It may be that his most

important contributions to mathematical analysis are con
tained in the short papers in which he gave examples of
that method for the solution of partial differential equa

tions which, unknown to him, had been initiated by Green.
He showed how to build up the requisite solutions

synthetically from simple special ones which involve the
existence of singular points. The singular point in

electrostatics is a point charge, in magnetism it is a
magnetic particle. In the theory of the conduction of
heat it is an instantaneous point source ; and the memoir
in which he developed the application of the correspond
ing special solution to obtain all the valuable solutions of

the equation of diffusion is well known. In the theory
of elasticity the corresponding singularity is a point at
which a force is applied. The special solution for this

singularity was given by him in a very early paper, and

he pointed out its possible applications, though he did
not work them out in detail. The corresponding solution

for vibratory motion produced in an elastic solid by

force applied at a point was given some years later by
Stokes, and the paper which Kelvin read to our Society
in June 1899 was occupied with a development of this
solution. The subject was the advance of waves into a

previously undisturbed elastic medium. In some of the

1 144  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAF.

 papers which he published, within the last year or two, he

 was occupied with the very intractable question of the
 advance of surface waves into previously still water, and

 he there emphasized again the importance of a special
 solution of the equations.

      It is perhaps too soon to attempt to estimate Kelvin's

 achievements, to place him, as it were, in a list in order

 of merit with Newton at the head ; but it is not too

 soon to attempt to understand the special character of his

 genius, the qualities that distinguished him from others

 whom also we honour. I think perhaps we may take

 this special character to consist in a certain very rare,
 possibly unique, combination of qualities. He combined
 the ingenuity and enthusiasm of the inventor, the exact
 knowledge of the practised experimenter, the trained

intellect of the mathematician, with a wonderful gift of
imagination. His quality of imagination is nowhere

better shown than in his early writings on electrostatics.

In this theory he owed something to Poisson, who exerted
a profound influence on the English school of mathe

matical physics ; but where Poisson saw an effective
formula, Kelvin discerned an electric image. We all
know the brilliant mathematical investigations to which

he was led by this simple intuition ; what perhaps is not

so well understood is that the concrete interpretation of
the details of abstract formulae, of which type of interpreta
tion this was one of the first examples, has become
the ideal of mathematical physics. According to the
standard that Kelvin had set up it is not sufficient to

obtain an analytical result, and to reduce it to numerical

computation, every step in the process must be associated

with some intuition, the whole argument must be capable

of being conducted in concrete physical terms. Nothing
illustrates this better than the interpretation in terms of
circulation and vortex strength of the transformation of
line integrals into surface integrals. But the most
striking example of Kelvin's simultaneously concrete and
imaginative mode of working is to be found in his theory
of vortex motion and vortex atoms. Where Helmholtz

xxv           VIEWS AND OPINIONS      1145

had found interesting types of motions of air and water,
depending upon his new integrals of the equations of
hydrodynamics, Kelvin detected a possible interpretation
of all nature, consisting in the permanence of vortices.
His theory of vortex atoms became the type to which, as
we now believe, a dynamical theory of ultimate physical

reality must conform, inasmuch as it set forth in a

realized example the doctrine that ether and atoms are

one and the same stuff, the difference between matter

and non-matter being kinematic.
     He has focussed attention upon that which is in the

end the fundamental problem of theoretical physics.
     Truly we may be proud that such a man has been

numbered among our Presidents.

    The allusion to Newton in the foregoing address
is a reminder of the fact that Lord Kelvin's mathe

matical method greatly resembled that of Newton

in its close adherence to reality. Throughout the

Principia, Newton's proofs are always closely related

to that which is the essence of the thing to be proved,
the physical problem in hand. In this Lord Kelvin

belonged essentially to the school of Newton in which
he had been trained. His reverence for Newton

was not merely the veneration felt for an honoured

name ; it was a living devotion to the genius of the
creator of the British school of Natural Philosophy.

    Lord Kelvin gloried in the discovery that
Newton -- in the wonderful Scholium to the Third
Law --was acquainted with the idea of Energy, and

its Conservation ; and he never failed, year after

year, to tell his Glasgow students of the fact. On

the occasion of one of his latest visits to Peterhouse

he was astounded to hear that, in the schedules of
     VOL. II
                                  2O

1 146      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN            CHAP, xxv

the Elementary Examinations of the University

of Cambridge, Newton's Laws are no longer

named.
" And what do they put in their place ? " he
        "             "
asked.     Nothing
                    !

With a smile of sadness and commiseration, he

turned and gazed silently into the fire.

                   CHAPTER XXVI

                   THE CLOSING YEARS

RETIREMENT from the cares and duties of his

Professorial Chair did not mean inactivity for
Lord Kelvin. With the end of the London season
he accompanied Lady Kelvin to Aix-les- Bains for
her annual cure. While here he wrote letters to
Nature on phenomena that were interesting him,
the apparent " dark flashes " which are sometimes
seen in thunderstorms, and on the " blue ray " of
sunrise, the counterpart of the rayon vert1 of Jules
Verne seen at sunset, which he observed over

Mont Blanc from Aix-les- Bains, on the morning
of August 27, 1899.

    He returned to the quiet of Netherhall to resume

the task of completing the Baltimore Lectures, and

wrote to me about phosphorescence.

                                                                   NETHERHALL, LARGS,
                                                                                October 10, 1899.

    DEAR THOMPSON -- I have looked in vain in Encyclo

paedias and text -books for something that every one

1 When the sun sinks in a clear sky behind a distant horizon, just for a

second or two, as the last trace of its disk disappears, the colour turns yellow,

then green, owing  t"oAastmtoospthheericgreednisprearsyi,ont.he  Lord Kelvin had   written me
of this in 1896:                                                                          passed
                                                                 first time I saw  it,
                                                                                      it

quickly from white through green, to intense violet. The sun was very clear,

with very little of the redness which we generally see at sunset."

                   "47

1 148          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                   CHAP.

doesn't know regarding the phosphorescence of luminous

paint, Canton's phosphorus, etc. . . .

    (r) Can you tell me what is known regarding the
effect of temperature ? I find with little copper plates

and a glass plate painted with Balmain's luminous paint,

that the warmth of my hand greatly increases the glow

due to previous illumination ; and that, if of two similar
plates, equally dosed with light, I keep one for an hour

or two warmer by 10° or 20° C. than the other, it glows
more brightly than the other till it cools, and becomes

darker than the other in a minute or two, when it is cold

like the other. Hence it appears that the warmth causes
the stored light to be given out faster. I suppose this is

well known, but I haven't found it told anywhere that I

can remember.

     (2) Is there good information as to the excitement
of ordinary phosphorescence by different parts of a

homogeneous spectrum ? I have heard it said that the

phosphorescent light may be of either shorter or longer

period than the originating light. In Stokes's fluorescence

he found the fluorescent light always of longer period

than the originating.

    (3) Do you know Dewar's splendid phosphorescence of
egg-shells and other ordinary solids at very low tempera

tures ? Was it generated by incident light at the low

temperature, and did it only appear brilliantly when the
temperature was raised ? I have been looking through
the Phil. Mag. and can find nothing of it.

(4) Do you know what Edmond Becquerel did in
respect of ultra-red radiation on phosphorescence?                I

remember him telling me of it or showing it to me a great

many years ago, but I can't remember exactly what it was,

     (5) Do  y?--ouYkonuorws  anything of  Stokes's  experiments  on
the subject                   very truly,
                                                         KELVIN.

                              NETHERHALL, LARGS, AYRSHIRE,

...DEAR THOMPSON --                  Oct. 14, 1899.

                              I am most grateful to you

for your letter of the 1 1th, and the copy of your Oxford

xxvi   THE CLOSING YEARS                          1149

Lecture. I feel now that with your Oxford Lecture 1 and

your " Light, Visible and Invisible," and the exceedingly

interesting answers to my questions in your letter, I have

all that is known on the subject, and as fair a view as

possible towards the omne scibile,

    In respect to Becquerel's effect of the extreme red, I

thought it likely that the explanation would be what you

tell me it has turned out to be.

     As to Stokes, I hope to see him at Cambridge at the

end of the month, and to extract all I can from him,

which I believe will include something vitally important

not yet published.

I hope to see yourself still sooner, as we are going to

London on Monday next for the opening of Parliament.

I would like to come and see you, if you will allow me,

in Finsbury one of these days ; and to see anything you

could quite conveniently show me in the way of phos

phorescence or the Phillips phenomenon, or any other of

the splendid things you may chance to have at hand.

Will you give me a line, addressed Fleming's Hotel,

Half Moon St, Piccadilly (where we shall arrive on Monday
evening), to say if there is any time on the forenoon of

Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday (i8th, ipth, or 2Oth)
when it would be convenient for you that I should

come?

     As to the Electrical Engineers' Dinner on December 6,

I am afraid I must not come. I expect to be settled
here for the winter by that time. I am obliged to be

very careful about exposure, and it too often happens

that dining is almost an impossibility to me on account

of a horrid demon of No. 5   nerve, who gives me  frequent
visits at most inconvenient                       properly
                             times. If I could

do anything to persuade Lord Salisbury or Mr. Balfour
to come to the Dinner, I would be very glad to do so ;

but I am afraid it would not be right, considering the

great tension and fatigues which fall upon them in the

present anxious times. However, we can speak of this

   1 Luminescence : A Lecture delivered before the Oxford Junior Scientific

Club, by Silvanus P. Thompson, May 26, 1896.

1 1 50       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN        CHAP.

when we meet, as I hope we shall, next week. --Yours

very truly,                             KELVIN.

There was a contest that autumn for the Lord

Rectorship of Glasgow, Lord Cromer having been
put forward by the Conservatives, and Lord

Rosebery by the Liberals. Lord Cromer, however,
withdrew, and Lord Kelvin was proposed as a

Unionist. The election fell on Lord Rosebery.
    At the end of the year 1899 an amusing public

controversy arose in the press from a speech of

Lord Kelvin's at a dinner given to him on December
21 by his fellow-members in the Imperial Union

Club. Pulling out his watch he remarked that they
were now within nine days and three hours of the

twentieth century. The statement being received
with cries of " No," he repeated
                   ;                  admitting that

there was large number of estimable men whoit,
             a
held that the twentieth century did not begin fora2,
another twelvemonth. For the next few days the

newspapers were full of argumentative letters.

Even The Times had a leading article on the

dispute. Challenged to produce evidence that there

ever was year "o" in the calendar, Lord Kelvin

maintained a discreet silence but he would never

admit that his reckoning was wrong.

I                                               NETHERHALL, LARGS, AYRSHIRE,

      I                                                    Jan. 1900.

    DEAR RAYLEIGH -- Best wishes from us both, to you

and Lady Rayleigh and all the boys, for the New Century.
   hope you have good news from Arthur.
        had not noticed the last part of your October article

on Capillary Att"L (because of almost incessant absence

xxvi               THE CLOSING YEARS                                      1151

from home during October) when I sent you my last P.C.,
which almost repeats the words of the last sentence of

your last paragraph but one. I am very glad to have the
separate copy, as also that of the latest blue sky, which I

knew very well, having, because of taken the April No.
                                           a it,
of Phil. Mag. with me to Italy.
                                                I
of  We   are probably going to London on the                        1at3th or                   th
    the                                                                   ITerling             we
         month. If you had been to be still                                                   5

should probably have been offering visit. Are you to
                                15th? If so,
be in   London     after the                     --Yhooupres,         we  shall
meet,               a good    many questions.
       and settle

      Lady Kelvin wrote --                                                K.

                              :

                   FLEMING'S HOTEL, HALF MOON ST., W.,

                                     Feb.  6,    1900.

      MY DEAR MR. DARWIN --Lord Kelvin asks me to

write for him. He says he cannot but regret the old

regime of Senior Wranglers and Mathematical Tripos

generally, but he does not think the present system at

all satisfactory. He does not know the circumstances

sufficiently to have an opinion as to the proposal or

proposals under consideration in respect to the future, or

whether would be practicable or desirable to return to
         it
something more like the system which has been followed
            I
previously to 1850 or 1860. He has never expressed
any opinion on the subject. He much obliged for the
                                        is

                                                i

                                                               5
papers you send, which he will read with interest. . . .

    We do not get into our own house,                             Eaton Place,

till April. We return to Largs on Thursday.

                                           NETHERHALL, LARGS,

    DEAR RAYLEIGH --                             February gift, 1900.

                                 propos of the two Kinetic
                              A
                                              I
Theorems of Liouville for which                  referred you to
" isoperimetrical problems" at the end of Vol. II. of my
P.L. and A., spent three or four hours at the R.S. and

at Fleming's Hotel trying in vain to find them through

more than 20 vols. of Liouville Journal and by aid of the's

R.S. titles of all Liouville's papers.

1 1 52  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                        CHAP.

To save you similar trouble, you may, if you care, look

to Nature, vol. xlvi., 1892, pp. 386, 490, 541, where I
found all I wanted to know on the subject, on our arrival

home last night. Let me have a post-card by return to

say where I can  find  your dis-archived  paper of Waterston.
                                                      KELVIN.
-- Yours,

    In April 1900 Lord Kelvin gave a Friday evening
discourse at the Royal Institution. This was his
ninth and last-- the first having been given (see p.
312) in 1856. His title was: Nineteenth-Century
Clouds over the Dynamical Theory of Heat and
Light.1 The clouds were these: (1) the old
difficulty that the earth and heavenly bodies move

freely through the ether, which yet acts in the pro

pagation of light- waves as an elastic solid ; (2) the
difficulty about the proportion between the rota

tional and translational kinetic energies in a gas,

which, according to the Boltzmann-Maxwell doctrine
(see p. 900), is an equality. The former " cloud " he
found no means of dissipating. The latter, in spite

of the test-cases (see p. 947) which he had proposed,
he regarded as yet unsettled, for the tests had
failed to yield a decisive answer either way. But

he could not rest with the mathematical verdict
" not proven," and he now proposed new problems
about impacts of particles during a large number of
successive flights. He believed the conclusions to
disprove the doctrine. Lord Rayleigh had recently
found difficulty in applying the law of equal partition

to the case of the newly discovered gases argon

and helium, because the law of partition disregards

1 Printed in the Baltimore Lectures (1904) as Appendix B, p. 486.

                  THE CLOSING YEARS                       1153

potential energy, and ought not to do so if poten

tial energy involves constraint ; and therefore he
also sought for some escape from the destructive

simplicity of the general conclusion. Lord Kelvin

ended his lecture by saying that the simplest way
of arriving at this desired result was to deny the
conclusion.1

    Lord Kelvin was now settled in London in his

own house, No. 15 Eaton Place, whence on June 10

he wrote to M. Mascart :--

DEAR MASCART -- . . . We think of going to Paris

about the beginning of August, and to spend a few days

there at that time. We are going to Aix-les-Bains, and
might take time on our way back to see the Exhibition if

that would be a better time than the beginning of August.

I thought of the beginning of the month because of the
" Congres International de Physique " to be held from

Aug. 6 to Aug. 1 2, at which I had promised to give a

paper on the motion of ponderable matter. I hope to

send the paper printed, in English, beforehand, to the
Secretary ; and I suppose the communication of it to the

Congres (as it is very mathematical, and not fit for reading
to a meeting) will be quite a formal matter.

   I would be greatly obliged if you would write me a

line to say what would be the best time for us to choose,

for about a week (we could scarcely take more), to see the

Exhibition, and our good friends in Paris, if we can be

so fortunate  as  t.o--fiAnldwaaynsy  in August, or  the  early part  of
September.                            yours truly,         KELVIN.
              ..

    They went to Paris, and Lord Kelvin's paper, Sur
le Mouvement d'un Solide elastique travers^ par un

    1 An unexpected confirmation of the law of equi-partition in the case of
the kinetic movements in liquids is afforded by the recent observations of
Svedberg of Upsala, and of Perrin of Paris, on the Brownian motions.

1 1 54  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

corps agissant sur lui par Attraction ou Repulsion,
was " read " at the Congress.

    While in Paris a banquet was offered to him by
the Conference Scientia, organized by M. Louis
Ollivier. Here he was hailed by MM. Mascart and
Cornu as one of the world's greatest benefactors.
In reply he alluded with emotion to his early studies
under Regnault, by whom he was taught " a faultless

technique, a love of precision in all things, and the
highest virtue of the experimenter -- patience." He
also acknowledged his debt to the " inflexible logic
and clear philosophy " of the French race.

    An interesting feature of the year 1900 was the
election of Lord Kelvin as Master of the Cloth -

workers' Company of the City of London for the
period 1900-1901. Amongst the oldest of those

ancient guilds which still hand on the mediaeval

traditions of mutual help and hospitality, the Cloth-

workers' Company has been conspicuous for the

liberality with which it has applied vast sums
from its resources to the promotion of education in

the modern applications of science to the textile

industries. It has also sought to widen its member

ship by bestowing its freedom upon men dis

tinguished in statesmanship, science, and commerce.

It had in 1891 presented the Freedom and Livery
of the Company, Honoris causa, to Sir William
Thomson, P.R.S., in recognition of his eminence in
science. In 1896 he had been elected an Assistant
of the Court. In July 1900 he was elected Master.
He took a great interest in the work of the Company,

THE CLOSING YEARS  1155

and presided diligently at meetings of the Court and
at the dinners of the Livery ; and endeared himself
to the members of the Company by his unassuming

affability. At the close of his year of office the

Court resolved to perpetuate the memory of his

Mastership by causing a portrait of him to be painted
and hung in Clothworkers' Hall. And on retiring
from the Master's Chair, in June 1901, he presented
to the Company a silver-gilt loving-cup of Eliza
bethan design, which, as "the Kelvin Cup," is
treasured by the Company along with "the Pepys
Cup " and other memorials of former Masters.

      Reference has been made on pages 717 and 994

to Lord Kelvin's active part in the business of
James White, optician, which had been taken over
after White's death by Lord Kelvin, Mr. D. Reid,
and Dr. J. T. Bottomley. In 1900 this business

was formed into a limited company so that an

interest in the ownership might be given to several
of the employees who had helped in its develop

ment. At the same time, to prevent confusion with

certain firms who had put on the market compasses

and other instruments in imitation of Lord Kelvin's

under names resembling those of White or Thomson,
the style of the firm was changed to Kelvin and
James White, Limited.

    In November Lord Kelvin was busy in London,

presiding at the Mathematical Society, where he
read a paper on the Transmission of Force through
a Solid ; presenting prizes and speaking on tech

nical education at the Birkbeck Institution ; then

1 156 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                                                               CHAP.

running down to Glasgow to speak on Unionism
to the Liberal Unionists, and on electricity supply
systems to the local branch of the Electrical

Engineers.

   At the end of the year he wrote to Mascart :--

                                                                   NETHERHALL, LARGS,

                                                                               December 30, 1900.

   DEAR MASCART --The medal in commemoration of
Gramme and the dynamo reached me yesterday. It is

most interesting and quite a beautiful work of art. I am

exceedingly glad to have and think M. Chaplain to
                                1                                  a
                                                                                is
be congratulated on having produced so good memorialit,
of great advance in the application of science for theIa
use of man.                                       aI

    hope you and Madame Mascart are well, and that the

little grand-daughter had been quite freed from her illness

and left with Louise without anxiety. Lady Kelvin joins

Ymeeari.n--kinYdoeusrts  regards  and  in  wishing    you  all  a  happy New
                         always,                                   KELVIN.
P.S.-- am very busy about new form of electrostatic
           I

voltmeter, besides never-ending mathematical trials re
Kinetic Theory of Gases, the Boltzmann- Maxwell Law,

etc. etc.

    The winter months of 1900-1901 slipped quietly
by, with work at Netherhall on revising Baltimore

Lectures, and visits to Edinburgh to preside or take
part in the Royal Society meetings, or speaking in
Glasgow on behalf of the Franco-Scottish Society
(of which he was president), or of the South African
War Relief Fund.

    In his capacity as Master of the Clothworkers'
Company Lord Kelvin visited the Yorkshire College

        Madame Louise Monnier, daughter of M. Mascart, and
correspondent with Lady Kelvin.
1                                                                                                                                       frequent
                                                     a
                                                                                                                                     a

xxv1  THE CLOSING YEARS                   1157

at Leeds, on May 10, 1901, to confer with the

Textile Industries and Dyeing Committee, and to

inspect the Textile Department, which was heavily

subsidized by the Company.  Replying to an

Address presented to him by the students, he told

them that he hoped all students in the technical

departments, both engineering and textile, would

take full advantage of the abstract sciences --mathe

matics, physics, and chemistry. They did not live

merely for mechanics and the applications of

engineering alone. There was a department of

literature and philosophy ; and he hoped the ancient

classics would not be dropped or displaced by

modern languages.

Lord Kelvin was this session appointed Chairman

of a Royal Commission to inquire into arsenical

poisoning which had been found in beer. They held

numerous sittings in London and Manchester to

take evidence, and presented their first  report  in

July 1901.
    He wrote to George Darwin :--

DEAR                              1 s EATON PLACE, LONDON, S. W.,
                                              May 20, 1901.

      DARWIN --Was Dr. Erasmus Darwin your

grandfather ? or great-grandfather ?

    I have just been reading Muirhead's Life of James
Watt with much interest, and learning, what I did not

know before, that he and your ancestor were friends, with

beautiful mutual sympathy.

    I am in the sad straits of having to give an oration

(oh, horror !) on James Watt on June 1 2 at the Glasgow
University, 9th Jubilee celebration. . . .

Glasgow University celebrated on June 12, 1901,

1 1 58         LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                               CHAP.

the four hundred and fiftieth anniversary of its

foundation. In the Book of the Jubilee? produced

by the students' Celebrations Committee, are found
pictures of the old University, and a study by Dr.

H. S. Carslaw of the student days of Lord Kelvin.

    On this occasion, after the conferring of honorary
degrees upon a large number of distinguished
delegates, including the Marquis of Dufferin and
Mr. Andrew Carnegie, Lord Kelvin delivered the
James Watt Oration in the Bute Hall.

    He gave a rapid sketch of the career of Watt,
and in particular of his relations with the University,

which had sheltered him, and for which he had

worked as instrument maker. Lord Kelvin told of

the old model Newcomen engine which belonged to

the University :--

     Watt has told us that it was in the winter of 1763-4 that he
was engaged repairing the model, and we see that his account
for the work done was not given in till June 10, 1766 ; so we
may fairly conclude that he had it in hand for more than two
years, and made a great many experiments with it. In the course

of these experiments he noticed with surprise the large quantity
of water required to condense the steam, five or six times as

much as the water primarily evaporated.

    In conference with James Black, lecturer on chemistry in

Glasgow College, it was found that this was a splendid and
previously unthought-of example of the doctrine of latent heat,
then fresh from Black's original discovery of it. With very

primitive and imperfect instrumental appliances Watt measured
the amount of the latent heat of steam at different temperatures

and pressures, and found for its variations a roughly approximate

law. When,      81   years   ladteer,Fraancsetu, dIenutseudndtoerheRareghniamultspeinakihnigs
laboratory in  the  College

of "la loi de Watt," and telling us that it was the nearest

approach to the truth which he found among the results of

previous experimenters, I felt some pride in thinking that the

        1 Published by James MacLehose and Sons, Glasgow, 1901.

XXVI                THE CLOSING YEARS                                       1159

experiments on which it was founded had been made in Glasgow
College.

    Another passage from Lord Kelvin's oration
evoked much laughter :--

    In 1767 Watt was employed to make a survey for a small
canal intended to unite the rivers Forth and Clyde. He attended
Parliament on the part of the subscribers to this scheme, and it

appears from some of his letters to Mrs. Watt that he was not
much enamoured of the public life of which he thus obtained a
glimpse; "close-confined, attending this confounded Committee

of Parliament," he says, " I think I shall not long to have any
thing to do with the House of Commons Iagain : never saw so

many wrong-headed people on all sides gathered together."

    He then referred to the association of Watt with
his friends of the Lunar Society,1 Erasmus Darwin,

Matthew Boulton, Josiah Wedgwood, Thomas Day,
Edgeworth, and Priestley. Lastly, he spoke of

James Watt's foresight in founding, in 1808, the
Watt prize 2 ; of the foundation in Glasgow of the
first University Laboratory of Chemistry, and of the
first University Laboratory of Engineering ; and of

the new James Watt Engineering Laboratory
shortly to be opened.

    Lord Lister and Sir Joseph D. Hooker were

present at the celebration, and took part in

the opening of the new Botanical Laboratory.
Altogether the celebration was a notable one ;

1 The Lunar Society, an association of kindred spirits who dined together
at two o'clock on the day of the full moon, so as to have the benefit of its

light in returning  to their homes at night.  University :  " Entertaining  a  due
    2 Watt wrote    to the Principal of the

sense of the many favours conferred upon me by the University of Glasgow,

I wish to leave them some memorial of my gratitude, and, at the same time,
to excite a spirit of inquiry and exertion among the students of Natural

Philosophy and Chemistry attending the College, which appears to me the
more useful, as the very existence of Britain as a nation seems to me in great

measure to depend upon her exertions in science and in the arts."

n6o LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

and the bringing together, as Lord Kelvin said, of
representatives of "the intellects of all the countries

of the world was a grand peace-promoting and

peace-preserving influence."

    For the supply of electric power " in bulk " from

a central station, a large undertaking had been
organized at Carville, near Newcastle-on-Tyne, to

meet the needs of the Tyneside district. The formal
inauguration by Lord Kelvin, on the invitation of
Dr. J. Theodore Merz, one of the promoters of the
enterprise, was fixed for June 17, 1901. He
stayed at Jesmond Dene House with Sir Andrew
Noble. Lord Kelvin's speech showed how greatly

he was gratified with the work, the magnitude and

simplicity of which he praised ; he even praised the

three-phase alternating-current motors.

    The month of August was spent by Lord and
Lady Kelvin at Aix-les-Bains.

    An International Congress of Engineering was

held at Glasgow early in September, and of this
Lord Kelvin was honorary president. In this

capacity, on September 3, he performed the

ceremony of formally opening the James Watt
Engineering Laboratory which had been organized
by Professor Barr (the successor in 1 889 of Professor
James Thomson). Lord Kelvin spoke of the many
engineering laboratories that had arisen since the
days of James Watt's shop in the old College. He
alluded to the creation in modern factories of testing

laboratories, and to his own experiences in regard
to the difficulties in 1857 of getting the manufacturers

xxvi       THE CLOSING YEARS                             1161

of copper wire to guarantee or even test the con
ductivity of the wire for the Atlantic cable. The

University ought not to be speculating merely on
the qualities of the ether, or on the possibility of
explaining the electromagnetic theory of light by

mechanical process, but it ought to be in touch with
all knowledge of the properties of matter discovered

by university men or scientific men, not merely for

the abstract scientific value of the knowledge, but
for the possibilities of its practical application.

    A week later the British Association met in

Glasgow under the presidency of Professor (now
Sir Arthur) Riicker, whose inaugural address was a
clear and broad summary of the accepted views of
the atomic or particular nature of matter, of the
dynamic nature of heat as consisting in movement
among these particles, and of the existence of an
all -pervading ether. In seconding the vote of

thanks to the President, Lord Kelvin said :--

     They   had heard a  most    e--loaqguaeinnstt,  convincing, and picturesque
defence    of atoms and   ether                      what ? He was afraid that

rather jaw-breaking words must be used to describe what the

defence was against It was a most rude recrudescence of

neo-pantheism, neo-Berkleyanism, neo-vitalism, and neo-nihilism,

which had grown up in the last ten years of the nineteenth century,

and grown up in a manner singularly inconsistent with the bright

and clear teaching of realities and faith in realities with which

the century commenced, and with which the century had in the

main been conducted. From the time when Thomas Thomson,

at the University of Glasgow, taught the atomic theory in his

lectures, three years after he had learned it from Dalton, it was

practically a reality, and it would be mere word-splitting to say

that we were agnostics in respect of it. Agnostic meant not-

knowing. Now we were all agnostic in most things in nature

and religion, because we did not know them ; but to be satisfied

with agnosticism or to delight in it was absolutely unscientific.
VOL. II
                                                     2P

1 1 62  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

 There were mysteries far beyond the range of science, but when
 we found so-called scientific agnosticism, having doubts and
 difficulties regarding the influence of life on matter, leaping to
 the neo-vitalism in which Professor Haeckel, following Vogt,
 recently asserted that matter and ether were not dead, but were
 endowed with sense, that was neo-vitalism with a vengeance.
 Matter and ether, we were asked to believe, experienced a wish
 for condensation, and they struggled against strains ! We were
 to picture, in fact, a lively struggle between the clay and the
 potter, the one with as much life as the other, but struggling
together to make a pot ! They had an eloquent, a picturesque,
and an argumentative statement put before them by the President,
against the idea of nihilism in science. He had declared for
clearness and reality.

    Lord Kelvin read a paper at the Association
meeting, on the Clustering of Gravitational Matter
in any Part of the Universe ; he also took part in a

discussion on the magnetic effect of electric con
vection. His paper was afterwards published as
Appendix D of the Baltimore Lectures. In it he
made an estimate of the amount of matter within

the sensible universe, fixing the limit for purposes

of calculation as a sphere of such a radius that a
star on its surface would have a parallax of one-

thousandth of a second of arc, that is 3 x io16 kilo
metres. From the darkness of the stellar sky, and the

stellar velocities observed, he concluded that the total

amount of matter in such a sphere would be about

equal to 1000 million times the mass of our sun.

So he imagined a beginning in which there should
be 1000 million suns disseminated in minute particles

or atoms uniformly throughout this gigantic sphere,

and gradually falling together into nebulous masses.

At first the density would be imperceptibly small,

and as they shrank together it would take nearly

xxvi  THE CLOSING YEARS  1163

17 millions of years to reach one-sixth the density
of water, when the velocity of the mutually attracting
particles would be comparable to the velocity of
light. Had the original amount of matter been

greater the velocity generated would have been
greater than any known stellar velocity. In those
parts of such a universe where the density was
greater than the average it would tend to increase,
while in the less dense parts it would tend to

become less ; and so great void spaces would be
found surrounding regions of greater density, in
which the clustering matter would still further
shrink together, forming nebulae, solar systems,
and worlds. Collisions would give rise to heat

and light, which would be radiated away through
the ether ; and this loss of energy would reduce
large condensing clusters to the condition of gas in
equilibrium under the influence of its own gravity
only, or rotating like our sun, or moving at moderate

speeds as in the spiral nebulae. The cooling of the

condensing masses would give solid bodies, collisions

between which would yield meteoric stones such as

we see them.

    This remarkable cosmic speculation he followed
up by further calculations, in a paper on " The
Problem of a Spherical Gaseous Nebula," which

was left incomplete at his death, and published

posthumously in the Proc. Roy. Soc. Edin., xxviii.
p. 259, March 9, 1908.

    Professor Tail, who had retired, broken down in

health, in the previous year, died on July 4, 1901.

1164 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                               CHAP.

At the meeting of the Royal Society of Edinburgh,

of which he had for many years been the secretary
and moving spirit, Lord Kelvin on December 2

read an appreciation of the life and work of his

colleague. Extracts from this appreciation, relating
to their conjoint work on the great treatise, have

already been given on p. 478 supra. But Lord
Kelvin's tribute to his friend contained much more,

in particular an account of Tait's work for the

Report of the Challenger expedition, and of his
labours for the Society. " We all feel," he added,

"that a great man has been removed ; a man great

in intellect, and in the power of using                and in
:

                                                 a
                                                         it,

                                                            I
clearness of vision and purity of purpose, and

therefore great in his influence, always for good, on

his fellow-men we feel we have lost strong and

true friend." "The cheerful brightness which

found on our first acquaintance forty-one years ago

remained fresh during all these years, till first

clouded when news came of the death in battle of

his son Freddie, in South Africa, on the day of his

return to duty after recovery from wounds received

at Magersfontein."

On January 20, 1902, Lord Kelvin read two

papers to the Royal Society of Edinburgh.                  A

spectator has thus described the meeting --
                                                       a

                                                           :

                                                                  a
                                                                                 a
On the occasion under notice Lord Kelvin, the president,
was the principal speaker. With mathematical exactness, his

Lordship took the chair at eight o'clock, not fraction of
second more or less. The meeting being duly constituted,

Lord Kelvin vacated the chair in favour of Lord M'Laren, and
                                                         It was not subject
at once dived into the heart of  tchoernesrusb.ject."  The Specification of
that people discuss at street

xxvi          THE CLOSING YEARS                                                        1165

Stress and Strain in the Mathematical Theory of Elasticity," is

how he described  seems that hitherto people who are
                  it.

                        It

                                                                       a
                                                                                      a

                                                                                         it a
interested in such matters have been accustomed to use

notation which has this disadvantage, that the strain requires

atLolotordgbeetKheeinrlfvinianistesshuiimsggaeollswytend--s--mwaahll.se    The method of notation which

                                                                         modestly refrained from claiming
                                                                         to take instead of cube tetra

hedron, figure with four corners, four planes, and six edges,
    !
and six ideal lines drawn in the directions of the six edges, any
           a
change in the shape or bulk of the tetrahedron being represented
by the elongation of the six edges of the tetrahedrons.
                                                                                       There

now The thing seemed so plain that might be left to speak
for itself. But, no. The aged seer, with voice and gesture,
                  it
                                         it

                                               it
                                                                              it
                                                                                    a
blackboard and model, shook the proposition inside out, turned

it  upside down, tried by every test known to mathematicians,

and finally he dragged the subject out of the maelstrom of weird

words and expressions, arguments and proofs, laid                                    out flat,

folded  it    neatly, and presented                                      to the audience as thing

which, although not greatly superior to that formerly in use, was

at least worthy of their acceptance.

      His other paper was on the Molecular Dynamics

of Crystal (see
    a             1080).
                                   p.

                                                                    ;
    In February and March Lord Kelvin was again

busy with the meetings of the Royal Commission

on Arsenical Poisoning but he found time to attend

meetings of the Civil and Electrical Engineers, and

to take part in discussions. On March 19 he was

present at the opening of the National Physical

Laboratory, at Bushy, by the Prince of Wales. In

seconding the vote of thanks to the Prince, Lord

Kelvin spoke of the scientific importance of exceed

ingly minute and accurate measurements, which,

though they might not strike the popular imagina
tion, were the foundation of the most brilliant

discoveries.

      Early in April Lord and Lady Kelvin left

England for trip in the United States, landing at
              a

1 1 66  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

New York, April 19. He had become Vice-Chair
man of the Kodak Company of London, and one

chief object of his journey was to view the Eastman
Photographic Works at Rochester, N.Y., and to

advise about supplying Rochester with electric

power from the Genesee River. He arrived in time
for the installation of President Butler as head of

Columbia College, New York. On the evening
of April 21 the American Institute of Electrical
Engineers gave him a great reception at Columbia

University, when he was welcomed by all the leading

American electricians -- Prof. Crocker, Prof. Elihu
Thomson, Prof. A. G. Webster, Mr. T. A. Edison,
Mr. Westinghouse, Mr. Nikola Tesla, Mr. C. F.
Scott, Mr. M. Pupin, and others. In responding to

the speeches of welcome, he referred to the Atlantic

cable days, to the telephone at the Centennial
Exhibition, to the outburst of electric lighting in
New York in 1884, and to wireless telegraphy on
ships. Then he visited Washington l as the guest
of Mr. Westinghouse, and attended a reception of
the Academy of Science, and travelled thence via
Jamestown to Niagara Falls, which were reached
on April 26. He made a brief speech at James
town, eulogizing the memory of Cyrus Field, " who

possessed an admirable and unapproachable quality,

an attribute of heroes : he never knew when to give

in." At Niagara he was greatly delighted to see

    1 While at Washington Lord Kelvin gave evidence before a House
Committee on Coinage, Weights and Measures, on the advantage of the
metric system. He stated that the English ladies in Madeira found the
metre just as convenient for buying ribbons as the yard measure.

xxvi        THE CLOSING YEARS                                     1167

the enormous practical application of the power of

the Falls to the development of electrical energy,

--a project which, originating in Europe, had, in

the hands of the Cataract Company and its engineers,
achieved nothing short of an industrial revolu
tion. While at Rochester, though in considerable

pain from facial neuralgia, he visited the University

and addressed the students in chapel. A sentence
from his address claims notice :--

It has come to be my belief that, as a man grows older, the

pictures that he looks upon with the most pleasure by his fireside

in the latter days of his life are those which bring before him
Iagain his college days. So then
                                     urge upon you that your

career here be so passed that when you become old men you

may look back on these days with no regret or shame, that you

may see     no day    wasted,   no   time spent     in idleness,  no duty
neglected.      Even  in your  days  of vacation                  that you
                                                  --and I hope

may   all achieve such  places  froinmthyeouwrowrldorkt--hatdoyosuomceatnhinngowwoarnthd
then  enjoy periods of   rest

while the doing. Make your whole life full of pictures which

are bright, and clear, and clean.

    From Rochester Lord and Lady Kelvin went

to Cornell University, where a reception for them

was organized by President Schurman and Pro
fessors Nichols and Thurston. Thence, after two
days, they travelled to New Haven, spending
the week-end at Yale University, where the

degree of LL.D. was conferred on Lord Kelvin.

Here he spoke of research laboratories, and of

the need of giving the professors the time and
means to prosecute research, but not by cutting
them off from their students, whom they should

interest personally in the work. " A man comes

away from his class-room with a new impulse to

1 1 68               LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                CHAP.

continue his work of research." From Yale Lord
and Lady Kelvin returned to New York, where

they were entertained by many friends ; they also

ran over to Philadelphia for two days as the guests
of their old friend Mrs. W. P. Tatham.

    Two of Lord Kelvin's dicta, preserved by the
press, were --

      Beautiful as that wonderful work of nature [Niagara]                              is,
                                                                                           is it
would be more beautiful still      those waters fell upon turbine
         a
                   is
                       a

                                 if

                                                  a
                                                                     a
wheels every one of which was turning the wheels of industry.

is a   The air-ship, on the plan of those built by Santos-Dumont,
      delusion and snare. A gas balloon, paddled around by oars,

      an old idea, and can never be of any practical use. Some

day, no doubt, some one will invent flying machine that one

will be able to navigate without having to have balloon attach

ment. But the day          long way off when we shall see human

beings soaring around like birds.

      At Cornell he told the students --
                     is
                         a

                                                                                     :
      A  university  place that fits some men for earning                               a

livelihood, and that makes life better worth living for all men.

    At Philadelphia, speaking of the Rhodes scholar
ships for Americans at Oxford, he spoke hopefully

of this step towards unification of Anglo-Saxon
peoples, as helping to correct "the political mis
hap " of the last half of the eighteenth century

adding --
         :

                          I it
                                              is
                                                                                                                                                 ;
     We have shown that           possible to get on well together
under separate flags, but  wish we were all under one flag and
under one government.

     Bound for England, on board the Lucania,

when off Nantucket, on May 12, the following
farewell message was despatched to the New York

Herald:--

           THE CLOSING YEARS                                                    1169

    By Marconi wireless telegraph through the ether, Lord and
Lady Kelvin send warm thanks to kind friends, electric and not
electric, who made their three weeks' visit to America most

interesting and delightful.

    The following letter   from the Premier, the
Marquis of Salisbury, to
permission :--            Lord Kelvin, is given by

PDnv.ate-                                                     2oth June 1902,
                                                           DOWNING ST., S.W.

    MY LORD -- I have had the honour of receiving a

command from the King to inform you that His Majesty

has been pleased to direct that you should be sworn a

member     oocfcaHsiisonMoafjesthtye'sapMporosatcHhionngouCraobrolenatPiorniv.y--CIouhnacviel
on the

the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship's obedient

servant,                                                         SALISBURY.

The Lord Kelvin, G.C.V.O., F.R.S.

   His Majesty King Edward VII. decided to

institute a new distinction, the Order of Merit,

resembling the Prussian Order Pour le Merite, but

differing from it in admitting not only men most
distinguished in Science, Literature, or Arts, but
also naval and military men. The following letter

was written by command of the King :--

                                                           BUCKINGHAM PALACE,

                                                                 25 June 1902.

DEAR LORD KELVIN -- I am commanded by the

King to say that he hopes it will be agreeable to you to
accept the " Order of Merit."

This order has just been instituted by him, and the

number     oafndme1m2 bceirvsiliains s.li--mitBeedlietvoe  24 ;  twelve naval and
military,                                                   me,  yours very truly,

                                                           FRANCIS KNOLLYS.

1 1 70       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                  CHAP.

                                                               15 EATON PLACE, S.W.,
                                                                 June 26, 1902.

    DEAR SIR FRANCIS KNOLLYS --The gracious message

from the King which you give me in your letter of yester

day touches me deeply. I feel most grateful to His

Majesty  for his  kindness in   conferring on me   the honour
of the   " Order    of Merit "    now instituted
                                                  by him. I

fervently pray that he may in due time be restored to

health.

    Will you, when it may be done, express my warmest

gratitude to the King?
    May I also through you express to the Queen my

heartfelt sympathy, and my earnest hope that this great

affliction may pass away happily, and that the sorrow of
the subjects of the King in all parts of the world may

soon be followed by joy in hearing of His Majesty's

recovery.

Believe me, with hearty congratulations to yourself on

the honour which the King has conferred on you, yours
                                                  KELVIN.
very truly,

    By a happy coincidence Lord Kelvin received

his honours on his birthday ; he was seventy-eight
on June 26th. The other civilian members of the
Order of Merit were, Lord Rayleigh, Lord Lister,
Sir William Huggins, the Rt. Hon. W. E. H.
Lecky, the Rt. Hon. John Morley (now Lord
Morley of Blackburn), and Mr. G. F. Watts, R.A.

    The Athenaeum Club entertained at dinner on
July 25th all the twelve members of the Order of
Merit, except Mr. Lecky and Lord Wolseley who
were out of England, Lord Avebury presiding as
trustee of the Club. Mr. Balfour described the
company of about 1 20 members as one of " undiluted

distinction."

xxv.      THE CLOSING YEARS                                             1171

    The postponed Coronation kept Lord Kelvin in

England somewhat later than usual ; he and Lady
Kelvin were present at that unique and splendid

ceremonial on August 9, 1902, in Westminster
Abbey. He was sworn in as a Privy Councillor on
the nth, and on the I2th they left for Aix-les-Bains.

    On September roth the British Association met
in Belfast -- the first time since 1874 in that city.

Lord Kelvin sent a paper --on an Animal Thermo
stat--but he was not present, being away at Aix-les-

Bains.

                                    II,NETHERHALL, LARGS, AYRSHIRE,
                                    October               1902.
          RAYLEIGH -- Has anything been done to test
DEAR

with minute accuracy the angle of minimum reflected

light due to incident light polarized perpendicular to the

plane of  incidence?             "  Jamin's observations   and yours    are
designed  to give " k               with great accuracy   ; but I do    not

see in your investigation, and I suppose there is not in

Jamin's, any indication of the minutely accurate angle of

incidence which absolutely annuls the component of the

reflected light polarized perpendicular to the plane of the

incidence. This angle of incidence is very approximately,

almost quite rigorously even for diamond, the exact angle

of incidence for minimum intensity of the reflected light.

    A few months ago, and particularly in the last few

days, I have got a great lift in, and up out of, my 1888

(Phil. Mag. 2nd half-year) theory of slow condensational-
rarefactional waves to account for Fresnel's " tangent law."

My present difficulty is to explain deviations from it as
large as those found by Jamin, and I take great comfort

from the last three lines of your paper (Scientific Papers,
v" onlo. tiiig. upil.ty5"11o)f.     But do you really     think          verdict
                                 breaking of " Fresnel's   law "  your  possibly
                                                                  can

acquit diamond? I wish it could.

1 172 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                            CHAP.

My theory would allow comfortably, say in the case of

diamond, one or two or three minutes' deviation from
tan"1/*, of the angle for minimum light, but not comfort

ably more than three minutes. But the residual com
ponent polarized perpendicular to the plane of incidence

and reflection is enormously nearer nothing than, from
the time of Airy, we have been led to believe is the truth,

for diamond.

My amended theory makes the velocity of condensa

tional waves practically infinite in pure ether ; but in a

transparent   loiqfuliidghto.r--soYloidurasb, out     T^,  or  less  than -^^  of
the velocity                                                          KELVIN.

   P.S.-- If you are in Scotland you and Lady Rayleigh
must give us a benefit here. If you are at Whittingehame

give the Prime Minister my best wishes for a happy and
not too long autumn session. The Education Bill seems

to me sure to come through happily and work well when

it becomes law.

    On October 31, in a discussion at the Physical
Society on Mr. Ridout's paper on the size of atoms,

Lord Kelvin said :--

In dealing with the subject of atoms, it was necessary to con

sider the atoms of electricity ; the atomic theory of electricity,
now almost universally accepted, had been thought of by Faraday

and Clerk Maxwell, and definitely proposed by Helmholtz. The

atoms of electricity were very much smaller than the atoms of

matter, and permeated freely through space not occupied by

them. An atom of electricity in the interior of an atom of

matter experienced electric force towards the centre of the atom.

We were forced to conclude that every kind of matter had elec

tricity in    and Lorentz had named electricity as the moving
            it,

                                                   ;
thing in atomic vibrations. If the electrions, or atoms of elec

tricity, succeeded in getting out of the atom of matter, they

proceeded with velocities which may be as great as the velocity

of light, or greater, or less and the body would then be radio
active. It was therefore not surprising that some bodies showed

radio-active properties, but rather surprising that such properties

were not shown by all forms of matter.

xxv1         THE CLOSING YEARS                                   1173

M. Mascart sent to Lord Kelvin one of the

Mascart medals which had been struck as a pre

sentation to him by his friends, and received the

following acknowledgment :--

                                            NETHERHALL, LARGS,

                                                            Jan. 22, 1903.

      DEAR MASCART -- It was most kind of you to let one

of the medals be sent to me, and to let me have the

honour and pleasure of receiving the first of the twenty.
    Lady Kelvin and I are delighted to have and we
                                                         is it,
admire very much as work of art and as an admirable
      it               Ia
likeness of yourself.it    hope Mme. Mascart                     pleased

with      in this respect. She must certainly be greatly

pleased to have  it    as a perennial token to commemorate

the admiration and gratitude which electrical engineers

feel in return for the great benefits they have received

from your scientific work in electricity.

      am just now feeling myself most grateful to you for
I
                            treasure from which                  am in
                                       a

                             I
your Traite <fOptique,                                   I
                                                            I
cessantly drawing knowledge to help me in efforts to

explain some of the outstanding difficulties of the

dynamical theory of light.                almost believe that have

really succeeded at last in reconciling Fresnel's laws with

definite real dynamics for transparent solids and liquids,

and in explaining what we know by observation of metallic

reflection.  hope with some confidence that volume
             I                                           a
                                         I
of my old Baltimore Lectures of 1884, amended, extended,

and printed in the course of 19 years, will be published
before summer, containing all have been able to do, or

tried to do, in Physical Optics.

     Lady Kelvin thanks you for your letter, and joins in

kindest regards to you and Mme. Mascart. -- Yours,

                                                         KELVIN.

    Stokes had died on February 1903, and at thep.
request of the editor of Nature, Lord Kelvin wrote
the notice of his scientific work in that journal for1,
February 12, 1903, vol. Ixvii. 337. Lord Kelvin's

1 1 74  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

views on the memorial to Stokes, which his friends

were proposing, are succinctly expressed in the

following extract from a letter he wrote to George
Darwin on February 10, 1903 :--

    As to the Stokes memorial, I have written to J. J.

Thomson that the very best memorial, most useful
practically and most suited to keep his memory ever fresh
among workers in science, would be an earliest possible

publication in collected form of all his scientific papers
not in the three volumes already given by the University
press, and including MSS., if found, intended for publica
tion but not fully prepared for press. That would be a

much more valuable and estimable memorial than any
thing that could be done by a £3000 or ^4000 or more
collected by subscription.

    A strained effort to collect money would be a very

painful thing in connexion with the memory of Stokes ;
and I am sure the idea of such an effort would have been
most distasteful and painful to himself.

   A short speech which Lord Kelvin made on

May i, 1903, on belief in creative power, was the
cause of considerable public comment at the time.
The matter has been dealt with, on p. 1091, in the
summary of Lord Kelvin's religious opinions.

    On May 1 1 Lord Kelvin went to Cambridge
to the unveiling of a bust of the lamented Dr.

John Hopkinson, in the Engineering Laboratory,

which owed so much to him and his family.

He spoke of Hopkinson's achievements, and ex

pressed the hope that whatever new regulations

were made for the classical tripos or for new triposes,

they would never forget the old mathematical tripos

which formed one sure foundation in the application

xxvi  THE CLOSING YEARS  1175

of science, chemistry, physics, engineering, dynamics,

and the arts in general.

    On June 19, 1903, Lord Kelvin propounded to
the Royal Society of Edinburgh the new views of
the atom hinted at in his letter to Lord Rayleigh

of October n, 1902, and stated on p. 1081 supra,

    On the 24th the   reconstituted University of
London for the first
                      (and only) time conferred
Honorary Degrees.     The recipients were their

Royal Highnesses the Prince and Princess of
Wales, Lord Kelvin, and Lord Lister. There had

been some opposition in the Senate on the ground

that intellectual merit alone ought to be recognized

by a University, not rank, nor political distinction,

nor military glory, as a title for a degree. At the

ceremony of presentation, which took place in the
Royal Albert Hall, the capping of their Royal

Highnesses was received with respectful and loyal

cheers. But when Lord Kelvin and Lord Lister

stepped on the dais to be presented to the Chan

cellor, the outburst of cheering was truly remarkable,

and lasted many minutes. It was a spontaneous

ovation to the princes of science. In presenting
Lord Kelvin, Professor (now Sir William) Tilden,
Dean of the Faculty of Science, pronounced the
following oration :--

   My Lord the Chancellor, I present to you William Thomson,

Baron Kelvin of Largs, for the degree of Doctor of Science,
honoris causa. The illustrious son of a family famous for

mathematical talent, for more than half a century Lord Kelvin
filled the office of Professor of Natural Philosophy in the ancient

1 1 76  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

University of Glasgow. Two generations have passed since he

entered on his professorship, and the advances in physical

science which have distinguished the nineteenth century from all
preceding epochs have been largely due to the influence of Lord
Kelvin in promoting true ideas concerning the conservation of
energy, the laws of thermodynamics, and their application to the
mechanics and physics of the universe. His untiring intellectual

activity has led him also to inquire into problems interesting to

the chemist and geologist as well as those which are important
to the physicist and engineer. He has calculated the probable
size of atoms ; he has studied the structure of crystals ; he has

estimated the age of the earth. But the world knows him best

as the man who has shown how practically to measure electric
and magnetic quantities, and has made it possible to link

together distant continents by the electric telegraph. It is he
who has shown how to neutralize the effects of iron on the com

passes of ships and how to predict the tides, and who has thus
taught the mariner to steer safely over the surface of the ocean,
and to sound, as he goes, its depths and shallows. A greater
philosopher than Democritus, in him are united the qualities of

Archimedes and Aristotle. Regarded with affectionate reverence
by his contemporaries, it cannot be doubted that his name will
shine brightly through long future generations. In offering a

place of honour to such a man the University confers lustre on

itself.

    At a reunion at Peterhouse, on July 7th, 1903, of
former members of that College, Lord Kelvin found
himself the senior of the company. There was
a reception by the Master in the garden, a Com

memoration Service in the chapel, and a dinner.

To the toast of Floreat Domus Divi Petri, Lord

Kelvin responded, with a tale of the times of old,
of Cookson, of Hopkins the renowned, of Fuller

the kindly and inspiring, and of Routh who had

picked up Hopkins's mantle ; advocating the reten
tion of some classics in the work of every student ;

and concluding with memories of the founding of the

C.U.M.S. in 1843.

xxvi     THE CLOSING YEARS                                       1177

    In the House of Lords on July 21, in committee
on the Motor Car Bill, Lord Kelvin moved a pro
vision to enable the Local Government Board to

make regulations designed to prevent the use on
public roads of racing cars of great power.

   A week later he was in Paris, on his way to Aix-

les- Bains, and was receiving a cordial welcome from

the savants of the Acadtmie des Sciences as of old.

    Before he left Aix he wrote to Lord Rayleigh :--

                              Aix LES BAINS,

                                                                      Aug. 24, 1903.

    DEAR RAYLEIGH -- Can you tell me roughly (or fairly

approximately) how much heat is evolved per gramme of

cordite fired? Quite a rough estimate will serve me.
I want to compare it with the heat continually emitted by

radium, found by Curie      (aabndoutby90Cu" rciealoarineds  Dewar at the
temp" of liquid air) to be                                   " per gramme

per hour, which I was assured meant 90 times the heat
required to raise a gramme of water by i° cent. This

seems almost incredible : to raise to boiling-point its own

weight of water in lh 6m ! At this rate in 1000 hours it

would emit many times as much heat as the greatest, so

far as I know, ever found for the same weight, in the most
intense chemical action or burning. It seems to me

utterly out of the question to suppose, as Rutherford and

others have done, that the heat emitted by radium is

generated by a self-contained store of energy.

     I have sent (told the printers to send) 24 copies of
corrected revise of the enclosed to Lees ; and I am

answering him that I cannot be present at the B.A.

discussion on radium, but that I intend to send a few

words towards the discussion, in which I shall refer to

this bit of my Sec. XX.

     Suppose the radius of an atom of radium to be i0*bo
that of O or N or H, etc. It would go through Robin's 1

VOL. II  1 Hon. R. J. StrutL

                                                             2Q

1 1 78                      LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                     CHAP.

centimetre-thick plate of lead with very little resistance.

If each atom of radium takes an exceptionally great

number of electrions in it to neutralize                                     will be
                                                                       it,
                                                                           it

                                                                                        it
exceptionally liable to have electrions knocked out of

by collisions with other atoms of radium, or by the

thermal motions in bromide of radium. Thus the
"       rays " would
    a.                           be  atoms           of radium         with  less than

neutralizing quantum of electrions. These would be
                                     very easily absorbed " according to
greatly obstructed               ("

Robin)   by        solids.  are,      !inall       probability,   merely electrions
    The  "          rays "
               y /3                    it
or      atoms      of rraeyssin"ouwsouelldecbtreicimtye. relyis
        The "
                                                               vapour  of  radium.

        But Rutherford's experiments, and Ramsay's and

Soddy's experiments (Nature, Aug. 3), seem to prove            1

that " bromide of radium "                           not merely bromine com

bined with metallic atom, but has at least one other
element combined with which, when " radium bromide "
is

   Ia

                         a
    dissolved in water, leaves the solution and shows itself

as self-luminous gas

        don't intend to do more for the discussion than to

offer some suggestions for consideration.

        We have been much grieved to hear of Lord Salisbury's

death.   I         was very sorry when he retired from office, but

hoped he would have many years of well-earned repose
from public duty. His country and the world owe him

gratitude for great benefits. What a sadly tragic time

it      has been, with the sudden illness and death of Lady

Galloway, when Lord Salisbury's life was so near the

eRnady.leigLha.d--y YKoeulvrsin   joins  in   sympathy         with    you and Lady
                                                                          KELVIN
                                 ever,

    They left Aix for Netherhall, but took few                               a
                                                                                     a 9.
days at Southport to attend the meeting of the
British Association, which opened September
Here Lord Kelvin propounded his electro-ethereal

theory of light (see                     p.   1082), and took part in

discussion on the emanations from radium.

xxvi  THE CLOSING YEARS  1179

   All his life Lord Kelvin had venerated the
memory of John Pringle Nichol, the teacher who

had awakened in him the love for experimental

physics when he was a little lad. He had passed
away in 1859, and his son, Professor John Nichol,
had followed him in 1894. On October 17, 1903,
Lord Kelvin spoke at the unveiling l of a memorial
window in the Bute Hall of the University of

Glasgow, and feelingly recalled the days in which
he himself was a student under the elder Nichol.

    An honorary Doctorate in Science was conferred
on Lord Kelvin by the University of Wales, in
Cardiff, on November 13, 1903. He was presented
by the Dean of the Faculty of Science, Professor
Claude M. Thompson, in a speech which laid
emphasis on the knowledge-producing quality of his
scientific work. Domine illustrissime et eruditissime,
Britanniarum omnium insigne decus, in doctoratum
nostrum rite jam admissum, Cambria te salutat,
were the words of the deputy-Chancellor in admitting

him to the degree.
    On the same visit he was made an honorary

member of the South Wales Institute of Engineers,
and attended the laying of the foundation stone of

the new University College.
     Presiding on December 2 at the West of Scotland

Liberal Unionist Association, Lord Kelvin declared

that the duty of the Association remained as clear

now as it was when it was founded. Though they

might not agree on the fiscal question, their members

     1 The ceremony and speech are recorded in Nature, vol. Ixviii. p. 623,
October 29, 1903.

n8o LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                    CHAP.

would be welcomed provided they were thoroughly

sound in regarding it as a principle that nothing

should be done to imperil the union between Great

Britain and Ireland. A week later, apologising for

absence from a meeting to establish a branch of the

Tariff Reform League in Glasgow, he wrote that

his adherence was based on the Colonial reason, but

that in his opinion moderate and wisely chosen

import duties would be beneficial to this country and

be a convenient and proper mode of raising revenue.
   iLord Kelvin had at last finished the rewriting of

the Baltimore Lectures, and sent a copy to Mascart
in February 1904. " I am taking advantage of my
freedom," he wrote, "in having got the long-delayed

volume off my hands, by going back to some old

deferred work on Cauchy and Poisson's problem on
water waves." He was now in London and spoke

in the House of Lords in advocacy of the com

pulsory adoption of the metric system.                     In his

speech on the Metric System Bill he told how his

life had once been endangered by a mistake :

between "drachms" and "drams." On March 16

he wrote again to Mascart that he had been for six

weeks perfectly free from face-ache, but that within

the last few days it had been troubling him again ;
so he and Lady Kelvin proposed to leave London
for Mentone on March 25, "to enjoy ten degrees

1 This was in his lecture-theatre, in the experiments which he showed

once a year of measuring the speed of a rifle-bullet by firing it into a block

of wood hung as a ballistic pendulum. His assistant would charge an old
muzzle-loading rifle, Lord Kelvin would then, kneeling on one knee, take

deliberate aim at the pendulum a few feet away, and fire ; his students

cheering frantically.  On the occasion in question he stopped his assistant

from loading with a charge that seemed dangerously large.

xxvi        THE CLOSING YEARS                                 1181

of more indulgent sky," and hoped to spend three
or four days in Paris.

    While Lord Kelvin was in the Riviera, the Earl of

Stair, the Chancellor of the University of Glasgow,
died. On April 6, 1904, the General Council of the
University met to choose a successor. The Lord
Provost moved and the Lord Advocate (Mr. C. Scott

Dickson, K.C.) seconded the nomination of Lord

Kelvin. There being no other nomination Principal

Story declared him to have been unanimously elected.

The installation was deferred till the autumn. " It
will be a great happiness to me," Lord Kelvin
wrote to Principal Story, "for the rest of my life
to be Chancellor of my beloved University of

Glasgow."

    On his eightieth birthday, June 26, 1904, Lord
Kelvin received many tributes of affectionate regard.
To his niece, Miss May Crum, he wrote :--

      DEAR  MAY --Your little   note  1 5 EATON PLACE, S. W.,
                                           June 26, 1904.

                                      and the Scottish sham

rock from the field of Bannockburn are delightful. Thank

all the others too for thinking of me to-day. I had a

telegram yesterday from six of my old students in Tokio.
" Heartily congratulate your birthday, Masuda, Taniguchi,

Watanabe, Mano, Goto, Tanakadate." Was it not good

of them to remember me in the middle of their terrible

war   !all.Y--ouYrouAruanftfeFctaionnnaytejouinnsclem, e  in  thanks and love    to
you                                                                     KELVIN.

             Miss Crum,
Auchenbowie, Bannockburn, N.B.

      Lord Kelvin attended the Fourth of July dinner

1182  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                        CHAP.

of the Anglo-American Reunion in London, and

proposed the health of Mr. Choate, the United

States ambassador, whom he greeted as one who

had worked for the public good, and as a resolute

lover of peace.

    On August 17 the British Association met in
Cambridge under the presidency of the Rt. Hon.

Arthur J. Balfour- His presidential address dealt

with the modern doctrines of physics.

Here in Cambridge was the classic ground of physical dis

covery. Nowhere in any corner of the world could be found a

spot connected with so many men eminent as the originators

of new and fruitful physical conceptions. He passed by Bacon

and Darwin, being   concerned   rather with  thCeamillbursidtrgioeu, s--lianelinoef
physicists who had    learned  or taught in

stretching from Newton through Cavendish, Young, Stokes,

Maxwell ; through Kelvin, who embodies an epoch in himself,

down to Rayleigh, Larmor, J. J. Thomson, and the scientific

school centred in the Cavendish laboratory. The task which

the physicists had set themselves to accomplish was not merely

the discovery of laws connecting phenomena. The object of the

physicist is physical reality. That such a reality exists, though

philosophers have doubted, was the unalterable faith of science.

One of the tasks of physics had been to frame a conception

of the physical universe in its inner reality. The conception

framed in the end of the eighteenth century was that the universe

consisted of various sorts of ponderable matter with action at a

distance between its constituent masses, together with certain

imponderables called heat, and electric fluids, and the corpuscles

supposed to constitute light. About a hundred years ago Young
had reopened the undulatory theory of light, and with its establish

ment came the acceptance of the notion of that new constituent,

an all-pervading ether filling unbounded space.

But to-day the conception was different ; for there were those

who regard gross matter, the matter of everyday experience, as

the mere appearance of which the physical basis is electricity ;
that the elementary atom of the chemist is but a connected

system of sub-atoms which are electricity itself; that while in

most cases these atomic systems may seem almost eternal they

are not less obedient to the law of change than the everlasting

heavens themselves. But what were these electrical sub-atoms

xxvi  THE CLOSING YEARS  1183

or electrical monads? It might be, as Larmor has suggested,

that they were mere modifications or knots in a universal ether.
Surely here was a very extraordinary revolution. Two centuries
ago electricity seemed but a scientific toy : now it was deemed
to be the reality of which matter was but the sensible expression.
Mass was not only explicable, it was actually explained ; and so
far from being unchangeable, it changes with its velocity. Further,
each atom must now be regarded as a vast store of intrinsic
energy : so that when a sun cooled down by radiating away
its sensible heat, its energy was not (as used to be supposed)
exhausted : the amount thus lost would be absolutely insignificant
compared with that which remained stored up within its separate
atoms. The new electric theory analyses matter into something
which is not matter at all, so that matter is not merely explained,
but explained away. Here was something of a paradox. We
claimed to found all our scientific opinions on experience ; yet the
conclusions at which we arrive are to all appearance fundamentally
opposed to it : our knowledge of reality is based on illusion.

    " Arthur Balfour is just in the arms of meta
physics," was Lord Kelvin's comment, as he walked
away from the Senate House on the arm of Sir

Henry Roscoe. Probably no one would resent the
dictum less than the distinguished statesman. And

indeed if physics is denned as the science of dead
matter ; if the aim of natural philosophy were

literally to reduce all the problems of the material
universe to dynamics ; if all else must be explained

in terms of matter and motion only, then the

twentieth -century doctrine which explains matter

in terms of electricity and ether is truly meta

physical. Throughout the fifty-eight years of his
long quest Lord Kelvin had retained with marvellous

activity his formal powers of mathematical analysis

and physical insight. But the very dominance of

those dynamical conceptions which he had done so

much to extend, militated against his acceptance of

1 1 84  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

the new views which had been shaping themselves
in the brains of the younger men who were

intellectually his disciples.

    Lord Kelvin read two papers at this meeting :

one "On Insulation in a Vacuum," the other "On

Models of Combinations of Atoms and Electrions to

demonstrate the Properties of Polonium or Radium."
He explained that he proposed as models those in

which the equilibrium involved is purely statical,

because he knew of no instance, in the whole of
dynamics, of systems choosing successive stages of

stable motion such as was proposed by the upholders
of the most commonly-accepted form of the electronic

theory of matter. He had in the previous year
denied the possibility of that theory, and of the
hypothesis of the disintegration of the atom to

account for radio-activity, and had suggested that

it was due to some external source of energy. His

reason had been his alarm at the statements that

the emission of energy from radium went on " for
ever." Now that he saw that this was not meant,

he frankly abandoned the suggestion of external
source in favour of an intra-atomic source of energy.

    On October 28 Lord Kelvin gave at St. George's
 Hospital School an address on the Living Cell,

which is described on p. 1 102.

    At the installation of Lord Kelvin as Chancellor

of the University of Glasgow on November 29,

 1904, his first duty on assuming office was to confer

the honorary degree of LL.D. upon H.R. H. the

 Princess Louise, Duchess of Argyll. Honorary

xxvi  THE CLOSING YEARS  1185

degrees were also conferred by him upon Principal
Lang of Aberdeen, the Hon. C. A. Parsons, Signor

G. Marconi, and others. It was to him a real
pleasure that his nephew, James T. Bottomley,

who had for so many years been associated with

him as deputy Professor, was also included
amongst the recipients of the honorary degree.

Then he pronounced his inaugural address. He
spoke of himself as "a child of the University of

Glasgow," in which he had lived for sixty-seven
years (1832-1899). He alluded to his father, and
to his father's experiences as student and afterwards

as professor in the old Glasgow College ; and added
several touching reminiscences of his teachers in his
own happy student days. He spoke of the pioneer
work in laboratory teaching in anatomy, chemistry,
natural philosophy, and engineering ; of the recent
reforms and extensions, and of the benefactions of
recent date. Congratulating the city and the Uni

versity on the splendid equipment and staff, he

concluded by returning thanks for having been

elected Chancellor, and by heartily wishing success

and happiness to all professors, and lecturers, and
teachers, and students in every department. One
word, not in his printed address, he interposed, of
regret that Greek should be dropped out of any
University course ; a word of the usefulness of

teaching during early life the things that do not
come naturally to the student ; one little warning
against the spirit of the age in too much following
the bent of the mind, feeding it only with things

1186        LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                      CHAP.

convenient, and neglecting those things which yield

increase only to toil and cultivation.

    In the public press there were many notices of
Lord Kelvin's succession to the Chancellorship.
The St. James s Gazette spoke of the man him
self:--

    Wealthy and famous, and of prodigious learning, he is still
one of the most modest and simple-minded of men, with an

exquisitely gentle face framed in snow-white hair, and a smile

which is like a benediction. It was a great day for him, but a

still greater for Glasgow University.

He wrote to congratulate Lord Rayleigh :--

                                           NETHERHALL, LARGS,

...DEAR RAYLEIGH -- .                                     Dec. 23, 1904.

                                           It was only after I last

wrote to you, and you told me you were starting for the

Continent, but not why, that I heard the Nobel Prize had

been awarded to you. I heartily congratulate you, and

so does Lady Kelvin, who also joins in best wishes for

Christmas and the New Year for you and Lady Rayleigh.

I hope you both enjoyed your trip to Stockholm, and

are happily at home, all well, and caught no colds.

I am busy on canal ship-waves for R.S.E., January

23, and     --souYnoduirnsg,  machine  (a  very new plan) and com
pass, etc.                                                       KELVIN.
[P.S. by Lady Kelvin]. --The "demon" has been very
wicked lately, and Lord Kelvin has had a very bad time.

                                           F. A. K.

    New Year 1905 found Lord Kelvin very far
from well. On January 16 Lady Kelvin wrote to
Mrs. Ramsay MacDonald :--

    I am sorry to say he has been suffering terribly badly
from the pain in his face. It has been quite the longest

and worst attack that he has ever had, I think ; and

THE CLOSING YEARS  1187

there is hardly any diminution yet. He has hardly been
out since his installation on the 2pth Novr. We went

up to see a doctor in Glasgow last week, but doctors
don't seem to be able to do anything for this particular
ailment, and acknowledge themselves helpless. He was
better for a day or two, but to-day he is very bad, owing

partly, I think, to a roaring hard east wind, which is very

cold and searching.

    He was able to travel up to London a few days

later to be present at the first meeting of the

Admiralty Committee on Warships (see p. 733).
     Lord Kelvin's medical advisers found it neces

sary that he should submit to a surgical operation,

which was performed on March 29th. For several

days there was great anxiety as to his state, and

many were the inquirers at his house who called to

see the bulletins of his medical attendants. The

King telegraphed inquiries twice. By April 5th he
was pronounced out of danger, but his recovery was
necessarily slow. In July he was able to be re
moved to the quiet of Lady Winchelsea's house at
Sleaford -- " to keep him out of temptation " to exert

himself in any way. Returning to London on July

1 8th, he wrote to his brother-in-law Mr. W. G.

Crum :--

  .... I have been greatly pressed by work which had

accumulated during my illness, including a paper on Ship-
Waves long promised for the last meeting of the R.S.E.
session which was held yesterday. This is the first use
I am making of my comparative freedom. I felt most

deeply how kind and sympathetic you all were, and I am

most happy to be able to tell you how exceeding well I

have been feeling. I have had a good deal to do in the

;!<:.                             L ·' "                  '' P-\·· KELVIN

   .-.,v·'.o·                                     -· ··, .. · tl-i* has all g·

,'t. i 1                                                              ·») ·>· -~..1ij-r,tick.              V\

:                                                 . . ^!1'. ..· ·                       -,n take

IT:- -·                . ·»                                            ! -.t.f . .,,y wicked *
,-.                                             V. - 1
                  i:· t-        *·                                                      .''11c1t last w- s

      · ·\        -.-          .                 v'                ···»·... .. -I. which we *
                   y         .:
.-:,-.                              '. . .                         TI,T··· .'n . 'c.1,.- a; :: begs:
                             ··.
.· ·- ·.. ·.                            .·                · .-. · =                                        t" IK- ·

::.·                   . '·;·· ··. · .1'- -t .                               .:· < wc1o goi'1^
.,-tU . ' ' · ·> > .· · .·
      ,                                                                      ,·· 'k                     n'v new -
                                 :
                                         }.
                                               .
                                                               ·

                                                                                                   ··'
ITU :··-. ··-.:.                                i· . -·-'· ':·:> · ·· factory.

^               '···1'- . · -:n :i.f:t tr. year ·.·\               :·                   t                         I1
                                                                                            t                         ·
    l ·'::. .·: .1 ··..:.-· K-!vi'. ^: a paper

              .

      .:.'.;· r'  Iv ;! '         ·· .'·          ;       '.'      1i' ('··r.1l-It it-utter.
                                                     ;       1
                           .
      ·u:i f:- .                                                   '.it '-rh-.'l :.1 wrote'.'
                                                          i                                             a

                             i'. . ;··-.. --
                                  l    I

                                                              N) "K1, vuU -' Avs-i

                                                                               ".-/ ··/->.

                                                          -! »· 'm'd lom; *g'' hav«
;. ·              .». v''- -v T                 2                                                       7, !
       <'
           '· i>                    ".'1 -·:      f.                                                           S
                                 " ;'1n-l
                                                       ,                                                                         .A
                             » ,,.~r
                                                                                                                              ·. t*
                  r                                       S          >'i   .            hope \t,ung
                       -,                                                             ,,f promotion
                             ;                                  .-f. 1/      i\ I
                                '.                               "'···;··=             '1^incert..
.T·l                                                      .'                      . {·                            !··.·
                              u
t:.-.
                                             1
1..
··;.              f'i\'                                   ·

                  of.11
··                     ·          . . ;···'.···                <l  :tj ··:'. ,u tell n}".                  th
    .1                    ··        I
       SI                      .
                             ·    ·             ···.. ^;'c.*i  ·! ]1   .. ·             meet whfi-i               AI<.
         !                          ·                                                                      I

      i     ·..,' .1              ·             i.ve' ''. ..:':..·:                                                      ·
                                     1
                                         .

      ,; i  »h..1l .-. :r; *.,; ,-loii ;or .· .· w davs about the
            ·,; v' . -:..>v-.
                                                          Wonl·i       .t    ···· convenient to

cv1uif ·-·! <·-. rr-t at                                              Eaton l':.-.ce, on Wed'. .
                  d                                       1
                                                            5
                                        1
   i:'- ti1l1f !)·. "2

         '.1,.j'H' (.--.LI ti-.ii,^- wo.nJ /»,· !··, hear more
C..--,M-i!,p .n*n.l«.                                     I
                                                                 scarcely 1'1.r.k                          could
                             i                              I                                              it

                                                                                                                              \.

i/esi'.-i tv^ the Xir,^ to pive son-; .·cjii'Hrnai mt-
mem1'?'.-. ,ji                      " ups wi1o were 1n -!outh Africa
         ;

                         t'

                                            <
·line but y.n1 u-.;; r1.-.l we niore s'o-'Ut it. -- Yours

[1906]

n88 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                 CHAP.

way of recovering strength, but this has all gone on well,

and I sometimes forget my walking-stick. With it I

feel pretty nearly all right, and can take fairly long

walks (not really long       had a very wicked two days'
                        !).

                          I

                                               5
and nights' attack of my No. demon last week during

our visit to Lady Winchelsea, from which we are now

returning, but      ceased as suddenly as began and
                it                                               it

                                                                                        ;

                                                                                       I

am now very hopeful that am never to be troubled
                             I

much more by that enemy. Trials were going on on

board H.M.S. Mercury last week of my new sounding

machine, which have proved very satisfactory.

    . We leave for Aix about July 28.
.
    ;.

                  it
                                                                  in
    The British Association met that year South

Africa and to Lord Kelvin sent a paper on the
equilibrium of ether in ponderable matter. He had
returned from Aix to Netherhall, and wrote thence
to Col. R. E. Crompton --
                        I
                                 :

                                    I
                                                             7,
                             NETHERHALL, LARGS, AYRSHIRE,

                                                  Oct.           1905.

DEAR CROMPTON -- should long ago have thanked

you for your letter of Sep. 8th.                  hope young Archibald

Smith will be found deserving of promotion from the

ranks of the Volunteer Corps of Engineers.

I II    am much interested in all you tell me of the corps,

and shall be very glad we can meet when am next
                        if                              it

in London to talk over its affairs.                           I

        shall be in London for few days about the begin
                             a

                               it
ning of November. Would be convenient to you to

come and see me at   I       Eaton Place, on Wedy. Nov. 4,

                          5

any time before 12?

Among other things would like to hear more of the
                     II
Coronation medals.      scarcely think could be sug

gested to the King to give some additional medals for

members of the corps    who were in South Africa                        at the
time but you will tell                                                  always
;                       me more about it. -- Yours

truly,                                                                  KELVIN.

[1906]


THE CLOSING YEARS .  1189

    With rest and careful nursing Lord Kelvin
recovered health, and was very well during the
winter of 1905-6, and through the spring of 1906.
His eyesight began, however, to trouble him : there
was a threatening of detachment of the retina. He

was able on May 17th to attend the annual dinner
of the National Telephone Company, looking quite

hale and hearty, and made a vigorous speech as a

guest. A day or two later he was the guest at the

South Africa dinner. On June 21st he spoke in
the House of Lords on the disturbance caused to

the Observatory of Greenwich by the adjacent
electric lighting station. He suggested that the

trouble from vibration might be practically annulled
by the substitution of steam turbines for reciprocat

ing engines ; but if that should not prove effective,
he trusted that both Houses of Parliament would

unite in defending the Royal Observatory from the

tremendous disaster that seemed to be impending.

On June 24th he was welcomed at a banquet given
by the Institution of Electrical Engineers to foreign

electrical engineers then visiting England, and who

were entertained in Glasgow on July 2nd. At a
luncheon given to the visitors in that city, Lord
Kelvin declared that electricity was a peace-maker

for the whole world. Its present development would

have seemed like a dream to the early pioneers ;
but there was another dream which he hoped would
be realized -- universal peace, universal alliance
among the nations all over the world. Lord Kelvin

had been elected on June 26 president of the

1 1 90  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

International Electrotechnical Commission for the

unification of technical terms and formulae.
    An important controversy l about radium arose

after the British Association meeting in August.
    On August 5 Lord Kelvin wrote to The Times

from Aix-les- Bains, to raise a warning against hasty

generalization as to the transmutation of elements
which had been suggested at the meeting at York
as a deduction from the discovery by Sir W.
Ramsay and Professor Soddy of the production of
helium from radium. He also protested against
the hypothesis that the heat of the sun or of the

earth is due to radium ; he held that it is mainly

due to gravitation. To this Sir Oliver Lodge

replied, regretting that physicists had been unable

to carry their veteran leader with them in some

recent developments, and the Hon. R. J. Strutt

wrote to ask what becomes of the heat generated

by the radium admitted to be present in the earth.

Lord Kelvin, in The Times of August 20, rejoined

that he thought he had spent more hours than any
other person in reading Rutherford's Radio-activity.

He contended that there was no valid experimental
evidence to show that the heat of radium was

sufficient to account for sun-heat or underground
temperature. Several further letters appeared, in

cluding one from Professor Soddy, emphasizing the
points of agreement with Lord Kelvin, and review

    1 For an extended summary of this controversy see Nature, Ixxiv. p.
539, September 20, 1906. Lord Kelvin's last contribution to the radium

question was his paper in the Philosophical Magazine of March 1907, "An

Attempt to explain the Radio-activity of Radium."

xxvi  THE CLOSING YEARS  1191

ing the evidence for the statement that radium is

continually generating helium.
    Another controversy arose a little later concern

ing the international agreement as to wireless
telegraphy, for which the Marconi Company was
claiming a monopoly. Lord Kelvin interposed with
a letter in The Times of October 16, describing
how in June 1898 he had been taken by Lord
Tennyson to the Marconi Station at Alum Bay,
whence he had had the pleasure of sending messages
through 15 miles of ether, and on by postal land
telegraphs to Sir George Stokes and others. He
believed that up to that time, or about then, " there

had been no other practical advance upon Lodge's

wireless telegraphy through one hundred and fifty

yards in 1894."

    An interesting ceremony, which linked together
the names of Faraday and Kelvin, took place at
Barnsbury on November 24, 1906, when Lord
Kelvin unveiled a memorial tablet to Faraday in
the room where Faraday, as an elder of the Sande-

manian Church, used at times to preach, and which
had now been transformed into a switchroom of

the National Telephone Company. Lord Kelvin's
words on this occasion were spoken with great

emotion.

    It is indeed a crowning privilege of my life to assist to-day in
the inauguration of this monument to Faraday. Sixty-six years
ago his was the inspiring influence of my early love for electricity.

I did not then know him except in his published scientific papers.
Ten years later I heard him lecture in the Royal Institution, and

1 1 92             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                                                                            CHAP.

I had the great honour of making his personal acquaintance.

For many years after 1850 my chief attraction for making a
journey from       GslaeesgoFwaratdoaLyo--ndaot nhowmase                                                        a visit           Royal
Institution to                                            always                                                 midst   to the   work.
                                                           in the
                                                                                                                          of his

Bright, lively, kind, he showed me what he was doing. He

                   it,
spoke to me of and he encouraged me to go on with any work

I  could take up, either in connection with electricity or any of

the other interesting and important things in physical science in
which he was working and making discoveries. His encourage

ment to me was most valuable.                  treasure                                                         now, and can
                                            1                                                                            I

                                                  I

                                                                         it
look back upon as an inspiring influence throughout my life,
Faraday had the gift of inspiration. . . . To-day we have inis
                     it
augurated memorial tablet to Faraday, and here in the build
        a

ing in  --whsiicmh onumepntlaucmedit we may    cwirceullmrseppiceeat--thwehiccehleabrreatiendscrLibaetidn
words                               requiris,

in St. Paul's Cathedral over the tomb of Sir Christopher Wren.

Look around. In the place itself you will see monument of
                                            a
                                                                      a

                                                                                     a
Faraday. These walls tell story, not of magnificent cathedral,

but of the humble meeting - house of earnest Christian men.

Here were carried on the religious services of the Sandemanians                                                                   *

in London,  a      very simple association devoted to faithful and

...earnest Christian work. Throughout his life Faraday adhered
faithfully to this denomination as an officiating elder.                                                                 it I     well

remember, at meetings of the British Association in Aberdeen                                                                  is

and Glasgow, how he sought out the meetings of his denomina

tion, and spent, as preacher or worshipper there, the Sunday
      is
          a

                                     a

                                it
                                        is
and any time he could spare from the work of the Association.

How very interesting                        to think of Faraday's life-long faithful

ness to his religious denomination. In another sense                                                                              of

very great interest to us to look around in this place and see the

busy telephone operators doing their daily work in it. This

also        splendid monument to Faraday. Every electrician

present, and all who are engaged in the telephonic business, will

heartily agree with me in admiring and wondering at this beautiful

and useful result of the vast discoveries in electromagnetism in

which Faraday led the way. How much Faraday would have

been delighted with the telephone some of us can imagine.

How much, too, would he have delighted in the applications of

electricity to the transmission of power .
It

      *1
                               a
                                                                                                !
                                                                                                         .
                                                                                                             .
      The tablet,  large inscribed bronze plate, was subscribed for by the

staff of the National Telephone Company, with whom the project of the

memorial originated.

      A small sect which separated from the Scottish Presbyterian Church

about 1730, and established in London about 1760 by Robert Sandeman.

   has now practically died out.

xxvi               THE CLOSING YEARS                                                         1193

    In conclusion Lord Kelvin said he would ever remember the
kindliness of Faraday, and his fertilizing influence throughout the

scientific world, and the encouragements which he extended to

any attempt to apply mathematical demonstration to the prob
lems of science, which were the subjects of his daily work so

long as health and life allowed him.

    Lady Kelvin wrote to Miss King, saying, " Your

uncle was the only person present who had ever
seen Faraday, except some of Faraday's own family ;
and he made his little speech on his personal recol

lections. It was all quite a success."

    He went down to Glasgow the next day to
preside at a dinner of the Glasgow branch ' of
the Institution of Electrical Engineers, and to
attend a Liberal Unionist meeting. He was back

in London for the Royal Society anniversary on

November 30.
    On December 4, 1906, speaking in the House

of Lords on the Trades Disputes Bill, Lord Kelvin
asked the House to reject the Bill in the interests
of those workmen who would lose their liberty if it
passed, as it afforded no redress against a wrongful

act committed by a trades union against a non-

unionist. He had attended all the sittings of the
House of Lords from October 24 to the end of

1 At this dinner Lord Kelvin gave a long speech on the growth of

electrical engineering, with reminiscences of Sir William Siemens, from

whom   he had in   1881    obtained a                 shun"t-Hweounbdelievdeydnamthoa,t  to be driven by a
Clerk  gas engine  in his   laboratory.                                                  the first house on

this planet in which the whole lighting was done by electricity was his house

in the University of Glasgow, getting the current from that Siemens' dynamo,
and the Clerk gas engine of which he had spoken. In that house the rule

given to     thweasw, or'kGmoenth(rfoour ghmaktinhge  what   began soon after to be called    in
stallation)                                           whole    house : wherever there is a   gas

burner put in an electric light.' There were 106 gas burners ; and there were

106 electric lights in that house about the end of the year 1881."
VOL. II
                                                                                         2R

1 194  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN    CHAP.

the Committee and Report stages of the abortive
Education Bill of that year.

    The year 1907 found Lord Kelvin in fairly good
health, and very active in mind. Christmas and

the New Year had been spent at Netherhall ; but
Lord and Lady Kelvin came up to Glasgow on

January 10 for the installation of Mr. .Asquith as

Lord Rector. Facial neuralgia had troubled him a

little. Hardly had they returned to Netherhall

before they heard of the death of Principal Story,

whose funeral Lord Kelvin attended, as Chancellor,

on the 1 6th. In the afternoon he spoke at a

Women's Unionist Association meeting. The same

afternoon they went off to Edinburgh, where Lord

Kelvin presided at a dinner of the Royal Society of

Edinburgh to the Prince of Monaco, the Oceano-

grapher. He attended the anniversary James Watt
dinner in Greenock on January 18, and spoke of

the water-supply of Glasgow and its influence on

public health. On the 2ist he was in Edinburgh

communicating to the Royal Society of Edinburgh

two papers , one of which related to the motion of

the earth through the ether.  He sent a report of

this to Lord Rayleigh :--

                                                                   NETHERHALL, LARGS,

                                                                Jan. 23, 1907.

    DEAR RAYLEIGH -- Many thanks for your postcard.
FitzGerald is very interesting and is clearly right. He

suggested the electromagnetic idea, and in suggesting it
proved that it was essentially nugatory. You will see by

the last inch of the enclosed press-cutting, that I spoke

xxvi  THE CLOSING YEARS            1195

of the subject at the R.S.E. on Monday evening. I

referred to Michelson's celebrated experiment, seeming to

prove that the relative motion between the earth and the

ether at its surface could not be anything nearly as much

as thirty kilometres per second. I referred very shortly

to my proposed experiment with two insulated cylinders,

and an uninsulated cylinder midway between them, to serve

as an electrostatic screen, which I did not mention, perhaps

I had not thought of it when I wrote to you and Silvanus

Thompson a fortnight ago. The opposite electrifications
induced on the two sides of it give an electromagnetic

effect exactly equal and opposite to the electromagnetic
effects of the two insulated cylinders. This is a fairly
good illustration of the essential nugatoriness of the
electromagnetic test, demonstrated by FitzGerald ; and is

somewhat interesting as showing a fixed electrostatic and
electromagnetic screen instead of FitzGerald's movable
one, which is the surface of the steel testing-needle.

     The newspaper reports naturally reported only the
wail of grief with which I ended my " paper."

     Michelson's experiment is virtually a test for inequality
in the velocity of light relatively to the earth, in the two

opposite directions parallel to the tangent to the earth's

orbit at any time. It might be imagined that Fizeau's

method of measuring the velocity of light, in virtue of
its greatly longer testing distance, might be more search

ing than Michelson's. But in reality Michelson's, with

its comparatively short distance, is vastly more searching
than the other, because of the vastly more delicate optical

tteosott,hewdhicwhheehli.s--inYtoeurfresretnrtuilayl, method gives, than Fizeau's

                                                                       KELVIN.

The Institution of Electrical Engineers desired

to elect Lord Kelvin for the third time as its

President, and entrusted Mr. W. M. Mordey with the

duty of conveying the invitation.  Lord Kelvin at

first declined the proposal :--

1 1 96  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                  CHAP.

                                                          NETHERHALL, Feb. 1, 1907.

    DEAR MR. MORDEY. -- I cannot tell you how much

touched I am by your kindness, and the kindness of the
Council of which you tell me in your yesterday's letter.
After most mature thought, and daily experience of daily
inevitable cares, I feel that it would be impossible for me
to accept the honour of being President of the Institution,
without neglecting arrears of work which I have promised
from time to time during the last fil'ty years, and which I

am now trying to get on with every day, with most
disappointing experience of the smallness of the time
that I find possibly available for doing so. Will you tell
the Council how very sorry I am that I must deny
myself the pleasure of being again President, and give
my most cordial thanks to all for the great kindness with

which they entertained your suggestion.

      I am very sorry to hear that you have been laid up

with influenza, but I hope you are now feeling perfectly

well again.-- Believe me, yours most truly,

                                                                      KELVIN.

    After further correspondence, and an assurance

from the Council that everything possible would be
done to lighten the cares of the office, he assented.
The formal election took place in May.

    Lord Kelvin invited Lord Rosebery to come
to the Institution of Civil Engineers on the occa
sion of the reading of a paper on Modern Motor
Vehicles by Col. R. E. Crompton. His reply was: --

                                 DALMENY HOUSE, EDINBURGH,

                                                                     Feb. 4, 1907.

MY DEAR LORD KELVIN. -- I regard you as one of

the glories of Scotland and your wishes as commands.

Consequently, I am   gdoo.in--g   to the   Civil Engineers,  which  I
had not intended to              Yours    sincerely,

                                                             R.

xxvi  THE CLOSING YEARS  1197

   On March 7 Lord Kelvin took part -- it was
for the last time --in a discussion at the Institution

of Electrical Engineers on a paper by Mr. J. S.

Highfield on the Electric Transmission of Energy

by Direct Current on the Series System. The

following are the principal points of Lord Kelvin's
speech :--

    For myself the subject is one of extreme interest I have

never swerved from the opinion that the right system for long
distance transmission of power by electricity is the direct-current

system. I do not say a word in depreciation of the beauty of the

polyphase idea, and of the development of that idea in the three-

phase working.
     Some of the most subtle problems of electricity, problems

depending even on resonance, are more or less familiar to all
electrical engineers at the present time. The perfect freedom
of the direct-current system from complications of that kind is
very remarkable.

    You all understand something about square root of 2 being i -41.

Starting with that scientific fact, we have this practical application
that 141 volts of direct current have no more tendency to produce
sparks than i oo volts of alternating current. . . . Mr. Highfield
finds, in respect to insulation, a much greater advantage of the
direct current over the alternating current than has been hitherto

known to us. I think I may safely say, as proved by the experi

ments which he has put before us, that 80,000 volts direct current
are more easily worked than 40,000 volts alternating current.

    I do not go so far as to say that the beautiful systems that are

now worked out for distributing power over somewhat long
distances would be better carried out by direct current than by

alternating current. I do think, however, with regard to the

ordinary power-supply stations, which are now with but few
exceptions founded on the alternating-current system, it is just
possible that, in future, there may be a change to direct-current.

    Calling on Lord Kelvin at 15 Eaton Place on
March 21, I was struck with his altered appearance.
He looked feebler. He seemed bent, more lame
than usual, and deafer. He told me that his sight

1 198  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

was troubling him : something the matter with the

central part of the retina of the left eye--all looked
black --so that he saw things with the right eye
only. He had been told, he said, that the trouble

would not extend by sympathy to the other eye.
" But I suppose it is Anno Domini," he added,

rather sadly. He was busy, when I called, working
at the compass corrector with his secretary Mr.

George Green.
    Lord Kelvin attended the anniversary dinner of

the Chemical Society on March 22nd, and delivered
a lively speech in reply to the toast of the Scientific
Societies. He gently rallied the chemists on the
difficulty of talking about the newly discovered
phenomena of atomic disintegration. They had
better not call " atom " a thing that could be broken.
When was an atom not an atom ? he asked. He

had recently, when revisiting his old laboratory at
the College de France, burned his fingers with phos
phorus ; for so old a person as himself a more

appropriate day, he said, would have been the first

of April !
     At this period also he was much exercised in

mind about the proposals of the Irish University
Commission Bill. He strongly advocated that
Trinity College, Dublin, should retain its entire

 independence.

     On April 1 1 Lord Kelvin dined at the Consti
tutional Club to support Mr. Bonar Law, and made
a vigorous speech in favour of Imperial reciprocity.
On the 23rd he was presiding as Chancellor at the

XXVI  THE CLOSING YEARS  1199

conferment of honorary degrees on the Prince and

Princess of Wales in Glasgow.
    He took the chair at the Royal Institution on

May 28 for Professor Fleming's lecture on Wireless
Telegraphy. It was a brilliant lecture, but Lord
Kelvin seemed too weary to follow it with his usual

keen interest. On June 19 was the annual conver
sazione of the Electrical Engineers at the Natural
History Museum. Lord Kelvin came late in the

evening ; and his aged appearance was a matter

of wide comment and regret. Five days later he

spoke briefly, but vigorously, in the House of Lords
on the insufficiency of existing laws to protect

seamen in the merchant service from the dangers

of deck loads.
    He wrote to Lord Rayleigh :--

      15  EATON PLACE, S.W.,

           July 15, 1907.

    DEAR RAYLEIGH. -- § i. Do not write either a letter or

a postcard in answer to this, but return the enclosed copy,

with answers, or remarks, or nothing, written on the

margin.
     § 2. Are you to be at Leicester at the B.A.? We are

going, to remain from Wednesday till Saturday, and are

to be guests of a Mr. Everard who lives about five miles

away, but promises carriages or motors for everything we
want. We shall not choose motor unless of necessity.

We leave London for Aix-les-Bains on the 2nd or jrd

of August.

    § 3. I am designing a short communication to the B.A.,
showing numerous periods and corresponding spectrum
lines in a glowing monatomic gas, even if there is only

one electrion in each atom ; but much more numerous

bright lines, or possibly hazy ones, if each atom has two

1200                       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN            CHAP.

or more electrions as its neutralizing quantum. You will

save me much trouble if you will tell me something about

the spectrums of argon and helium.

    § 4. It is possible that a diatomic gas such as hydrogen,
may have some lines due to mutual vibration between its

two atoms, or rotation of the lines joining their centres.

But it seems to me more probable that all the bright lines

of gases are due to vibrations of electrions.

   § 5. If we call by the name electron the ponderable

atom deprived of all its electrions, the general statement

(given first by Lorentz of Leyden) that the bright lines

are due to vibrations of electrons would include ponder

able atoms among the vibrators. But it seems to me

more probable that it is only the equal and similar

electrions that are the constituents of the vibrators, and
that the enormously more passive " positive electrons " are

not practically concerned in the vibrations, except as
infinitely massive stands or supports. I am, however,
                                                          that the " positive
eqlueictetrornesad"y   to  be convinced, if it  is true,  dynamics of light
                      are                       in the
                           practical vibrators

and radiant heat.

    § 6. It is possible (probable?) that part of the light and
radiant heat of a monatomic gas may be Stokesian, due

to non-vibratory collisions between pairs of atoms giving

shocks to the ether, superimposed upon the trains of
vibratory waves due to the electrions. Even if there were

no electrions, we could, as you have shown, produce

periodic light from the merely Stokesian light by a grating

or by a prism.

    At the British Association meeting at Leicester,
on July 31, Lord Kelvin surprised his friends by the

renewed vigour and activity which he displayed.
In a neat little speech, when proposing a vote of
thanks to the President Sir David Gill, he declared

his delight in having been personally conducted on

a magic tour through the universe, carried not on

THE CLOSING YEARS  1201

aeroplanes that would not fly, but on the stronger

and surer wings of the scientific imagination. The
next day Lord Kelvin read a paper on the motions
of ether produced by collisions of atoms or molecules
containing or not-containing electrions. He insisted
strongly on the indivisibility of the atom of matter,
whether it contained an atom of electricity or not.
He laid down a number of dynamical propositions

as to the atom, and its power to originate pulses in

the ether when suddenly started or suddenly stopped.

He inferred from the multiple bright line spectra
of the monatomic gases that either the atom con

tained one electrion with many possible positions
of stable equilibrium, or many electrions with one

stable position for only one of them, or, thirdly, that

there were many electrions with many stable positions
for one of them. On August 2 one of the most
instructive discussions ever known in the Association,

upon the Constitution of the Atom, was opened by-
Professor Rutherford ; the very title being a challenge
to Lord Kelvin, who held that an atom as such could

not have a constitution, but was an indivisible unit.
After Sir Oliver Lodge, Sir William Ramsay,

Professor Soddy, and Professor (now Sir Joseph)
Larmor had spoken, Lord Kelvin took up the
argument with all the keenness of a young debater.

     He could not believe that the mere motion of electrions gave
the widely different properties and degrees of stability which are
recognised as belonging to the different kinds of matter called
elements. Nor could he believe that radio-activity was a mere
residue of the kinetic energy of the atom. He preferred rather
to regard the atom as a gun loaded with a shell which again
contained a charge ; for when the atom threw off an electrion it

1202       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                  CHAP.

did   not   cause the bursting of the atom any   more than the  --firhinagd
of   the   gun effected its destruction. His
                                                gun --the atom

probably been loaded before there were sun, stars, or any of the

things that we now know, and it only required contact with

matter to release the trigger and fire off the shell.

     From Leicester, Lord and Lady Kelvin went

straight to Aix-les- Bains for the usual month of rest

and cure. Lady Kelvin wrote from the Hotel
Britannique on Sept. 5, that they would leave Aix

on the 11th, reaching London on the 12th, and

going on to Netherhall on the 14th. Lord Kelvin

was due in Belfast on 2Oth to open the new

laboratories of Queen's College.
    Lady Kelvin, who had not been really well in

the preceding months, found the journey to Scotland

very trying, and on arriving at Netherhall she

collapsed. In a few hours there came on a diffi

culty of speech and other symptoms. Complete

rest was ordered her, and Lord Kelvin's engagement

at Belfast was cancelled, to his intense disappoint

ment. His address was, in his absence, read by

his nephew James Thomson, of Newcastle-on-
Tyne. In it he spoke of the opening of seven

laboratories in one day as unique in University

history. He also spoke of the benefactors of the

University, of the uses of laboratories, of the dis

coveries to be made in them, and of his own

recollections of the old Belfast Royal Academical

Institution. He had written on the previous day
"Ito his nephew :
                   am very glad that it has

been arranged that you are to read my Address
to-morrow. You will see that my statement that

xxvi         THE CLOSING YEARS                                                  1203

the Laboratories are open ' to-day ' does not imply

that the Opening Ceremony has been performed
by myself. I wrote the whole Address carefully in
the knowledge that I should not be present, but
I expressed it in words as if I was personally
addressing an audience. In the circumstances you
must be regarded as absolutely representing me
in all respects, except the actual opening of the
Laboratories with a golden key, which Principal
Hamilton told me had been prepared for the
occasion." The Address was duly read, and the
golden key brought back to Lord Kelvin at
Netherhall.

     Lady Kelvin's state remained critical for many

days.

    Lord Kelvin wrote to Sir George Darwin :--

                                  NETHERHALL, LARGS,

      DEAR  DARWIN -- Thank  you       Sept. 23, 1907.

                                  very much for sending

me the proof of your preface. I am much gratified that

you are able to say what you say of me in it. I am glad
you are publishing separately your papers, and I hope

vol. ii      will soon follow.

      Lady Kelvin's illness is very serious.                                    It came on

Sunday evg- the 1 5th.       Since then there has been

progress toward recovery, tho" very slow. Since yester

day symptoms have been more favourable than any time

before, and I am allowed to hope for continued progress

to complete recovery. She would join me in love to you

and Maud     ; but the most       abfosroluptreogreqsusi.et--                   and rest is
enjoined as  the first requisite                                                Yours very

truly,                                                                          KELVIN.

      He wrote also to Madame Mascart, whose
                  for some months --
husband had been  ill

                                                                             :

1204  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                           CHAP.

                                     NETHERHALL, LARGS,

                                                                       October 3, 1907.

DEAR MADAME MASCART -- Lady Kelvin has been

seriously ill since the I5th September. There has been
some progress towards recovery, and some favourable

symptoms during the last three days which have cheered

me, but I am still in terrible anxiety. During her illness

she has spoken of Mr. Mascart, feeling much concerned
for you in your anxiety. Will you kindly tell me or ask

Louise to tell me of his present condition ? I earnestly

hope you will be able to give a favourable report.

With our kindest regards to him, and Louise, and your

self, I remain, yours always truly,  KELVIN.

    He was himself unwell, suffering from indigestion
and borne down by anxiety. His sadness was quite

pathetic, he seemed unable to grasp the new con

ditions. A week later Lady Kelvin's symptoms

showed distinct improvement, and she was regain

ing power. Lord Kelvin was himself better, and
went up to Glasgow on October roth for the day.
He wrote again to Madame Mascart :--

                                     NETHERHALL, LARGS,

DEAR  MME.  --MASCART                   October 13, 1907.

                       I thank you warmly for

your most kind letter, and the sympathy with me of your

self and your husband which you express.

    Lady Kelvin was very well at Aix les Bains, and felt

that she was getting much benefit from the treatment

there. On our arrival here on the evening of September

14 she was feeling very unwell, though she had felt

perfectly well on our journey from Aix as far as Dover,

and only began to feel ill on our railway journey to

London where we remained a day. On the evening of

Sept. 1 5 there came a terrible stroke, which has produced
a loss of power. . . . Within the last seven days there

has been a gradual, but very slow progress of recovery.

xxvi       THE CLOSING YEARS                                  1205

           It

                is
                                                                   is,

                                                                       it

                                                                   I
. . . She knows well what her illness                  and hopes for

recovery.  wonderful and most touching to see the

cheerfulness with which she bears the calamity.                            am

allowed to be hopeful of a good recovery, but must be

very slow. To-day the doctor finds more of improvement

since yesterday than on any previous day.

      Absolute tranquillity has been ordered. Till to-day                  ;I

have not been able to give her the kind message from

you and Mr. Mascart, but have given to her to-day
                         I

                                               ;

                                                  it
and she was pleased and grateful and she joined me in

affectionate regards to you and him, and to Louise, and in

best wishes for his recovery of health.                am glad you
           is
              is
                                                    I

                                             I
can tell me that he now better, and earnestly hope to

hear soon that he making good progress, and will soon

be feeling really well.

      Will you tell Louise that hope to write to her in                    a
                         I

few days, and give her good and better reports of Lady

Kelvin. -- Believe me, affectionately yours,

                                                       KELVIN.

   The weeks dragged on with little change.
Lord Kelvin was allowed occasionally to visit the

bedside of the sufferer any slight improvement
           it,

                  if

                              it
                                                            ;
                                                I
                                                             I:
                                                                            8, 8
                                                                                 I
seemed to buoy up his happiness, but he fretted at

any symptom of relapse. The weather was cold

and stormy, and he could not leave the house

except for short walks. On November                    he wrote
to President Hamilton of Belfast --

                            NETHERHALL, LARGS,

                                         Nov.          1907.
      DEAR PRESIDENT HAMILTON -- am very glad to

hear by your letter of yesterday that you strongly

approve of the suggestion which urged in my Address

of September 20, that Queen's College, Belfast, should be
made an independent National University. The more

think of the more seems to me likely to gain general

approval, and, adopted, to be very beneficial, not only

1206          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                            CHAP.

to Belfast, but to the whole of Ireland, and far beyond

the limits of Ireland.

I remember strongly urging that Owens College,

Manchester, should be made an independent University,

and that Liverpool and Birmingham should as speedily as

possible get Universities of their own ; and pointing out

that Scotland, a much smaller part of the United

Kingdom than England, had four Universities, and not

one too many for the good of its people, while England

had only two. I remember the Times saying that Sir

William Thomson was so fond of universities that he
thought there could not be too many of them. At that

time the tide was too strongly against me, and for a

federal University ; and Victoria University was founded.

We know what the result is now.

To make Belfast an independent University now

without delay would not hurt either the Royal Uni

versity or Trinity College. Politically I believe it would

be really popular, both among Nationalists and Unionists,

and it could not possibly have any evil political influence

of any kind.

Cork and Galway, it seems to me, might be made

independent Universities with great advantage.               They
both I believe, have done really good work, and I owe a

deep debt to Galway for being now in the excellent health

in which I am, through the action of Mr. Frere, a thorough

Irishman who had his medical education wholly and

solely (I believe) in Galway. I cannot but think that the
Roman Catholic difficulty might be satisfactorily got over

somehow in Cork and Galway, if created independent

Universities. But, feeling hearty good wishes for Ireland,

and for all denominations of its people, I am afraid I am

getting   out of  lemttyer.d--eptYhouarnsd    must  not tax  your patience
with a   longer                             truly,             KELVIN.

    The Institution of Electrical Engineers was to

open its session on November i4th. Any Presi
dential Address from Lord Kelvin was out of the

xxvi    THE CLOSING YEARS                                                   1207

question, but he wrote on November gth to Dr. R.

T. Glazebrook, the retiring President :--

                              NETHERHALL, LARGS,

                                                                             November 9, 1907.

      DEAR GLAZEBROOK -- I wish I could be with you and

our comrades of the Electrical Engineers on the I4th.
Will you tell them how very sorry I am not to be present

at the opening meeting of the Session. The work of

Electrical Engineers throughout the world has grown

marvellously from year to year, not only in practical

importance, but also in profound scientific interest.

From the time, in the middle of the nineteenth century,

when their profession had its beginning with the electric

telegraph over land and under sea, workers of all grades

of Electrical Engineering have kept closely in touch with

purely scientific investigation, which has indeed been

largely advanced by their labours. The work of the

present Session of the Institution will surely be carried

out on the lines which have made its meetings so in

teresting and valuable ever since 1871, when it came into

existence as the Society of Telegraph Engineers. Give

the members of the Institution my best wishes for all

their work, both in the Institution and in carrying out

its practical objects, and tell them that I hope to be with

them before the end of the present Session, and that in

the meantime I    thank them  twheairrmlPyrefsoidr etnhte. i--r gYroeuarts  kind
                   me to be                                                  very
ness in allowing

truly,                        KELVIN.

    Then he wrote Madame Monnier, daughter of

M. Mascart :--

                                                                  NETHERHALL, LARGS,
                                                                             November 21, 1907.

    MY DEAR LOUISE -- It has been a great kindness to

me your writing these last postcards and letters. I am
very glad to hear by your letter of Nov. 18 that your

father has been making such good progress, and that he

is happy to be at home again, and that the doctors are

1208             LIFE OF LORD KELVIN                                     CHAP.

much pleased by the quickness of his recovery. I hope

your mother is now feeling quite rested again after the

great fatigue and anxiety which she has had.
     I am sending you by book post copies of two little

papers on Atoms and Radium and Ether, which you might
take to your father if you think that to turn over some
of the pages of them might amuse him. But if you
don't think he would care to see them, or if you think it

might fatigue him for a moment, put them into the fire

or the waste-paper basket.

    I was glad to be able to tell Lady Kelvin to-day that

I had a letter from you telling me that your father is

much better. She would certainly join me in affectionate

messages to your father and mother and yourself.

     I hope your children   are  wqeulliteyoruercsoevlfe.r--ed     from   the
influenza, and that you    are                                  Yours    ever

affectionately,

    Lord Kelvin felt acutely the anxious state of
Lady Kelvin's health ; but he never lost faith in
her ultimate recovery, and resolutely set himself

to his usual labours. Save for a passing cold he
was very well, and until the middle of November
he was able, not only to work at experiments, but
to walk in his garden and take drives in the

neighbourhood.

    The season was very inclement ; and he caught
a chill, which on November 23 resulted in his
being confined to bed with a severe attack of sick

ness, followed by other symptoms which happily
passed away. Though he seemed better four days
later, and even wrote a letter or two, he became

rapidly worse again ; and being unable to take

much sustenance his strength began to fail. After

xxv1     THE CLOSING YEARS      1209

wards symptoms of septic fever developed, under
which he sank. On December 14th Lady Kelvin
was able to visit his bedside, and subsequently

two or three times, and he was able to greet her.
On the evening of the lyth he passed peacefully

away, at 10.15 p.m., in the presence of his
physician, Dr. Sime, his nephews James Thomson
Bottomley and James Thomson, and their wives,
also his nephew Walter Ewing Crum ; several of

his faithful servants being also with him when he

breathed his last.

      By the universal expressions evoked by the

news of Lord Kelvin's death, it became evident

that the nation desired for him the homage of

burial in Westminster Abbey. The funeral was

fixed for Monday, December 23, at noon. A

Memorial Service had been held on Sunday in

the Bute Hall of the University of Glasgow. The

coffin containing the remains had been removed

quietly to St. Faith's Chapel in the Abbey. The

spot selected for the grave was in the nave, next to

the grave of Sir Isaac Newton. The funeral brought

together one of the most wonderful congregations

that has ever assembled in that historic building.

The Royal Society was represented by all its

principal officers. Glasgow sent twelve of the

Professors of the University and the Lord Provost

of the city. Cambridge was represented by the

Vice-Chancellor, the Master of Trinity, Professors

Sir George Darwin, Joseph Larmor, J. J. Thomson,
VOL. II
                            2S

1 2 1o  LIFE OF LORD KELVIN  CHAP.

and others ; Oxford by its Vice-Chancellor and
Professors Osier and Miers. Nearly every British

University was represented, and various foreign

Universities and Academies, and innumerable
scientific and learned Societies at home. The
Lord Mayor of London and the Lord Provost of
Edinburgh were present. The King was repre
sented by the Duke of Argyll, and the Prince of
Wales by Sir Arthur Bigge. The Princess Louise,
Duchess of Argyll, attended in person. The twelve
pall-bearers were : Lord Rayleigh, President of the
Royal Society ; Mr. John Morley, Secretary of
State for India; Sir Archibald Geikie, President
of the Geological Society ; Professor A. Crum
Brown, of the Royal Society of Edinburgh ; the
Master of Peterhouse ; Sir John Wolfe -Barry of
the Institution of Civil Engineers ; Sir Edward H.
Seymour, Admiral of the Fleet ; M. Gaston
Darboux, Perpetual Secretary of the Academic
des Sciences ; Lord Strathcona, High Commissioner
for Canada ; Sir George Darwin, of the University
of Cambridge ; Dr. Donald M'Alister, Principal of

Glasgow University ; and Dr. R. T. Glazebrook, of

the Institution of Electrical Engineers.
    An unusually dreary December day added its

darkness to the gloom. While the choir, unaccom
panied, sang the verses of the hymn " Brief life is

here our portion," the procession slowly moved from

the little chapel, around the cloisters to the western

end of the nave ; and as it passed up the body of
the cathedral, the effect on the vast assembly was

xxvi  THE CLOSING YEARS  1211

most impressive. After the choir and the collegiate
body of clergy came the Dean and Sub- Dean,
followed by the coffin, the immediate mourners, and

the delegates already enumerated. On the entrance
of the body within the walls of the church, the
voice of the Dean was heard beginning the Office
for the Burial of the Dead : " I am the Resurrection
and the Life." The choir took up the processional
singing of these burial sentences in the music
composed by Croft ; and in the long minutes while
the figures of the sad procession slowly filed into
their places in the stalls, the organ played the
marvellously beautiful funeral music of Purcell. The

coffin rested immediately beneath the lantern ; and

the overhead darkness rendered more striking the

lights that fell upon the scene from flickering
candles and scattered lamps. Psalm xc., sung to
Purcell's chant, was followed by the Lesson read
by the Dean from the steps of the Sacrarium.
The anthem was Sebastian Wesley's matchless
" He will swallow up Death in Victory." Then
the procession was re-formed, and the body,
followed by the mourners, was borne down the

choir, out into the nave, where the committal

portion of the service was completed ; and Goss's
anthem " I heard a Voice from Heaven " was sung.
After the concluding prayers, the whole congrega
tion, with deepest feeling, sang " O God, our Help
in Ages past" Once more they knelt while the
Dean pronounced the Benediction ; and then Sir
Frederick Bridge played Handel's Dead March

12 1 2          LIFE OF LORD KELVIN        CHAP.

from the oratorio " Saul," while the clergy moved

off in procession, and the assembly dispersed.

   A simple flat slab marks Lord Kelvin's last

resting-place.

                    WILLIAM THOMSON

                LORD KELVIN

                                1824-1907

    For once, in the universal tribute rendered to
the memory of Lord Kelvin, there seemed to be

some revival of recognition of what the nation
owes to science and to her great men. That which
impressed Voltaire nearly two hundred years ago
at the funeral of Newton was the public recogni
tion which the England of that day accorded to the
great representative of science. To-day the man
of action looms larger in the world than the man of

thought ; and mankind which worships success is
apt to heed little the thought and toil without which

success is not achieved. In an age which has

been pre-eminent over all that ever went before
for the advances of science, the fashion of

glorifying the warrior and the orator seems a
grotesque anachronism. Mr. Gladstone's dictum,
" that the present is by no means an age abounding
in minds of the first order," did but reveal that he

xxvi       THE CLOSING YEARS                              1213

too shared the general blindness. The fact is that
there never was an age so rich in minds of the first
order in science. The nineteenth century has,
intellectually, been the golden age, not of art or of
poetry, not of drama or of adventure, but of science.
It has been an epoch distinguished by a galaxy of

men who made it great, and who, whether the

world recognizes it or not, were great men. Though
Lord Kelvin was not the last of these, he was
assuredly the greatest ; and his name will be revered

and his memory cherished long after those who

sat at his feet and listened to his voice shall have

passed away. His words, his thoughts remain.
And not his thoughts only ; for though he was
essentially a man of thought, he was also a man of
effort to whom came the high privilege of achieve
ment. That laborious humility for which he was

conspicuous, that unceasing activity which drove him,
as by an internal fire, from success to success, mark
him as a man of purpose. In an age that threatens,

now to fester into luxury, now to swell into the
degenerate lust of bigness, now to drivel into sport,
such a strenuous career as his, and such high ideals

of intellectual endeavour as illuminated his whole

life, are possessions not lightly to be lost.

      To know, to do, and on the tide of time

      Not to drift idly like the cockle-sailor,

      Whose pearly shallop dances on the blue,

      Fanned by soft airs and basking in brief sun :

      But  to steer onward to some purposed haven,    --
      And   make new waves with motion of our own,

      That is to live.


                    APPENDIX A

LIST OF DISTINCTIONS, ACADEMIC AND OTHER, OF THE RIGHT
                 HONOURABLE LORD KELVIN, O.M., ETC.

                                          UNIVERSITIES

Bachelor of Arts, Cambridge University, 1845.
Master of Arts, Cambridge University, 1 848.
Fellow of St. Peter's College, Cambridge, 1846-1852 ; re-elected

        for life, as Fellow, 1872.
Honorary Doctor of Laws, Dublin University, 1857.
Honorary Doctor of Civil Law, Oxford University, 1866.
Honorary Doctor of Laws, Cambridge University, 1866.
Honorary Doctor of Laws, Edinburgh University, 1869.
Honorary Doctor of Physical Science, Universitas Studiorum

        Ticinensis, 1878.

Honorary Doctor of Laws, M'Gill University, Montreal, 1884.
Honorary Doctor of Medicine, Heidelberg University, 1886.
Honorary Doctor of Laws, Columbia University, New York,

          1887.

Honorary Doctor of Philosophy, Bologna University, 1 888.
Honorary Doctor of Natural Philosophy, Padua University, 1892.
Honorary Doctor of Science, Victoria University, Manchester,

          1895.

Honorary Doctor of Laws, Glasgow University, 1896.
Honorary Doctor of Laws, Princeton University, New Jersey,

          1896.
Honorary Doctor of Philosophy, Royal Hungarian University,

        Budapest, 1896.
Honorary Doctor of Laws, Toronto University, 1897.
Honorary Doctor of Civil Law, Trinity College, Toronto, 1897.
Honorary Doctor of Mathematics, Christiania University, 1902.
Honorary Doctor of Science, University of Wales, 1902.
Honorary Doctor of Laws, Yale University, 1903.
Honorary Doctor of Science, London University, 1903.
Honorary Doctor of Science, Leeds University, 1904.
Chancellor of the University of Glasgow, 1 904.

                                                                            1215

I216 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

GOVERNMENTS AND MUNICIPALITIES

Knight Bachelor, 1866.

Freedom of the City of Glasgow, 1866.

Commander of the Imperial Order of the Rose (Brazil), 1873.
Legion of Honour (France), Commander, 1881.

        ,, ,, ,, Grand Officer, 1889.                          of
Knight of the Prussian Order Pour le Mtrite, 1884.
Commander of the Order of Leopold (Belgium), 1890.
Freedom of the City of London, and Honorary Liveryman

        the Clothworkers' Company, 1891.
Barony of Largs in the County of Ayr (U.K.), 1892.
Deputy Lieutenant of the County of the City of Glasgow, 1894.
Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order, 1896.
Honorary Colonel of the Electrical Engineers (Volunteers), 1897.
Master of the Clothworkers' Company, 1900.
Order of the First Class of the Sacred Treasure of Japan, 1901.
Order of Merit, 1902.
Privy Councillor of Great Britain, 1902.

LEARNED SOCIETIES AND ACADEMIES

Cambridge Philosophical Society,              1889.
        Member, 1845 ;
       Hopkins Prize (for period 1874-1876),

British Association for the Advancement of Science,     1884;

        Member, 1845 ;
       President of Section A, 1852, 1867, 1876, 1881,
        President, 1871.

Glasgow (Royal) Philosophical Society,

        Member, 1846 ;
        President, 1856, 1874;

        Honorary Member, 1896.

Royal Society of Edinburgh,
        Fellow, 1847 ;
       Keith Medallist, 1864;

       Gunning Victoria Jubilee Prize, 1887;
        President, 1873-1878; 1886-1890; 1895-1907.

Royal Society of London,
        Fellow, 1851 ;
        Royal Medallist, 1856;
        Copley Medallist, 1883;
        President, 1890-1895.

LIST OF DISTINCTIONS                                      1217

Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society,
       Honorary Member, 1851.

Regia Scientiarum Academia Svecica (Stockholm),
        Foreign Member, 1851.

Regia Scientiarum Societas (Upsala),
        Foreign Member, 1852.

Royal College of Preceptors,
        Honorary Member, 1858.

Konigliche Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Gottingen,
       Corresponding Member, 1859;
        Foreign Member, 1864.

Academia Literarum et Scientiarum Regia Boica (Miinchen),
        Corresponding Member, 1859;
        Foreign Member, 1880.

Mathematical Society of London,
        Member, 1867 ;
        President, 1898-1899.

Royal Astronomical Society (London),
        Fellow, 1868.

Regia Scientiarum Academia Borussica (Berlin),  ("Society of
        Corresponding Member, 1871 j
       Helmholtz Medallist, 1892;
        Foreign Member, 1900.

Institution of Electrical Engineers (London),
       Foundation Member and Vice - President
            Telegraph Engineers"), 1871 ;
       Honorary Member, 1899;
        President, 1874, 1889, 1907.

Glasgow Geological Society,
       Honorary Member, 1872 ;
        President, 1872-1893.

Institution of Naval Architects (London),
       Honorary Member, 1873.

Hungarian Academy of Sciences,
        Foreign Member, 1873.

Reale Accademia delle scienze di Bologna,
        Corresponding Member, 1873.

I2i8 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

American Academy of Arts and Sciences (Boston),
        Foreign Honorary Member, 1873.

American Philosophical Society (Philadelphia),
        Member, 1873.

Institution of Civil Engineers (London),
        Member, 1874 ;
       Honorary Member, 1889.

Institut de France,                1874;
       Awarded the Prix Poncelet,

        Foreign Associate, 1877 ;
        Arago Medallist, 1896.

Acaddmie royale des sciences (Amsterdam),
        Foreign Member, 1874.

Physical Society of London,
        Member, 1875 ;
        President, 1880-1881.

Socie'td franchise de physique,
       Honorary Member, 1876.

Academy of Sciences (New York),
       Honorary Member, 1876.

Socie'te' des arts de Geneve,
        Associd honoraire, 1876.

Societa Italiana delle scienze (detta dei XL), Napoli,

        Matteucci Prize, 1876 ;
        Foreign Member, 1876.

Naturforschende Gesellschaft (Basel),
       Honorary Member, 1876.

Societas Regia Scientiarum Hauniensis (Copenhagen),
        Foreign Member, 1876.

American Electrical Society,
       Honorary Member, 1876.

Academia Imperialis Scientiarum (St. Petersburg),
        Corresponding Member, 1878 ;
       Honorary Member, 1896.

Royal Irish Academy (Dublin),
       Honorary Member, 1878.

LIST OF DISTINCTIONS  1219

Societas Physico-Medica Erlangensis,
         Honorary Member, 1878.

Academic royale de Belgique (Bruxelles),
        Associate, 1878.

Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften (Wien),
        Foreign Corresponding Member, 1878 ;
        Foreign Honorary Member, 1884.

Royal Society of Arts (London),
       Albert Medallist, 1879;
        Member, 1880.

Regia Taurinensis Academia Scientiarum,
        Corresponding Member, 1881 ;
        Member, 1882.

Reale Istituto Lombardo di scienze e lettere in Milano,
        Corresponding Member, 1882.

Reale Accademia dei Lincei (Roma),
        Corresponding Member, 1882.

New Zealand Institute,
       Honorary Member, 1883.

National Academy of Sciences of the United^tates (Washington),
        Foreign Associate, 1883.

Midland Institute (Birmingham),
        President, 1883-1884.

Edinburgh Mathematical Society,
       Honorary Member, 1883.

Socie'te' internationale des e'lectriciens (Paris),
        Member, 1884.

Reale Accademia Lucchese (Lucca),
        Corresponding Member, 1884.

Socie'te' hollandaise des sciences (Haarlem),
        Foreign Member, 1885.

Socie'te' impe'riale des amis des sciences naturelles d'anthropologie
    et d'ethnologie (Moscow),
        Honorary Member, 1885.

Societe batave de philosophic expe'rimentale (Rotterdam),
        Corresponding Member, 1885.

1220 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

Royal Institution of Great Britain,  1892.
        Member, 1886.
        Vice-President and Manager,

Academia Caesareae Leopoldino-Carolinae      Germaniae Naturae

   Curiosorum (Halle),
        Member, 1887.

Physikalischer Verein (Frankfurt am Main),
        Honorary Member, 1887.

Canadian Society of Civil Engineers (Montreal),
       Honorary Member, 1889.

Reale Istituto Veneto di scienze, lettere ed arti (Venezia),
        Member, 1889.

National Electric Light Association of New York,
       Honorary Member, 1890.

Association des inge'nieurs-e'lectriciens  sortis de l'institut Monte'-
    fiore (Lie'ge),
       Honorary Member, 1890.

Institute of Marine Engineers (London),

       Honorary Life Member, 1891.
        President, 1892-1893.

Peterhouse Science Club (Cambridge),
        President, 1892.

Sociedad cientifica " Antonio Alzate " (Mexico),
        Honorary Member, 1892.

American Institute of Electrical Engineers,
       Honorary Member, 1892.

Societa reale di Napoli,
        Foreign Member, 1893.

Academy of Natural Sciences (Philadelphia),
        Corresponding Member, 1893.

Socie'te' d'encouragement pour l'industrie nationale (Paris),
        Awarded the Ampere Medal, 1894.

Imperial University of Kasan,
        Honorary Member, 1894.

Reale Accademia di scienze, lettere ed arti in Padova,
        Honorary Member, 1894.

LIST OF DISTINCTIONS  1221

Junior Institution of Engineers (London),
        Vice-President, 1895.

Reale Accademia di scienze, lettere ed arti in Modena,
       Honorary Member, 1895.

Imperial University of St. Petersburg,
       Honorary Member, 1896.

Socie'te' des sciences de Finlande,
       Honorary Member, 1896.

Imperial Medical Military Academy of St. Petersburg,
        Honorary Member, 1896.

Socie'te' de physique et d'histoire naturelle de Geneve,
        Honorary Member, 1896.

Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society (London),
       Honorary Member, 1896.

Academy of Sciences, California,
        Honorary Member, 1896.

British Institute of Preventive Medicine (London),
        Honorary Fellow, 1896.

Imperial Society of Naturalists of the University of Moscow,
        Honorary Member, 1896.

British Institute of Public Health (London),
        Honorary Fellow, 1896.

Chester Society of Natural Science,
        Honorary Member, 1897.

Scientific Society of Christiania,
         Foreign Member, 1900.

Franco-Scottish Society,
        President of the Scottish Branch, 1901.

National American Engineering Societies,
        John Fritz Medallist, 1902.

Universit^ impe'riale de Yourieff (Russia),
         Honorary Member, 1903.

Society of Engineers of South Wales,
         Honorary Member, 1903.

1222 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

Royal Society of New South Wales (Sydney),
        Honorary Member, 1903.

Verband deutscher Elektrotechniker (Berlin),
        Honorary Member, 1904.

Optical Society (London),
        Honorary Member, 1905.

Faraday Society (London),
        President, 1905-1907.

Associazione elettrotecnica Italiana,
       Honorary Member, 1906.

                                    APPENDIX B

                                    BIBLIOGRAPHY

                          PART I.-- PRINTED BOOKS

1. Elements of Dynamics [The "Glasgow Pamphlet"]. Edited,
         with permission, by John Ferguson, M.A., from notes of
        lectures delivered by William Thomson, LL.D. Glasgow,
         George Richardson, Printer to the University, 1863, pp.
        ii. + 8l.

    and edition. Glasgow, 1869, pp. 84 + Appendix of vii.
2. Atlantic Telegraph Cable. Address delivered before the
    Royal Society of Edinburgh by Professor William Thomson,
    LL.D. . . . with other documents. 8vo, pp. 31. W. Brown
    and Co., London, 1866.
3. Elementary Dynamics. By Sir W. Thomson and P. G. Tail.
    8vo, pp. + 120 + 10. Oxford, 1867.
                          ii.

    Another edition of the same. 8vo, pp. + 38. Oxford,
                     [monarkNeadtu"rNalotPhPiulobsloisphheyd."].  in
4.       1868                                                     By Sirii.William     Thomson,
    Treatise
    LL.D., D.C.L., F.R.S. . . . and Peter Guthrie Tait, M.A.                        1

    Vol.      I. I.  8vo, pp. xxiv. 727. Oxford, 1867.
                                          +
                                                  8vo, pp. xviii. + 508. Cambridge,
                                              I.
    New edition, Vol. Part
                                    I I.
    1879. Reprinted from stereotypes                                      1886, 1888, 1890,

         1896,       P1a9r0t 3.II.      8vo, pp. xxviii. + 527.           Cambridge, 1883.
    Vol.

5.       Reprinted from stereotypes in 1890, 1895, 1903.
    Handbuch der theoretischen Physik. Von Sir William
    Thomson und Professor P. G. Tait. Autorisirte deutsche

    Uebersetzung von Dr. H. Helmholtz und G. Wertheim.

          Bd. Theile und 2. 8vo. Braunschweig, 1871-1874.I.,
6. Sir Isaac Newton's Principia, reprinted for Sir William Thomson,
    LL.D., late Fellow of St. Peter's College, Cambridge, and
    Hugh Blackburn, M.A., late Fellow of Trinity College,

    Cambridge, Professors of Natural Philosophy and Mathe

    matics in the University of Glasgow.                                  Glasgow.                 James

    MacLehose, Publisher to the University. Printed by Robert

    MacLehose. 410, pp. xxxvi. (inc. blanks) + 538 blanks),
                                                                  3
                                                                                               (2

    1871.

1224 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

7. Reprint of Papers on Electrostatics and Magnetism. By
        Sir William Thomson, LL.D., D.C.L., F.R.S., F.R.S.E.

8vo, pp. xvi. + 592. London, 1872.
2nd edition. London, 1884.
8. Reports of the Committee on Electrical Standards appointed
                                                            by Sir
by  the British Association  [1862-1869]. Revised           F.R.S.,
W.  Thomson, LL.D., F.R.S.,
                             Dr. J. P. Joule, LL.D.,
Professors J. Clerk Maxwell, M.A., F.R.S., and F. Jenkin,
F.R.S., etc. 8vo, pp. 248 + iv. 7 pi. London, 1873.
9. Elements of Natural Philosophy. By Professors Sir William
Thomson and P. G. Tait. Part I. 8vo, pp. viii. + 279.

Oxford, 1873.

        and edition. 8vo, pp. viii. -+-295. Cambridge, 1879.

10. Tables for facilitating S1mmer's Method at Sea. Fol., pp. 22.

London, 1876.
2nd edition. London, 1886.

1 1. Forms for use with Sir W. Thomson's Tables for facilitating
          Simmer's Method at Sea. 2 Nos. 410. London, 1876.
12. Instructions for the Adjustment of Sir William Thomson's
Patent Compass of 1879. 8vo, 22pp. Glasgow, 1880.
13. Mathematical and Physical Papers.          By Sir William
          Thomson, LL.D., D.C.L., F.R.S.

       VoL I. 8vo, pp. xiv. + 558. Cambridge, 1882.

      Vol. II. 8vo, pp. xii. + 407, xx. pi. Cambridge, 1884.
     Vol. III. Elasticity, Heat, Electro-Magnetism. 8vo, pp. xii. +

           529. London, 1890.
14. The Six Gateways of Knowledge. An Address delivered in

           the Town Hall, Birmingham, on October 3, 1883, by Pro
          fessor Sir William Thomson, LL.D., F.R.S., President [of
           the Birmingham and Midland Institute]. Svo, 28 pp.
           Birmingham, 1883.
15. Notes of Lectures on Molecular Dynamics and the Wave
          Theory of Light. Delivered at the Johns Hopkins Uni
           versity, Baltimore, by Sir William Thomson, Professor in the
           University of Glasgow, Stenographically reported by A. S.

Hathaway.      [Papyrograph edition.]          410, pp. x. + 328.

Baltimore, Md., 1884.
16. Practical Guide for Compensation of Compasses without Bear

ings, by Lieut. Collet, with Preface by Sir W. Thomson.

            8vo, 65 pp. Portsmouth, 1885.                   London,
17. Popular Lectures and Addresses.

       Vol. I. Constitution of Matter. Nature Series, 8vo.

    1889. pp. xii. + 460. 2nd edition, London, 1894.

VoL II. Geology and General Physics. Nature Series, Svo,

    pp. xii.  + 599. London, 1894.     Nature  Series.      Svo, pp.
                Navigational Affairs.
Vol. III.

           xii. + 511. London, 1891.
1 8. Conferences scientiflques et allocutions de Lord Kelvin.

                                                 BIBLIOGRAPHY                                        1225

       Traduites et annote'es par P. Lugol et M. Brillouin. 8vo,

       Paris, 1893.
19. Electric Waves, by Dr. Heinrich Hertz. Authorised English
       Translation by D. E. Jones, B.Sc.,
       pp.], by Lord Kelvin, LL.D., D.C.L.,                                        with a Preface    [of 7
                                                                                   President of the  Royal

           Society. 8vo, pp. xviii. + 278. London, 1893.
20. The Molecular Tactics of a Crystal, being the Second Robert

       Boyle Lecture. Delivered before the Oxford University

       Junior Scientific Club on Tuesday, May 16, 1893. 8vo,
           59 pp. Oxford, 1894.
21. The Horsfall Destructor.                                        A Report by Lord Kelvin and

           Professor Archibald Barr, pp. 19 fol. Leeds, 1899.

22. James Watt. An Oration delivered in the University of

       Glasgow on the Commemoration of its Ninth Jubilee. 8vo,
             pp. 22. Glasgow, 1901.

23. Baltimore Lectures on Molecular Dynamics and the Wave
          Theory of Light, founded on Mr. A. S. Hathaway's Steno

       graphic Report of Twenty Lectures delivered in Johns Hop
       kins University, Baltimore, in October 1884; followed by

       Twelve Appendices on Allied Subjects. By Lord Kelvin,
       O.M., G.C.V.O., P.C., F.R.S., etc., President of the Royal

       Society of Edinburgh, Fellow of St. Peter's College, Cam

       bridge, and Emeritus Professor of Natural Philosophy in' the

       University of Glasgow. 8vo, pp. xxii. + 694. London, 1904.
24. Hermann von Helmholtz, by Leo Konigsberger.                                        Translated

       by F. A. Welby, with a Preface [of 3 pages], by Lord
       Kelvin. 8vo, pp. xviii. + 440. Oxford, 1906.
25. Vorlesungen iiber Molekulardynamik und Theorie des Lichts
       [Baltimore Lectures]. Deutsch herausgegeben von B. Wein-
       stein. 8vo, pp. 18 + 590. Leipzig, 1909.

    PART II.--SCIENTIFIC COMMUNICATIONS AND

                                                 ADDRESSES

1841.

  1. On Fourier's Expansions of Functions in Trigonometrical Series

       [signed P. Q. R.]. Camb. Math,                                              II. pp. 258-262,  May
                                                                    I.
       1841 Math. and Phys. Papers
                                                                          Jl.

                                                                                 i.
  3.                                                                    art. pp. 1-6.
                        ;
2.  Note on a Passage in Fourier's                                  Heat  [signed    P. Q. R.]. Camb.
                              Q.Math, Jl.1n. pp. 25-27, Nov.                Math,    and Phys. Papers
                                                                    1841;              ;
                                              ;
       art.ii. pp. 7-9.                                                                    2 I.
                                                                                                          I.
1842.

    On the Uniform Motion of Heat Homogeneous Solid Bodies,         in

       and its Connection with the Mathematical Theory of Electricity
       [signed P. R.]. Camb. Math. Jl. III. pp.71-84, Feb. 1842;
       Phil. Mag. VII. pp. 502-515                                  (MSaupthp,leamnedntP)h, ys.18P5a4pers[withartf.ooiiti.
       notes added in                          MaEr.chan1d85M4].,   art.i. pp. 1-14. [See No. 89.]
                                                                 ;
                                                                                                   T
         p.9  I[Ititle  only]

    VOL.

1226 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

4. On the Linear Motion of Heat [signed N. N.]. Camb. Math.
      Jl. HI. pp. 170-174, Nov. 1842; pp. 206-211, Feb. 1843;
       Math, and Phys. Papers I. art.iv. pp. 10-15, art.v. pp. 16-21.

5. Propositions in the Theory of Attraction [signed P. Q. R.].
      Camb. Math. Jl. ill. pp. 189-196, Nov. 1842; pp. 201-206,
       Feb. 1843; Math, and Phys. Papers I. art. vi. p. 21 [title
       only] ; E. and M. art.xii. pp. 126-138.

1843.

6. On the Attractions of Conducting and Non-conducting Electrified
                                                                                   Jl. in.
            BMoadyies18[4s3ign!edMaPt.h,Qa. nRd.].PhysC.amPabp. erMs atI.h.        art vii.      pp. 275-276,
                                                                                                  p. 21 [title
            only] ; E. and M. art. vii. pp. 98-99.
7. Notes on Orthogonal Isothermal Surfaces [signed P. Q. R.].
      Camb. Math. in. pp. 286-288, May 1843; IV. pp. 179-182,
                     I. I.
            Nov. 1844; Math, and Phys. Papers                                    I.   art. viii. pp. 22-24,
              artxii. pp. 48-52.; Jl.                                               I.
9. 8.       On the Equations of the Motion of Heat referred to Curvilinear

            Co-ordinates [signed P. Q.        R.].                          Camb.     Math. Jl. iv. pp. 33-
            42, Nov. 1843 Math, and           Phys.                        Papers
                                                                                          art. ix. pp. 25-35.

1844.

            Elementary Demonstration           of Dupin's Theorem [signed P.                           Q. R.].
              Camb. Math. Jl. iv. pp.         62-64, Feb. 1844; Math, and                               Phys.

            Papers    art. x. pp. 36-38.

10.         Note on  some         Points    in the Theory of               Heat [signed              P. Q. R.].
              Camb.  Math.        Jl. IV.   pp. 67-72, Feb.                1844; Math,               and Phys.

            Papers    art. xi. pp. 39-47.

11. Note on the Law of Gravity at the Surface of Revolving
                                                                                               a
            Homogeneous             Fluid [signed P.  Q. R.].                           Camb.      I.Math. Jl. iv.
            pp. 191-192,          Nov. 1844; Math,    and Phys.                          Papers            art. xiii.

        PP- 53-54-
2. Note sur la throne de 1'attraction. Liouville Joum. de Math.
i1          ix. pp. 239-244, 1844.

     3.1845.

            Demonstration of a Fundamental Proposition in the Mechanical

            Theory of Electricity. Camb. Math. Jl. iv. pp. 223-226, Feb.
            1845 Math, and Phys. Papers                                    art xiv. p. 54 [title only]
            E. and M. art. viii. pp. 100-103.;I.                                                           ;;
                                                           I.
14. On the Reduction of the General Equation of Surfaces of the7 I.
            Second Order. Camb. Math. JLiv. pp. 227-233, Feb. 1845
            Math, and Phys. Papers1           art. xv. pp. 5-62.
                                                                                 5
                                                                                           ;
11i         On the Lines of Curvature of Surfaces of the Second Order.
            Camb. Math. Jl. iv. pp. 279-286, May 1845 Math, and Phys.
     7. 5.                     art. xvi. pp. 63-71.
            Papers

          6. Demonstration d'un theoreme d'analyse. Liouville Journ. de
            Math. X. pp. 137-147, 1845 Math, and Phys. Papers
                                            1                                                          I.  art-
                                                                ;
            xvii. p.           [title only].
                                                                        ;
            Note on the Elementary Laws of Statical Electricity. Brit. Assoc.

            Report (Sect), pp. 1-12, 1845 Liouville Journ. de Math. x.

                        BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                        1227

           pp. 209-221, 1845; Phil. Mag. vIII. p. 42, July 1854. [See
           Nos. 20 and 89], with additions in brackets. Math, and Phys.

              Papers I. art. xviii. p. 7 1 [title only].
    1 8. Extrait d'une lettre sur l'application du principe des images a

           la solution de quelques problemes relatifs a la distribution

           d'electricite. Liouville Journ. de Math. X. pp. 364-367, 1845
           [Oct. 8, 1845]; Math, and Phys. Papers I. art. xix. p. 71
            [title only] ; E. and M. art. xiv. pp. 144-146.
    19. Note on Induced Magnetism in a Plate. Camb. and Dub. Math,
           Jl. I. pp. 34-37, Nov. 1845 ; Math, and Phys. Papers I. art.
           xx. p. 71 [title only] ; E. and M. art. ix. pp. 104-107.
    20. On the Mathematical Theory of Electricity in Equilibrium.
           Camb. and Dub. Math, Jl. I. pp. 75-95, Nov. 1845; Phil.
           Mag. vnI.    pPph.ys4.2-6P2a,perJsulyxx1I8.54p.[w71ith[taitdleditioonnlsy].  in
                                                                                            brackets].
           Math. and                                                                        [See Nos.

           1 7 and 89] ; E. and M. art. ii. pp. I 5-37.

    1846.

    21. Note on the Rings and Brushes in the Spectra produced by
            Biaxal Crystals. Camb. and Dub. Math, Jl. I. pp. 124-126,
               1846 ; Math. and Phys. Papers I. art. xxii. pp. 72-74.
    22. On the Principal Axes of a Rigid Body. Camb. and Dub. Math.

           Jl. I. pp. 127-133, pp. 195-206, 1846; Math. and Phys.
            Papers  I.  art. xxiii. p. 7 5 [title only]     T and T', §§282-284.
         Note on    a                                    ;
                        Paper: "Sur une proprie'te'         de la couche e'lectrique
    23.
           en e'quilibre a la surface d'un corps conducteur. Camb. and
           Dub. Math. Jl. I. pp. 281-282, Nov. 1846; Math, and Phys.
           Papers I. art. xxiv. p. 75 [title only]; E. and M. art. x. pp.

           108-111.

    1847.

    24. On a Mechanical Representation of Electric, Magnetic, and

            Galvanic Forces. Camb. and Dub. Math, Jl. n. pp. 61-64,

              1847 ; Math, and Phys. Papers I. art. xxvii. pp. 76-80.
         On certain Definite Integrals suggested by Problems in the
    25.                                         Dub. Math, Jl. n. pp. 109-
           Theory of    Electricity. Camb. and
           122, Mar.    1847 ; Math, and Phys.  Papers I. art. xxviii. p. 80
           [title only] ; E. and M. art. xi. pp. 112-125.
    26. Notice of Stirling's Air-Engine. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. II. pp.

              169-170 [read Apr. 21, 1847].
    27. On the Forces experienced by small Spheres under Magnetic
           Influence ; and on some of the Phenomena presented by
           Diamagnetic Substances. Camb. and Dub. Math, Jl. II. pp.

           230-235, 1847; Math, and Phys. Papers I. art. xxix. p. 80
            [title only] ; E. and M. art. xxxiii. pp. 493-499.
    28. On a System of Magnetic Curves. Camb. and Dub. Math. Jl. II.

             p. 240, May 1847; Math, and Phys. Papers I. art. xxx. pp.

           81-82.

    29. Notes on Hydrodynamics. (1) On the Equation of Continuity.
             (2) On the Equation of the Bounding Surface. Camb. and

L.

1228 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

       Dub.     Math.   Jl.il.   pp. 282-286, 1847; m. pp. 89-93, Feb.
       1848     ; Part  (i) in
                                T and T, § 194 ; Math, and Phys. Papers
       I. art. xxxi. pp. 83-87.
30. Systeme nouveau de coordonnees orthogonales. Liouville Journ.
       de Math. xii. pp. 256-264, 1847 ; Math, and Phys. Papers I.
       artxxxii. p. 87 [title only] ; E. and M. art. xiv. pp. 146-154.
31. On Electrical Images.              Brit. Assoc. Report, 1847, pt.
       6-7 Math, and Phys. Papers      I.                                                pp.
                                                        I.
                                                                                   p.

                                                                                    ii.
       ii.                                  artxxv. p. 75 [title only].
32. On the Electric Currents by which the Phenomena of Terrestrial
             ;Magnetism maybe produced. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1847, pt.

              pp. 38-39; Math, and Phys. Papers            art. xxvi.            75 [title

       only]; E. and M. art. xxix. pp. 462-465.
33. Note sur une Equation aux differences partielles, qui se pre'sente
       dans plusieurs questions de physique mathe'matique. Liouville
       Journ. de Math. XII. pp. 493-496, 1847; Math, and Phys.
                    art. xxxiii. p. 87 [title only] E. and M. art. xiii.
       Papers   I.                          I.
                                                     I.
       pp. 142-143-
                                                             ;
1848.
                                                           I.
34. Theorems with Reference to the Solution of certain Partial     i.
       Differential Equations. Camb. and Dub. Math. Jl. in. pp. 84-
       87, Feb. 1848 Math, and Phys. Papers                          art. xxxvi. pp. 93-
                        ;

       96; E. and M. art. xiii. pp. 139-141.
35. Note on the Integration of the Equations of Equilibrium of an

        Elastic Solid. Camb. and Dub. Math. Jl. in. pp. 87-89, Feb.
       1848; Math, and Phys. Papers                        art. xxxvi pp. 97-99.

36. On the Mathematical Theory of Electricity in Equilibrium.
       Camb. and Dub. Math. Jl. in. pp. 131-148, Mar., pp. 266-274,
       May, 1848 Math, and Phys. Papers                    art. xxxviii. p. 99 [title
                    ;

       only]; E. and M. art. iv. pp. 42-51, art. v. pp. 52-68. [See
       Nos. 43, 45-]
37. On an Absolute Thermometric Scale, founded on Camot's
       Theory of the Motive Power of Heat, and calculated from the

       Results of Regnault's Experiments on the Pressure and Latent

       Heat of Steam. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. II. 262 [read Apr.
                                                                     p.          pp. 66-71,
                                                                             I.
       12, 1848, title only]; Camb. Phil. Soc. Proc.

       1866 [read June 1848] Phil. Mag. xxxiii. pp. 313-317, Oct.
                           5,
                                            ;
                                                       I.
       1848; Math, and Phys. Papers                        art. xxxix. pp. 100-106.

38. On the Equilibrium of Magnetic or Diamagnetic Bodies of any
         Form under the Influence of the Terrestrial Magnetic Force.
         Brit. Assoc. Report, 1848, pt. ii. pp. 8-9 Math, and Phys.
                                                           ;
       Papers       art. xxxiv. pp. 88-90.
                I.                                                                I.
                                  ii.                                  Brit. Assoc.
39. On the Theory of Electromagnetic Induction.
       Report, 1848, pt. pp. 9-10; Math, and Phys. Papers                                art.

       xxxv. pp. 91-93.

1849.

40. An Account of Carnot's Theory of the Motive Power of Heat,
         with Numerical Results deduced from Regnault's Experiments

       on Steam.        Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. n. pp. 198-204 [read

                     BIBLIOGRAPHY                                              1229

       Jan. 2, 1849]; Edinb. Roy. Soc. Trans, xvI. pp. 541-574,
       1849; Annal.de Chimie xxxv. pp. 248-255, 1852; Math,

       and Phys. Papers I. art. xli. pp. 113-164.
41. Notes on Hydrodynamics. On the Vis-viva of a Liquid in
       Motion. Camb. and Dub. Math, Jl. 1v. pp. 90-94, Feb. 1849;

       Math, and Phys. Papers I. art. xl. pp. 107-112.
42. A Mathematical Theory of Magnetism. Roy. Soc. Proc. v.
                                            ; Roy. Soc. Proc. v. pp. 975-
       pp. 845-846 [read June 21,  1849]    Trans, pp. 243-285, 1851 ;
       978 [read June 20, 1850];     Phil.

       Phil. Mag. xxxv. p. 540, 1849; E. and M. art. xxiv. pp.

       340-425.                             on Internal Spherical and on
43. Effects of Electrical Influence
         Plane Conducting Surfaces.         Camb. and Dub. Math,               a       IV.

       pp. 276-284, Nov. 1849 E. and M. art. v. pp. 68-77. [See                   Jl.
       . Nos. 36, 45.];
44. On some Remarkable Effects of Lightning observed in Farm;

         house near Moniemail, Cupar-Fife. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc.5,
                                            1849]. Phil. Mag. xxxvII. pp.
       III. pp. 69-72 [read Dec.
       53-57, July 1850 E. and M. art. xvi. pp. 232-236.

1850.

45.  On the Mathematical Theory of Electricity in Equilibrium.

       Camb. and Dub. Math, Jl. v. pp. 1-9, 1850 E. and M. art. v.
                                                        ;

         pp. 77-85. [See Nos. 36 and 43.]
46. The Effect of Pressure in Lowering the Freezing Point of Water,

         experimentally demonstrated. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. II. pp.
       267-271, 1851 [read Jan. 21, 1850]; Phil. Mag. xxxvII. pp.
       123-127,1850; Annal. de Chimie. xxxv. pp. 381-383, 1852
       ;

                      I.

                                        ;

                                  Jl.

                                                     I.

                                                                                                ;

                                                                                I.
                                                                                          a

                                                                                                                                          ;
       Journ. de Pharm. xvm. pp. 372-375, 1850 Poggend. Annal.
       LXXXI. pp. 163-168, 1850; Amer. Jl. of Science XI. (2nd
       Ser.) p. 115, 1851 Math, and Phys. Papers                           art. xlv. pp.

47.     165-169.          " Problem respecting          Polygons           in  Plane"
     Notes on a paper:
       by Robert Moon. Camb. and Dub. Math, Jl. v. pp. 137-139,
       1850 Math, and Phys. Papers          art. xliii. p. 164 [title only].
     On the Potential of a Closed           Galvanic Circuit of any Form.
48.    Camb. and Dub. Math. v.              pp. 142-148, 1850; Math, and

       Phys. Papers       art.xliv. p. 164 [title only]; E. and. M. art.

       xxv. pp. 425-431.
49. On the Theory of Magnetic Induction in Crystalline Substances.
       Brit. Assoc. Report, 1850, pt.                   p. 23 Phil. Mag.
                                                                                       pp.
       p.
                 1

                                                ;

                                          I.
                                                        ii.

                                                                         p.
                                                                                            ;
                                                                                               I.

                                                                                                                                          ;
       177-186, March 1851 E. and M. art. xxx. pp. 465-481
       Math, and Phys. Papers               art. xlii.  164 [title only]; art.

          lii. 47 [title only],
50. Remarks on the Forces experienced by Inductively-magnetised
       Ferromagnetic or Diamagnetic Non-crystalline Substances.

       Phil. Mag. XXXVII. pp. 241-253, Oct. 1850 Poggend. Annal.
                                            I.
                                                                     p. ;
       LXXXII. pp. 245-262, 1851; E. and M. art. xxxiv. pp. 500-
       513; Math, and Phys. Papers
                                            art. xlvi.                     169 [title only].

1230 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

51. On a Remarkable Property of Steam connected with the Theory
       of the Steam-Engine.       [A Letter to J. P. Joule.] Phil. Mag.
       XXXVII. pp. 386-389, Nov. 1850; Poggend. Annal. LXXXI.
       pp. 477-480, 1850 ; Math, and Phys. Papers I. art. xlvii. pp.

       170-173.

1851.                     TJh"oeuOolbersy'servo"aftEioHqnuesiavat;olennwtiSthtoefamNau."mTheerEricmdainal lbR. UesRnuoitlyts."

52.  On the Dynamical
       deduced from Mr.

       and M. Regnault's
             Proc. III. pp. 48-52 [read Mar.
       Soc.  Trans. XX. pp. 261-288, 1853 ;   17, 1851]; Edinb. Roy.
       Soc.                                   Liouville Journ. de Math,
       xvii. pp. 209-252, 1852; Phil. Mag. iv. pp. 8-21, pp. 105-
       117, pp. 168-176, 1852; Annal.de Chimie xxxvi. pp. 118-
       124, 1852 ; Math, and Phys. Papers I. art. xlviii. pp. 174-210.
53. On a Method of Discovering Experimentally the Relation
       between the Mechanical Work spent and the Heat produced

       by the Compression of a Gaseous Fluid. [Part IV. of
       Dynamical Theory of Heat.] Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. ill.
       pp. 69-71 [read Apr. 21, 1851]. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Trans.
       XX. pp. 289-298, 1853; Annal. de Chimie LXIV. pp. 504-
       509, 1862; Phil. Mag. IV. pp. 424-434, Dec. 1852; Math.

       and Phys. Papers 1. art. xlviii. pp. 210-222.

54. Note on the Effect of Fluid Friction in Drying Steam which
         issues from a High-Pressure Boiler through a small Orifice

       into the Open Air. Phil. Mag. I. p. 474, June 1851 ; II. pp.

55.     273-274, Oct. 1851.            Part V. :-- On the  Quantities
     On the Dynamical Theory of Heat,

       of Mechanical Energy contained in a Fluid in different

       States as to Temperature and Density. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.

       in. pp. 90-91 [read Dec. 15, 1851] ; Edinb. Roy. Soc. Trans.
       xx. pp. 475-482, 1853 ; Phil. Mag. IX. pp. 523-531 (Supple
       ment), 1 8 5 5 ; Math. and. Phys. Papers I. art.xlviii. pp. 222-232.
     On a Mechanical  Theory of Thermo-electric Currents.  P[rPoca.rtilol.f
56.    the Dynamical  Theory of Heat.] Edinb. Roy. Soc.

       pp. 91-98 [read Dec. 15, 1851]; Math, and Phys. Papers I.
       art. xlviii. pp. 316-323.
57. On the Mechanical Theory of Electrolysis. Phil. Mag. II. pp.
         429-444, Dec. 1851 ; Math, and Phys. Papers I. art. liii. pp.

          472-489.
58. Applications of the Principle of Mechanical Effect to the

         Measurement of Electromotive Forces and of Galvanic
         Resistances in Absolute Units. Phil. Mag. n. pp. 551-562,
         Dec. 1851 ; Math, and Phys. Papers I. art. liv. pp. 490-502.
59. Magnecrystallic Property of Calcareous Spar. Letter to Phil.
         Mag. n. p. 574, Dec. 1851.

1852.
60. On the Mechanical Action of Radiant Heat or Light. On the

         Power of Animated Creatures over Matter. On the Sources

                  BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                                                1231

       available to Man for the Production of Mechanical Effect.
       Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. ill. pp. 108-113, '857 [read Feb. 2,
       1852]; Phil. Mag. IV. pp. 256-260, Oct. 1852; Math, and

       Phys. Papers I. art. Iviii. pp. 505-510.
      Additional Note to J.                                                         Air-Engine. Phil.
6 1.                                    P. Joule's paper on the                     College, Feb. 19,
         Trans, pp. 78-82,              1852 ; dated Glasgow

       1852, republished in Joule's Scientific Papers I. p. 350 ; Camb.
       and Dub. Math. Jl. vin. pp. 250-256, 1853; Math, and Phys.
       Papers I. art. xlviii. pp. 326-332.
62. On a Universal Tendency in Nature to the Dissipation of
       Mechanical Energy. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. in. pp. 139-142
       [read Apr. 19, 1852] ; Phil. Mag. IV. pp. 304-306, Oct. 1852.
         Math, and Phys. Papers I. art. lix. pp.
63.                                                                                 511-514.            Air   rushing
      Thomson and Joule. -- On the Thermal                                          Effects of

       through Small Apertures. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1852, p. 16

       [title only]; Phil. Mag. (ser. 4) IV. pp. 481-491, Dec. 1852 ;
       Math, and Phys. Papers I. art. xlix. pp. 333-345.
64. On the Sources of Heat generated by the Galvanic Battery.
       Brit. Assoc. Report, 1852, pt.                      pp. 16-17 Math, and Phys.
                  I.
                                                          ii.
                                                                                                     ;
       Papers     art. Iv. pp. 503-504.

65. On the Mutual Attraction and Repulsion between two
         Electrified Spherical Conductors. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1852,

       pp. 17-18; Phil. Mag. v. pp. 287-297, Apr. 1853, VI. pp.
       114-115, Aug. 1853; Math and Phys. Papers II. art. Ixiv.

         p. [title only] E. and M. art. vi. pp. 86-97.
66. On certain Magnetic Curves with Applications to Problems in
       I

                        p.
                                      ;

                                                ii. ;

                                                                       ;
                                                                                 ;
       the Theories of Heat, Electricity, and Fluid Motion. Brit.
                                             p. 18 Math, and Phys. Papers
       Assoc. Report, 1852, pt                                                                          5
                                                                                                          1
       art. Ivi.  504 [title only] E. and M. art. xxxv. pp.
                                                                                                                        I.
       SI4-5IS.
67. On the Equilibrium of Elongated Masses of Ferromagnetic
       Substance in Uniform and Varied Fields of Force. Brit.
                                                           pp. 18-20; Math, and Phys.
       Assoc. Report, 1852, pt.
                  I.
                                                      ii.
       Papers     art. Ivii. p. 504 [title only]; E. and M. art. xxxv.

          pp. 515-517.
68. On the Economy of the Heating or Cooling of Buildings by
       means of Currents of Air. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. in. pp.

       F26e9b-.2712854[r;eaMd atDhe,ca. nd   1852]; Phil.                           Mag. vu. pp.              138-142,
                                            Phys. Papers                              art Ix. pp.             5-520.
                                          I,

                                                                     I.

1853.

69. On the Mechanical Values of Distributions of Electricity,
        Magnetism, and Galvanism. Glasg. Phil. Soc, Proc. in. pp.

       2M8a1r-c2h8518[5r4ead MJaatnh.,  19,  1853]; Phil.                           Mag. vu.            pp. 192-197,
                                        and  Phys. Papers                              art. ki.         pp. 521-533.
                  ;
                            ;

                                                                      I.
                                                                                     I.
70. On Transient Electric Currents.                                                 Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. in.

       pp. 285-289 [read     MJaanth. ,      19, 1853];                             Phil. Mag. v.             pp. 393-
       405, June 1853                         and Phys.                                                       Ixii. pp.
                                                                                    Papers              art.

       534-553-

1232 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

71. On the Restoration of Mechanical Energy from an unequally
       heated Space. Phil. Mag. v. pp. 102-105, Feb. 1853 ; Math.
         and Phys. Papers I. art. Ixiii. pp. 554-558.
72. Thomson and Joule.---On the Thermal Effects of Elastic Fluids.
       Roy. Soc. Proc. VI.  pp. 331-332,
       1853]; Phil. Trans,     pp. 357-365.             1850-1854 [read June              16,
                                                          '853 ; Phil. Mag. VL            pp.

       230-231, 1853; Annal. de Chimie LXV. pp. 244-254, 1862;
       Poggend. Annal. xcvu. pp. 576-589, 1856 ; Math, and Phys.

       Papers I. art. xlix. pp. 346-356, pp. 432-433.

1854.

73. Remarques sur les oscillations d'aiguilles non-cristallise'es de
         faible pouvoir inductif paramagne'tique ou diamagnetique

       et sur d'autres phdnomenes magne'tiques produits par des

       corps cristallises ou non-cristallises. Comp. Rend. XXXVIII.

       pMpa. t6h3, 2a-n6d40P,hyMs.arPcahper1s85I4I.  [dated Glasgow, March        22, 1854];
                                                     art. Ixv. p. I [title only]  ; E. and M.

          art. xxxvi. pp. 5 1 8-5 26.
74. On the Mechanical Energies of the Solar System. Edinb. Roy.

        Soc. Proc. III. pp. 241-244 [read April 17, 1854]; Appendix
         on the Age of the Sun, added Aug. 15, 1854; Edinb. Roy.
       Soc. Trans. XXI. pp. 63-80, 1857; Comp. Rend, xxxix. pp.
       682-687, Oct. 1854; Phil. Mag. via. pp. 409-430, Dec. 1854;
       Math, and Phys. Papers II. art. Ixvi. pp. 1-25.
75. Note on the Possible Density of the Luminiferous Medium and
         on the Mechanical Value of a Cubic Mile of Sunlight. Edinb.
                          HI. p. 253 [read May I, 1854] ;
       Roy.  Soc. Proc.      pp. 57-61, 1857; Comp. Rend,                         Edinb.  Roy.
       Soc.  Trans, xxi.                                                          xxxix.    pp.

       529-534, Sept. 1854 ; Phil. Mag. IX. pp. 36-40, Jan. 1855;
       Math, and Phys. Papers II. art. Ixvii. pp. 28-33.
76. Account of Experimental Investigations to answer Questions
       originating in the Mechanical Theory of Thermo-electric

       Currents. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. ill. p. 255 [read May I,

           1854].                                       Part VI. (continued). --
77. On the Dynamical Theory of Heat,
       Thermo-electric Currents. Edinb.Roy.Soc.Proc.nl. pp.
       255-256, 1857 [read May I, 1854]; Edinb. Roy. Soc Trans.
       XXI. pp. 123-171, 1857; Phil. Mag. XI. pp. 214-225, Mar.,

       pp. 281-297, Apr., pp. 379-388, May, pp. 433-446, June
       1856 ; Math, and Phys. Papers I. art. xlviii. pp. 232-291, pp.

       324-325-                                                           Roy. Soc. Proc.
78. Account of Researches in Thermo-electricity.
       vii.                                             [rMeaadth,Maanyd  4, 1854]; PhiL Mag.
       VHI.  pp. 49-58,   1854-1855                  ;                    Phys. Papers I. art.li.
             pp. 62-69,
                          July 1854

          pp. 460-468.
79. On the Heat produced by an Electric Discharge. Letter to

        Phil. Mag. vii. pp. 347-348, May 1854.

80. Apergu des recherches relatives aux effets des courants

       electriques dans des conducteurs inegalement echauffe's, et

                         BIBLIOGRAPHY                                               1233

       a d'autres points de la thermo-e'lectricite'.                      Comp. Rend,
       xxxvm. pp. 828-829, May 8, 1854; Comp. Rend, xxxix.
       pp. 1 16-1 19, July 10, 1854 ; Math, and Phys. Papers I. art.
8
                                                                                              ;

                                                                                                                                           ;

                                                                                                                    I. li.
1.      pp. 460-463,     II. art. Ixviii.     p.  33.            Effects  of Fluids in
     Thomson and                           the
                         Joule. -- On             Thermal

       Motion [No. 2], Roy. Soc. Proc. VII. pp. 127-130 [read
       June 15, 1854]; Phil. Trans. pp.32i-364, 1854 Annal.
       de Chimie LXV. pp. 244-254, 1862 Math, and Phys. Papers

          art. xlix. pp. 357-400, pp. 433-436.
82. Note sur les effets de la pression et de la tension sur les

       proprie'te's thermo-e'lectriques des me'taux non-cristallise's.

       [Extrait d'une lettre de W. Thomson a M. itlie de Beaumont.]
       Comp. Rend, xxxix. pp. 252-253, July 31, 1854.
83. Account of Experimental Researches in Thermo-electricity
                    IV.]. Brit. Assoc.                                       pp. 13-14;
       [MPaatrht ,                         Report, 1854, pt.        .1
                    and Phys. Papers       art. pp. 469-47
                         ;                                              ii.

                              I.
                                        ii.

                                           li.
84. On the Mechanical Antecedents of Motion, Heat, and Light.
                                                  pp. 59-63 Edinb. New Phil.
       Brit. Assoc. Report, 1854, pt.                            ;

       Jl. pp. 90-97, 1855 Comp. Rend. XL. pp. 1197-1202, 1855
       [abstract] Math, and Phys. Papers n. art. Ixix. pp. 34-40.
       I.
                      ;

1855.

85. On Thermo-elastic and Thermomagnetic Properties of Matter,
       Part            Quart. Jl. of Math. pp. 57-77, 1857 [dated from
             I.                            I.

       Glasgow College, Mar. 10, 1855]; Phil. Mag. v. pp. 4-27,
       1878 [with additions]; Math, and Phys. Papers
                                                                    in           art. xlviii.
                                                                             I.
          pp. 291-316.                                                    the Theory of
86. Elementary Demonstrations of Propositions

       Magnetic Force. Phil. Mag. ix. pp. 241-248, Apr. 1855;
       Math, and Phys. Papers II. art. Ixx.
                                                           p.    40 [title only] E. and
                                                                                 ;

87.     M. art.     xxxvii. pp. 526-534.   and    on       the   Effects  of Compression
     On the "       Magnetic Medium,"

       (being       a  letter to Tyndall). Phil. Mag. IX. pp. 290-293,

       Apr. 1855; Math, and Phys. Papers ll. art. Ixxi. p. 41 [title
       only]; E. and M. art. xxxviii. pp. 535-538.
88. On the Theory of the Electric Telegraph. Roy. Soc. Proc. VII.

       pp. 382-399,      1F8e5b4.-18158556[;reaMd aMtha,y   24,  1855]; Phil. Mag. XI.
       pp. 146-160,                                        and   Phys. Papers II. art.

          Ixxiii. pp. 61-76.
89. On the Electro-statical Capacity of Leyden Phial and of

         Telegraph Wire insulated in the Axis of Cylindrical Con
                    ;
                                                                               3, a
                                                                                             a

                                                                                                               ;

                                                                                                          ii.
                                                                                                                                 a
       ducting Sheath. Phil. Mag. IX. pp. 531-535 (Supplement),
                                                           17, and 20]; Math, and
       1855 [an additional note to Nos.
       Phys. Papers II. art. Ixxiv. p. 76 [title only] E. and M. art
       iii. pp. 38-4 1.
90. On the Effects of Mechanical Strain on the Thermo-electric
       Qualities of Metals. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1855, pt.
                                                                                    pp.
       17-18 Math, and Phys. Papers II. art. Ixxxvi. pp. 173-174.
91. On the Use of Observations of Terrestrial Temperature for the

1234 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

       Investigation of Absolute Dates in Geology. Brit. Assoc.
       Report, 1855, pt                 pp. 18-19 Math, and Phys. Papers II.
                           ii. ii.                  ;;
       art.lxxxvii. pp. 175-177.
92. On the Electric Qualities of Magnetized Iron. Brit. Assoc.
                                                        Poggend. Annal. xcix.
       Report,   1185855,6;pt.Mathp, pa.nd19P-2h0ys.    Papers II. art. Ixxxviii.           pp.
       334-335,                                                                             pp.

       178-180.
93. On the Thermo-electric Position of Aluminium. Brit. Assoc.
                                        pp. 20-21 Math, and Phys. Papers II.
       Report, 1855, pt.
                          1                         ;
                            8

                                   ii.
       art. Ixxxix. p. 1.

94. On New Instruments for measuring Electrical Potentials and

       Capacities. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1855, pt.              ii.22.
                                                                     p.
                                                                            ii.

                                                                                                    ;
95. On Peristaltic Induction of Electric Currents in Submarine
       Telegraph Wires. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1855, pt.
       Math, and Phys. Papers II. art. Ixxv. pp. 77-78.                                     p. 22

96. On the Reciprocal Action of Diamagnetic Particles [Letter to
       Prof.  Tyndall on Dec.           24, 1855].      Pnil-  Mag. xi.    pp. 66-67,
       Jan.   1856; Math, and           Phys. Papers     n.                p. 41 [title
                                                               art. Ixxi.

       only]; E. and M. art. xxxviii. pp. 540-542.

1856.
97. Thomson and Joule. -- On the Thermal Effects of Fluids in
       Motion. Roy. Soc.Proc.vin. pp. 41-42                                 Feb. 21,
       1856]; Phil. Mag. XII. p. 466, Dec. 1856;               M[raeathd,  and Phys.

       Papers    art. xlix. pp. 436-437.
               I.
98. On the Electrodynamic Qualities of Metals (Bakerian Lecture).a
       Roy. Soc. Proc. vin. pp. 50-55, 1856-1867 [delivered Feb. 28,
       1856]; Phil. Trans. CXLVI. pp.64g-75i, 1856; Annal.de
       ChimieLiv. pp. 105-120, 1858 Phil.Mag.Xii. pp. 393-397,
       Nov. 1856; Math, and Phys. Papers II. art. xci. pp. 89-327,
                                        ;
                                                                                         1

 99.     pp. 396-401.                                   of Motive Power.                    Roy.
too.   On the Origin and Transformations
       ICnhsetmiti.sPt,roicn..il.pp.p6p0. 71-69192-,2041,85168; 54M-1at8h5,8an[dFePbh.ys2.9,Pap1e8rs56I]L;
101.   art. xc. pp. 182-188; Pop. Lect. ii. pp. 418-432.
102.   Elements of Mathematical Theory of Elasticity. Roy. Soc.

       Proc. vin. pp. 85-87 [abstract] [read Apr. 24, 1856]; PhiL
       Trans. CXLVI. pp. 481-498, 1856; Phil. Mag. XII. pp. 539-
       540 (Supplement), 1856; Math, and Phys. Papers in. art.

          xcii. pp. 84-112.                                    Roy. Soc. Proc.
       On Peristaltic Induction of Electric Currents.

         vni. pp. 121-132, 1856-1857 [read May 22, 1856]; Phil.;
         Mag. xni. pp. 135-145, Feb. 1857 Math, and Phys.
         Papers ii. art. Ixxv. pp. 79-91.
       Dynamical Illustrations of the Magnetic and the Helicoidal

       Rotatory Effects of Transparent Bodies on Polarized Light.
       Roy. Soc. Proc. vin. pp. 150-158, 1856-1857 [read June 12,
       1856]; Phil. Mag. XIII. pp. 138-204, Mar. 1857; Baltimore

       Lectures, Appendix F. pp. 569-583, 1904.

                              BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                                                           1235

103.    Thomson      :--andOnJotuhlee.T--emOpneratthuere                                                Thermal      Effects of Fluids in
           Motion                                                                                         of Solids    exposed to Currents

        of Air. Roy. Soc. Proc. vm. pp. 178-185, 1856-1857 [read
                        1856]; Phil.  Mag. XIII.                                                            pp. 286-291,       Apr.
        JMuanteh,  19,  Phys. Papers                                                                         pp. 437-444.            1857 ;
                   and                I. art. xlix.

104. On the Discovery of the True Form of Carnot's Function.
        [Letter to the Phil. Mag., May 12, 1856]; Phil. Mag. XI.
        pp. 447-448, June 1856.
105. On Dellmann's Method of observing Atmospheric Electricity.
        Brit. Assoc. Report, 1856, pt.
                        J.                                                                                  pp. 17-18.
106. Sui fenomini magneto-cristallini.I,
                                                                                                        [Lettera al Prof. Matteucci.]
                                                        ii.
        "ANuovo Cimentoiv. pp. 192-198, 1856 [Aug. 27, 1856].
107. Discussion of P. Joule's Paper on                                                                               Surface Condenser."

        Inst Mech. Engrs. Proc. 1856, pp. 191-192, and                                                                               p.194.
                                                                                                                                               a
        [Glasgow Meeting, Sept. 17 and 18, 1856.]
   08.                  toNoAvm. erica18[5L6e]t;teMrsattho,                                                 the  Athenasum of Oct. 4,
1       Telegraphs                                                                                          and  Phys. Papers II. art.
           1856, and

            Ixxvi. pp. 92-102.
109. On Practical Methods for Rapid Signalling by the Electric

           Telegraph. Roy. Soc. Proc. vm. pp. 299-307, 1856-1857;

        [two communications,          read Dec.                                                             1856]; Phil. Mag. XIV.
                              ;
        pp. 59-65, July 1857                                1
                                                                 1,
                                      Math, and Phys. Papers II. art. Ixxvii.

        pp. 103-111.

1857.                   of F. R. Window's Paper on "Submarine Tele
                       [Jan. 13, 1857]; Inst. Civ. Engrs. Proc. xvi. pp.
no. Discussion
                   I,  1857.                                                                                " Electromagnetism
           graphs"     of R.
                              Hunt's                    Paper                                           on                           as
in. 210-21
         Discussion
        Motive Power." Inst. Civ. Engrs. Proc. xvi. pp. 400-401

           [Apr. 21, 1857].                                                                                 of Metals: -- Effects        of
112. On the Electrodynamic Qualities
        Magnetization on the Electric Conductivity of Nickel and
                        Roy. Soc. Proc. vm. pp.
        of Iron.     Phil. Mag. xv. pp. 469-472,                                                            546-550 [read       June   15,
        1857];                                                                                               June 1858;        Math,  and

        Phys. Papers II. art. xci. pp. 327-331.
113. On the Electrical Conductivity of Commercial Copper of
        various kinds. Roy. Soc. Proc. vm. pp. 550-555, 1856-
                                                                                                        Phil. Mag. xv. pp. 472-476,
        1857       [read  JuMnaeth,15a, nd185P7hy];s.                                                    Papers n. art. Ixxviii. pp.
        June       1858;

114.    ThMHoom2t-is1oonn17.--anTdemJopuelrea.tu--reOn    the                                           Thermal Effects of Fluids in
                                                        of                                              Body moving slowly through
,
                                                                     :Air. Roy. Soc. Proc. vm. pp. 556-564, 1856-1857 [read
        June 15, 1857]; Phil. Mag. xv. pp. 477-482, June 1858;
                                                                                              I.Math, and Phys. Papersart. xlix. pp. 445-453.
                                                                                                     a
115.    On the Alterations of Temperature accompanying Changes of

        Pressure in Fluids. Roy. Soc. Proc. vm. pp. 566-569, 1856-
        1857 [read June 15, 1857]; Phil. Mag. xv. pp. 540-542

1236 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

                             (Supplement), 1858; Math, and Phys. Papers HI. art. xcii.

                             Appendix A. pp. 236-239.
        On Mr. Whitehouse's Relay and Induction Coils in Action on
1 1 6.
117.                         Short Circuit. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1857, pt.          ii.                     p. 21.
                                                                                        ii.
        On the Effects of Induction in Long Submarine Lines of

                             Telegraph. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1857, pt.                     pp. 21-22.
        On Machinery for laying Submarine Telegraph Cables. Brit
11
   1
      8.

                     i. Jl. in

                                               I.
                             ii,Assoc. Report, 1857, p. 199 [title only] Engineer IV. p. 185,;

                             Sept.   1857, and p. 280, Oct. 16, 1857,

119.    Submarine Telegraphy [Lecture at the Brit. Assoc. Meeting in
                             Dublin
                                         1857].

fx20. On the Calculation of Transcendents of the Form e~x                                                           dx.
                                                                           "

                                                                                                ;
                                                                                                         I
                             Quart.      of Math. pp. 316-320, 1857 Math, and Phys.

            Papers                   on  pp".  56-60.                        and    "Telegraph"                     (in
121. Articles                                  Thermomagnetism             1857.

                             Appendix). Nichol's Cyclopaedia,

1858.
122. The Conductivity of Samples of Copper Wire [note of expts.

           shown]. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. IV. pp. 185-186 [read Jan.

123.                            13, 1858].                                          a

                             Remarks on the Interior Melting of Ice. [In letter to Prof.
                               Stokes, Sec. R.S.] Roy. Soc. Proc. IX. pp. 141-143, 1857-
                               1859 [read Jan. 25, 1858]; Phil. Mag. xvi. pp. 303-304,
            Oct. 1858.
124. Intorno ad alcune richerche di elettrostatica [letter to Prof.

           P. Volpicelli]. Atti dell' Accademia Pontificia de' Nuovi

                             Lincei XI. pp. 177-185, 1857-1858 [read Mar.                                   7,   1858];
                             Nuovo Cimentovm. pp. 115-123, 1858.                                                a
125. On the Stratification of Vesicular Ice by Pressure. [In letter
           to Prof. Stokes, Sec. R.S.]. Roy. Soc. Proc. IX. pp. 209-
          213, 1857-1859 [read Apr. 22, 1858]; Phil. Mag. xvi. pp.
            463-466, Dec. 1858.
126. On the Thermal Effect of drawing out Film of Liquid [being            a

          an extract of two letters to P. Joule, F.R.S., dated Feb.
                                                                     ii.                                            J.
1127.                          and 1858]. Roy. Soc. Proc. IX. pp. 255-256, 1857-1859
                p.             [read June 10, 1858]; Phil. Mag. xvn. pp. 61-62, Jan. 1859.J.                             I. 2
                         ; 3,On Phenomena of Submerged Atlantic Cable. [Letter to P.
                               Joule, dated Sept. 25, 1858.] Manchester Phil. Soc. Proc.

                             pp. 60-62 [Oct.   I. 5,  1858].

1859.

128. On Atmospheric Electricity. [Letter to P. Joule.] Manchester
                             Phil. Soc. Proc. pp. 108-109 [Mar.            J.       1859]; E. and M.
                                                                                8,
                                                                               ;
129.                            art. xxi. pp.  3"1F1r-e3q1u2e.ncy."      Brit. Assoc. Report, 1859, pt ii.
                             On Electrical

                             26 E. and M. art. xvi. pp. 226-227.
30. Remarks on the Discharge of a Coiled Electric Cable. Brit.
                                                                         pp. 26-27 Edinb. New PhiL Jl.
                             Assoc. Report, 1859, pt.

                     BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                                      1237

       XI. pp. 112-113, 1 860 ; Math, and Phys. Papers II. art. Ixxx.

       pp. 129-130.
       On the Necessity for Incessant Recording, and for Simultaneous
131.
132.   Observations in Different Localities, to investigate Atmo
133.
       spheric Electricity. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1859, pt.                                    ;        pp. 27-

                                                                                                  ii.
       28 Edinb. New Phil. Jl. XI. pp. 108-1 10, 1860 E. and M.
       ;

                    i,

                                            I.
          art. xvi. pp. 227-229.
       On the Reduction of Periodical Variations of Underground

       Temperature, with Applications to the Edinburgh Observa
                                                                                            pp. 54-56 Math,
       tions. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1859, pt.                      ii.

                                                                                               ;

       and Phys. Papers HI. art. xciii. pp. 291-294.
                                                                  Electricity [Two Letters]. Man
       Apparatus for Atmospheric                                  pp. 151-153 [Oct 18, 1859], p.
         chester Phil. Soc. Proc.

           156 [Nov. 1859].
134. Recent Investigations of Le Verrier on the Motion of Mercury.

           Glas. Phil. Soc. Proc. iv. pp. 263-266 [read Dec. 14,

             1859].                                                                           Glas. Phil. Soc.
135. On Photographed Images of Electric Sparks.

       Proc. IV. pp. 266-267 [read Dec. 14, 1859].

1860.

1  36. On the Variation of the Periodic Times of the Earth and Inferior

       Planets, produced by Matter falling into the Sun. Glasg.

137.     Phil. Soc. Proc. IV. pp. 272-274                         [read Jan. 4, 1860].
       On Instruments and Methods                                  for observing Atmospheric
                                                                  Proc. IV. pp. 274-280 [read
         Electricity. Glasg. Phil. Soc.

           Jan. 4, 1860].
138. Analytical and Synthetical Attempts to ascertain the Cause of

           the Differences of Electric Conductivity discovered in Wires

       of nearly Pure Copper. Roy. Soc. Proc. X. pp. 300-309,
                                                                  1860]; Math, and Phys. Papers n.
       1859-1860 [read Feb.
1
               a

                                                  1
                                                              9,
       art. Ixxix. pp. 18-128.

   39. Measurement of the Electrostatic Force produced by a Daniell's
            Battery. Roy. Soc. Proc. x. pp. 319-326, 1859-1860 [read
           Feb. 23, 1860]; Phil. Mag. xx. pp. 233-239, Sept. 1860;
           E. and M. art. xviii. pp. 238-246.
140. Measurement of the Electromotive Force required to produce

             Spark in Air between Parallel Metal Plates at Different

       Distances.    Roy. Soc. Proc. X. pp. 326-338, 1859-1860

       [read Feb. 23, 1860]; Phil. Mag. XX. pp. 316-326, Oct.
       1860; E. and M. art. xix. pp. 247-259.
       On the Reduction of Observations of Underground Temperature,
141.
142.   with Application to Prof. Forbes's Edinburgh Observations
       and the continued Calton Hill Series. Edinb. Roy. Soc.

       Proc. IV. pp. 342-346 [read Apr. 30, 1860] Edinb. Roy. Soc.
                                                                  ;
                                                                                   ;

                                                                                           ;
       Trans. XXII. pp. 405-427, 1861 Phil. Mag. xxn. pp. 23-34,
                                                                                            Math, and Phys.
       July 1861, pp. 121-135, Aug. 1861

         Papers in. art. xciii. pp. 261-290.
       On Atmospheric Electricity. Roy. Instit Proc. in. pp. 277-290

1238 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

       [May 18, 1860] ; Annal. de Chimie vn. pp. 148-172, 1866 ;
       E. and M. art. xvi. pp. 208-226.

143. On the Importance of making Observations on Thermal
           Radiation during the coming Eclipse of the Sun [Abstract of
       Letter to the Editors dated June 5, 1860], Astron. Soc.
           Monthly Notices XX. pp. 317-318, 1860.
144. Thomson and Joule. -- On the Thermal Effects of Fluids in
       Motion. Roy. Soc. Proc. x. p. 502, 1859-1860 [read June
       7, 1860]; Math, and Phys. Papers I. art. xlix. p.
                                        Joule. -- On  the Thermal                    453.
145.   Thomson                   and    Changes of    Temperature        Effects of   Fluids in
          Motion                                                        experienced   by Bodies
                                :-- On

       moving through Air. Roy. Soc. Proc. x.                            p. 5 19     [Mreaatdh,  June
       21, 1860]; Phil. Trans, pp. 325-336,                                                       and
                                                                        1860;

           Phys. Papers I. art. xlix. pp. 400-414, p. 454.
146. Report of Committee appointed to prepare a Self-recording

           Atmospheric Electrometer for Kew, and Portable Apparatus

       for observing Atmospheric Electricity. Brit. Assoc. Report

       1860, pp. 44-45.
       Notes on Atmospheric Electricity. Brit. Assoc. Report 1860,
147.   pt. pp. 53-54; Phil. Mag. xx. pp. 360-363, Nov. 1860;
i148.
                    ii.E. and M. art. xxi. pp. 312-316.
       Velocity                 of Electricity. Nichol's
          1860;                 Math, and Phys. Papers     Cyclopaedia [second        edition],
                                                            n. art. Ixxxi. pp.       131-137;

           Baltimore Lectures, Appendix L. pp. 688-694, 1904.
149. Telegraph. Nichol's Cyclopedia [second edition], 1860; Math.

           and Phys. Papers II. art. Ixxxii. pp. 138-141.
 50. Atmospheric Electricity. Nichol's Cyclopaedia [second edition],

           1860; E. and M. art. xvi. pp. 192-208 Annal. de Chimie
          xi. pp. 86-106, 1877; Soc. Telegr. Engrs. Jl. HI. p. 13,
                                                           ii.
       1874-
151. Telegraph. Encyclopadia Britannica (eighth edition), 1860.                     ;

1861.                                                                                  ii.

                                                                                                               1,
                                                                                                                               ;
152. On the Measurement of Electric Resistance. Roy. Soc. Proc.
       XI. pp-313-328, 1860-1862 [read June 20, 1861]; Annal.
       de Chimie LXVII. pp. 501-506, 1863; Phil. Mag. xxiv. pp.

       149-162, Aug. 1862.
153. Physical Considerations regarding the Possible Age of the
       Sun's Heat. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1861, pt.
         Phil. Mag. xxiii.                                                           pp. 27-28

       Thomson and Joule.               --ppO. n15t8h-e16T0h,ermFeabl.    1862.  of Elastic  Fluids.
54.1                                                                    Effects
              a
155.                         ;Brit. Assoc.Report,--18O61n,pt.  pp. 83-84.        Discharge                                      of
       Thomson and               Jenkin.              the  True and False

       Coiled Electric Cable. Phil. Mag. xxii. pp. 202-21 Sept.

       1861 Math, and Phys. Papers II. art. Ixxxiii. pp. 142-152.

1862.

156. On the Convective Equilibrium of Temperature in the Atmo
           sphere. Manchester Phil. Soc. Proc. II. pp. 170-176, 1860-

       1862 [Jan. 21, 1862]; Manchester Phil. Soc. Mem. II. pp.

                           BIBLIOGRAPHY                                           1239

        125-131, 1865; Math, and Phys. Papers in. art. xcii. pp.

            255-260.
157. New Proof of Contact Electricity [Extract of Letter to President

           of Manchester Lit. and Phil. Soc.]. Manchester Phil. Soc.
          Proc. H. pp. 176-178, Jan. 21, 1862; E. and M. art xxii.

            pp. 317-318.
158. Observations on Atmospheric Electricity. Manchester Phil.

          Soc. Proc. II. pp. 204-207, 1860-1862 [March 4, 1862] ; E.
           and M. art. xvi. pp. 230-232.
159. On the Age of the Sun's Heat. Macmillan's Magazine v. pp.
           288-393, March 1862; Pop. Lect. I. pp. 349-368.
160. On a New Instrument for Measuring Electric Resistance in

1 6 1.    Absolute Units. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. v. pp. 167-168, 1864
162.      [read March 26, 1862].
        On the Rigidity of the Earth. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. v. pp.
           169-170 [read Mar. 26, 1862] ; Roy. Soc. Proc. XII. pp. 103-
           104, 1862-1863 [read May 15, 1862, abstract]; Phil. Trans.
          CLIII. pp. 573-582, 1863, appendix added Jan. 2, 1864;
          Math, and Phys. Papers in. art. xcv. pp.312-336; Phil. Mag.

          XXV. pp. 149-151, Feb. 1863; TandT', pp. 689-704.
        Note on Gravity and Cohesion. Edinb.Roy.Soc.Proc.lv. pp.

        604-606 [read Apr. 21, 1862]; Edinb. New Phil. Jl. XVI.
        pp. 146-148, 1862 ; Pop. Lect. I. pp. 59-63.
163. On the Secular Cooling of the Earth. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.
        iv. pp. 610-611         [read Apr. 28,  1862]; Edinb. Roy. Soc.
        Trans, xxin. pp.        157-170, 1864;  Phil. Mag. xxv. pp. 1-14,

        JMana.th,1a8n6d3;    Edinb. New   Phil. JL XVI.    pp. 151-152,                 1862;
                           Phys. Papers  III. art. xciv.  pp. 295-311;
        T, Appendix D.                                                                  T and

164. Discussion of H. C. Forde's Paper on "The Malta and
        Alexandria Submarine Telegraph Cable" [May 13 and 20,
                           Civ. Engrs. Proc.  XXI. pp.
165.       1862]; Inst.                       Thermal     535-536.                Fluids  in
        Thomson and        Joule. -- On the               Effects of
                                         xn. pp.
        Motion.     Roy.    Soc. Proc.              202 [read   June               19,  1862,
        abstract];   Phil.  Trans, pp.    579-589,     1862;   Math,              and   Phys.

166.       Papers  I. artxlix.  --pEpn.e4r1g5y-.431G, oodpp.W4o5r4d-4s5, 5.1862;  pp. 60 1-
        Thomson     and Tail.

        607 [Sept.]
167. Dynamical Problems regarding Elastic Spheroidal Shells and
        Spheroids of Incompressible Liquid. Roy. Soc. Proc. XII.

        pp. 274-275 [read       Nov.     27, 1862, abstract]; Phil. Trans.
        CLIII. pp. 583-616,      1863    ; Math, and Phys. Papers III. art.

            xcvi. pp. 35 1-394-          Force induced in the Earth's
1 68. Note on the Electromotive

        Crust by Variations of Terrestrial Magnetism [being a Note
        on Mr. B. Stewart's Paper on "The Nature of the Forces

        concerned in producing the greater Magnetic Disturbances"].ii.
        Phil. Trans. CLII. pt. pp. 637-638, 1862.

1240 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

1863.
169. A Note relative to the Mathematical Theory of the Trans

           mission of Signals through Submarine Cables [Appendix to

       F. Jenkin's Paper on "Experimental Researches on the Trans
       mission of Electric Signals through Submarine Cables"].
       Phil. Trans. CLII. pt.
1                                        pp. 1011-1017 [read Jan. 14,
                              p.
       1863].
                                                          6:
                                                        ii.

                                                                                                            ;

                                                                                            6,
70. On some Kinematical and Dynamical Theorems. Edinb. Roy.
       OnSoPcr.ofP. roTcy.ndv.all'psp."                 [read Apr.
171.                                     113-115, 1863  Dynamical                                                  1863].  Heat."
                                         Remarkson the                                                       Theory of

       [Letter to Phil. Mag. dated May 4, 1863]. Phil. Mag. xxv.
       p. 429, June 1863.
172. The Electric Telegraph Three Lectures at the Royal Institu
       tion on May 30, June and 13, 1863.
173. On the Result of Reductions of Curves obtained from the
           Self-recording Electrometer at Kew. Brit. Assoc. Report,

       1863,     27.
174. On Sound emitted by Air when suddenly subjected to
       Electric Force [Letter to Prof. Tail]. Manchester Phil. Soc.
       Proc. in. pp. 159-160 [Oct. 10, 1863] E. and M. art. xvii.

175.      pp. 236-238.                                  De la temperature
176.   Sur le refroidissement se'culaire du soleil.
177.   actuelle du soleil. De 1'origine et de la somme totale de

         la chaleur solaire. Les Mondes m. pp. 473-480, 1863.
       Note on two paragraphs of Mr. C. Chamber's paper on "The

          Nature of the Sun's Magnetic Action on the Earth." Phil.
         Trans. CLIII. pp. 515-516, 1863 [reed. Oct 28, 1863].
       On the Theory of Jones's Method of controlling Clocks by
         Electricity. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. iv. p. 334, Dec. 2, 1863,

       p. 335, Jan. 27, 1864. [Note only in Proc.].

1864.

178. On Centrobaric Bodies. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc v. pp. 190-191,
           1866 [read Mar. 7, 1864].

179. On the Elevation of the Earth's Surface Temperature pro
           duced by Underground Heat. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. V.
         pp. 200-201, 1866 [read Mar. 21, 1864].
80. On the Protection of Vegetation from Destructive Cold every
11
  8
                            6,

                                                  ;

                                                        A
                                                                                                                                                         2
                                                                                                                                                            1
       Night. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. v. pp. 203-204, 1866 [read
       Apr. 4, 1864] Pop. Lect. II. pp. 1-5.
1. On the Periodic Variations and the Secular Lowering of
       Terrestrial Temperature. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. iv. p. 338

       [Apr. 1864]. [Note only in Proc]                 "Sur la thermo-
       Red'pynoanmseiquaeux"  deux notes de M. Duprd
182.                          inseV&s dans les Comptes  Rendus, mars

       et sept. 12, 1864; Comp. Rend. LIX. pp. 665-666, pp.

       705-708, 1864.

1865.            of Joule's Paper on "                  Self-acting Apparatus for
183. Discussion

                           BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                          1241

       Steering Ships." Inst. of Engrs. in Scotland Trans, vin. pp.

184.      57 and 59 [Jan. 18, 1865].
185.   On the Defects, etc., of the Ordinary Electrometer and on

       Heterostatic Electrometers. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. v. p. 25,

         Jan. 25, 1865. [Note only in Proc.]
       On the Secular Variations of Terrestrial and Atmospheric

       Temperature.        Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. v. p. 27, Mar. 32,

           1865. [Note only in Proc.]                 Roy. Soc. Proc.
1 86. On the Elasticity and Viscosity of Metals.

       XIV. pp. 289-297, 1865 [read May 18, 1865]; Phil. Mag.
       xxx. pp. 63-71, July 1865.
187. On the Forces concerned in the Laying and Lifting of Deep-
       Sea Cables [Address delivered at the request of the Council,
       Dec.                         Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. v.
       1866;  18M, at1h8,6a5n].d  Phys. Papers n. art. Ixxxiv.  pp. 495-509,
                                                                pp. 153-167;
       Pop. Lect. ill. pp. 422-449.
1 88. On the Dynamical Theory of Heat. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. v.

            pp. 510-512, 1866 [read Dec. 18, 1865].
189. The "Doctrine of Uniformity" in Geology briefly refuted.

           Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. v. pp. 512-513, 1866 [read Dec. 1 8,
            1865] ; Pop. Lect. II. pp. 6-9.
1866.

190. On Electrically impelled and Electrically controlled Clocks.
           Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. vi. pp. 61-64, '868 [read Jan. 24,

             1866].
191. On a Land Standard Electrometer and a Marine and Land

           Telegraphic Testing Electrometer. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc.

           vi. pp. 64-65, 1868 [read Jan. 24, 1866].
192. Note on Mr. C roll's Paper "On the Physical Cause of the

           Submergence and Emergence of Land during the Glacial

       Epoch." Phil. Mag. XXXI. pp. 305-306, Apr. 1866.

193. The Rede Lecture, Cambridge. On the Dissipation of Energy
         [May 23, 1866]. See Appendix (taken from this) republished
         in Pop. Lect. vol. pp. 65-72. [See No. 191.]
       On the Observations and Calculations required to find the
         Tidal Retardation of the Earth's Rotation [part of the Rede
194.                       6,
                                       1 ii.
       Lecture at Cambridge, May 23,       8,18M6a6t]h. ,Phil. Mag. xxxi.
       pp. 533-537 (Supplement), 1866.
                                                                                              2and Phys. Papers
                                                                                          U
1867.  in. art. xcv. pp. 337-341. [See No. 190.]

195. The Atlantic Telegraph.         Good Words, 1867, pp. 43-49

           [Jan.].                 Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. vi. pp. 94-105,
196. On Vortex Atoms.                 1867]; Phil. Mag. xxxiv. pp. 15-24,

           1869 [read Feb.         Phil. Soc. Proc. vi. pp. 197-206, 1868
          July 1867; Glasg.

       [read Mar.          1867].
197. On the Rate of a Clock or Chronometer as influenced by the
           Mode of Suspension. Inst. of Engrs. in Scotland, Trans, x.

VOL. II

1242 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

      pp. 139-151, 1867 [Feb. 27, 1867]; Pop. Lectii. pp.

198.     360-386.
      On a New Form of the Dynamic Method for Measuring the

        Magnetic Dip. Manchester Phil. Soc. Proc. VI. pp. 157-158,

        1867 [read Apr. 16, 1867]; Manchester PhiL Soc. Mem. in.

         pp. 291-292, 1868.

199.  On Vortex Motion. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. VI. p. 167 [read
200.  Apr. 29, 1867 (title only)]; Edinb. Roy. Soc. Trans. XXV.
      pp. 217-260, 1869 [§§ 1-59 recast and augmented, Aug. 28 to
         Nov. 12, 1868].
      On the Nature and      Motions of Vortex  Filaments [Abstract of

      Letter to Pro£ Tail, May 17, 1867]. Phil. Mag. xxxni.
            pp. 511-512 (Supplement), 1867.
201. On a Self-acting Apparatus for Multiplying and Maintaining

      Electric Charges, with Applications to illustrate the Voltaic

      Theory. Roy. Soc. Proc. XVI. pp. 67-72, 1862 [read June
      20, 1867]; Phil. Mag. xxxiv. pp. 391-396, Nov. 1867;
      Annal. de Chimie XIII. pp. 446-448, 1868 ; E. and M. art.

202.    xxiii. pp. 319-325.  on Standards  of Electrical Resistance                                           :--
      Report of Committee

      Drawn up by Sir W. Thomson, Report on Electrometers

      and Electrostatic Measurements. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1867,

      pp. 489-512; E. and M. art. xx. pp. 260-286.

203. On a Series of Electrometers for Comparable Measurements

      through great range. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1867, p. 16.
                                                        Brit Assoc.
204. On a Self-acting Electrostatic Accumulator.
           Report, 1867, p. 16.

205. On a Uniform Electric Current Accumulator. Brit. Assoc.
          Report xxxvn., 1867, pt. ii. pp. 16-17 ; Phil. Mag. XXXV.
      pp. 62-64, Jan. 1868; Joum.de Phys. I. (2nd series), pp.
      31-32, 1882 ; E. and M. art. xxiii. pp. 325-327.
      On Volta-convection by Flame. Brit. Assoc. Report xxxvu.,
206.

      1867, pt.  pp. 17-18; Phil. Mag. xxxv. pp. 64-66, Jan.
      ;

               ii.
                                                ii.

                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                           ;
      1868 Annal. de Chimie XIV. pp. 487-488, 1868 E. and M.

      art. xxiii. pp. 328-329.
      On Electric Machines founded on Induction and Convection.
207.
208.  Brit Assoc. Report, 1867, pt.        pp. 18-19 Phil. Mag. XXXV.

      pp. 66-73, Jan- 1868; Annal. de Chimie xiv. pp. 488-493,
      1868; E. and M. art xxiii. pp. 330-337.
      Plant Protection. The Gardeners' Chronicle and Agricultural

      Gazette, Nov. 30, 1867.

1868.                           ;

209. On Geological Time. Glasg. Geol. Soc. Trans, in. pp. 1-28,
           1871 [read Feb. 27, 1868] Pop. Lect. II. pp. 10-64.

210. On New Electrical Instruments for Delicate Testing Purposes,

      for Use at Sea. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. v. p. 414 [Mar. 18,
           1868]. [Note only in Proc.]
211. On Mr. C. F. Varley's Reciprocal Electrophorus.                                                          Phil. Mag.

                         BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                          1243

      xxxv. pp. 287-289, April 1868; E. and M. art. xxiii. pp.

212.     337-339-
213.  Sketch of Proposed Plan of Procedure in Tidal Observations

        and Analysis. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1 868, pp. 490-505 ; Pop.
        Lect in. pp. 209-223.
      On a New Form of Centrifugal Governor. Inst. of Engrs. in
        Scotland, Trans. XII. pp. 67-69, and 70-71, 1869 [Nov. 25,

             1868].
1869.

214. Determination of the Distribution of Electricity on a Circular
           Segment of Plane or Spherical Conducting Surface, under
           any given Influence. E. and M. art. xv. pp. 178-191, Jan.

215.     1869.                         " Elasticity viewed as a Mode of Motion,"
      Lecture at Greenock,

           Jan. 1869.
216. On the Fracture of Brittle and Viscous Solids by "Shearing."

      Roy. Soc. Proc. xvn. pp. 312-313, 1869 [read Feb. 25,
      1869]; Phil. Mag. xxxvin. pp. 71-73, July 1869.
      Note on                            Theory of the Sun's Heat                            [after Prof.
217.     Grant's  thpeapeMretoenori"c  The Physical Constitution of                          the Sun "].

      Glasg.      Phil. Soc. Proc. vn. pp. 111-112              [Mar. 24, 1869];
      Glasg.      Geol. Soc. Trans, in. pp. 239-240,             1871; Pop. Lect.

218.    n. pp. 127-131. [See No. 215.]
219.  Geological Dynamics. Glasg. Geol. Soc. Trans. III. pp. 215-
      240, 1871 [read Apr. 5, 1869]; Geol. Mag. vi. pp. 472-476,
         1869; Pop. Lect. n. pp. 73-127. [See No. 214].
      On a New Astronomical Clock, and a Pendulum Governor for
      Uniform Motion. Roy. Soc. Proc. xvn. pp. 468-470, 1869
      [read June 10, 1869]; Phil. Mag. xxxvin. pp. 393-395,
      Nov. 1869; Brit. Assoc. Report, 1876, pt.
                                                              ;                                pp. 49-52
                                                                                            ;

                                                                                         ii.
      [with  na,lte1r8a7ti7on[switahndalteardadtiiotinosns]and  Nature xv.                   pp. 227-229,
      Jan.                                                      additions]                   Pop. Lect. II.

             PP- 387-394-
220. On the Effect of Changes of Temperature on the Specific
      Inductive Capacity of Dielectrics. Roy. Soc. Proc. xvn.

               470 [read June 10, 1869, title only].
221. Discussion of Gaudard's Paper on "The Present State of
      p.

                     J.

      Knowledge as to the Strength and Resistance of Materials."
      Inst Civ. Engrs. Proc. XXIX. pp. 74-75 [Nov. 16, 23, 30,

             1869}                     Meteorological           Blockade.                      Nature
1870.                                                                                          a
222. Dr. Balfour Stewart's                                                                                   I.

223.    p. 306, Jan. 20, 1870.;
224.  On the Forces experienced by Solids Immersed in moving
                                       a
         Liquid. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. VII. pp. 60-63, 1872 [read
         Feb. 7, 1870] E. and M. art.xli. pp. 567-571.                                                 7,
      On the Equilibrium of Vapour at Curved Surface of Liquid.
        Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. vii. pp. 63-68, 1872 [read Feb.

1244 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

225.      1870] ; Phil. Mag. XLII. pp. 448-452, December 1871 ; Pop.
          Lect. i. pp. 64-72.
226.   On the Size of Molecules [Extract of a Letter to the Society
227.     dated Mar. 21, 1870]. Manchester Phil. Soc. Proc. IX. pp.
          136-141 [Mar. 22, 1870]; Les Mondes xxil. pp. 701-708,
          1870, xxvn. pp. 616-623, 1872; Annal. Chem. Pharm.

         CLVII. pp. 54-66, 1871 ; Amer. Jl. Sci. L. (2nd ser.) pp.
          258-261, 1870; Nature II. pp. 56-57, May 19, 1870.
       On the Size of Atoms. Nature I. pp. 551-553, Mar 31, 1870;
         Amer. Sci. L. pp. 38-44, 1870.
       Reports of Committee for the Purpose of Promoting the
         Extension, Improvement, and Harmonic Analysis of Tidal
          Observations. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1870, pp. 120-151, and
       p.

                Jl.

                                           ;
             1876, pp. 275-307.               Brit. Assoc. Report, 1870,
228. On a New Absolute Electrometer.

229.         26 [title only] E. and M. art. xx. pp. 287-310.
       On the Attractions and Repulsions due to Vibration observed

         by Guthrie and Schellbach. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. VII. pp.

       401-404, 1871 [read Dec. 14, 1870]; E. and M. art xli.

       pp. 574-578.

1871.
230. Modification of Wheatstone's Bridge to find the Resistance of
               Galvanometer-coil from a single Deflection of its own
       a

       Needle. Roy. Soc Proc. xix.            253, 1871 [read Jan. 19,
                                              p.
                                                                          ;
       1871]; Phil. Mag. XLI. pp. 537-538 (Supplement), 1871.
       On a Constant Form of Daniells Battery. Roy. Soc. Proc.
231.
       XIX. pp. 253-259, 1871 [read Jan. 19, 1871] Phil. Mag. XLI.
       pp. 538-543 (Supplement), 1871; Nature in. pp. 350-351,
          Mar. 2, 1871.
232.   On the Determination of a Ship's Place from Observations of

         Altitude. Roy. Soc. Proc. XIX. pp. 259-266, 1871 [read

         Jan. 19, 1871].                                                              Letter from Sir W. T. to
       On Approach Caused by Vibration
233.                                          ;
234.
                                                                        [a

                                                                                     ;
          Prof. Guthrie, communicated by Sir W. T.]. Roy. Soc.
         Proc. xix. pp. 271-273, 1871 [read Jan. 26, 1871]; PhiL
         Mag. XLI. pp. 423-429, June 1871 Annal. de Chimie xxv.
         pp. 205-206, 1872 E. and M. art. xli. pp. 571-574.
       A Hint to Electricians. Nature in. pp. 248-249, Jan. 26,

235.      1871.
236.   On the Motion of Free Solids through a Liquid. Edin. Roy.

         Soc. Proc. vil. pp. 384-390, 1872 [read Feb. 20, 1871].
          Baltimore Lectures, Appendix G. pp. 584-590, 1904.
       Amended Rule for working out Sumner's Method of Finding
         a Ship's Place. Roy. Soc. Proc. xix. pp. 524-526, 1871

237.      [read June 15, 1871].                                                           Brit. Assoc.
       Address to the British Association at Edinburgh.                                 pp. 262-270,
                                                                                        pp. 269-294,
       Report XLI., 1871, pp. Ixxxiv.-cv. Nature iv.
             3,
                                                                              ;
       Aug.  1871; Amer. Jl. Sci. n. (3rd ser.),

      BIBLIOGRAPHY                                        1245

238.     1871; Math, and Phys. Papers II. art. Ixvi. pp. 25-27 ;
         Pop. Lect. II. pp. 132-205.
      On the General Canonical Form of a Spherical Harmonic of
        the nth Order. Brit. Assoc. Report XLI., 1871, pt. ii. pp

239.     25-26.
240.
      Ripples and Waves [Extract from a Letter to Mr. W. Froude].
241.    Nature v. pp. 1-3, Nov. 2, 1871.

      Hydrokinetic Solutions and Observations. Phil. Mag. XLII.
        pp. 362-377, Nov. 1871 ; Baltimore Lectures, Appendix G,

         pt. v. pp. 598-601, 1904.

      Inverse Problems. E. and M. art. xxviii. pp. 451-462, Nov.

242.     1871.
243.  On Vortex Motion. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. VII. pp. 576-577,

         1872 [read Dec. 18, 1871].
      On the Ultramundane Corpuscles of Le Sage, also on the

         Motion of Rigid Solids in a Liquid Circulating Irrotationally
        through Perforations in them or in a Fixed Solid. Edinb.

           Roy. Soc. Proc. v1I. pp. 577-589, 1872 [read Dec. 18,
            1871]; Phil. Mag. XLV. pp.321-345, May 1873.
1872.

244. The Rigidity of the Earth. Letter to Nature v. pp. 223-224,

245.      Jan. 1 8, 1872.
246.  On the Mechanical Values of Distributions of Matter, and of

        Magnets. E. and M. art. xxvi. pp. 432-443, Jan. 1872.
      Hydrokinetic Analogy. E. and M. art. xxvii. pp. 444-450,

           Jan. 1872.
247. On the Internal Fluidity of the Earth. Nature v. pp. 257-
      259, Feb. 1, 1872.
248. Remarks on Contact-electricity.  Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. v1I.

           p. 648 [read Feb. 19, 1872, title only].       E.
249. General Hydrokinetic Analogy for Induced Magnetism.
      and M. art. xlii. pp. 579-587, Feb. 1872.
250. On the Motion of Rigid Solids in a Liquid Circulating
           Irrotationally through Perforations in them or in any Fixed

251.    Solid. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. v1I. pp. 668-682, 1872 [read
         Mar. 4, 1872].
      Magnetic Permeability, and Analogues in Electrostatic Induc
        tion, Conduction of Heat, and Fluid Motion. E. and M.

252.    art. xxxi. pp. 482-486, Mar. 1872.
253.  General Problem of Magnetic Induction. E. and M. art. xL

        pp. 544-566, Mar. 1872.                    E. and M.
      Inductive Susceptibility of a Polar Magnet.

      art. xxxix. pp. 543-544, Mar. 1872.
254. Diagrams of Lines of Force, to Illustrate Magnetic Permeability.
          E. and M. art. xxxi i. pp. 486-493, May 29, 1872.

255. On the Simultaneous Reduction of two Polynomial Quadratics
           to Sums of Squares. Lond. Math. Soc. Proc. IV. p. 1 20

      [read June 13, 1872],

1246 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

256.   On the Identification of Lights at Sea. Brit. Assoc. Report,
257.
258.      1872, pt. ii. p. 251.                          Brit. Assoc.
       On the Use of Steel-Wire for Deep-Sea Soundings.

          Report, 1872, pt. ii. p. 251.
       On a New Form of Joule's Tangent Galvanometer [original

         communication]. Soc. Telegr. Engrs. Journ. I. pp. 392-394,

             1872-1873.
259. On the Measurement of Electrostatic Capacity [original

           communication]. Soc. Telegr. Engrs. Joum. I. pp. 394-398,

       1872-1873.
       Tests of Battery [1873] [original communication].
260.                                                                                                        Soc.
261.
       Telegr. Engrs. Journ. I. pp. 399-403, 1872-1873.
       Tray Battery for the Siphon Recorder [original communica

           tion]. Soc. Telegr. Engrs. Journ. I. pp. 403-407, 1872-1873.
1873.

262. Note on Homocheiral and Heterocheiral Similarity. Edinb.

263.     Roy. Soc. Proc. VHI. p. 70 [read Feb. 17, 1873, title only].
264.   On Vortex Motion. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. vm. p. 80 [read

         Mar. 3, 1873, title only].
       On Signalling through Submarine Cables, illustrated by Signals

         Transmitted through a Model Submarine Cable, exhibited
         by Mirror Galvanometer and by Siphon Recorder. Inst. of

       Engrs. in Scotland    Trans. XVI. pp.            119-120, 1873 [Mar. 18,
       1873]; Math, and      Phys. Papers II.            art. Ixxxv. pp. 168-172.

265.   On the Rope-Dynamometer, with Application to Deep-Sea

       Sounding by Steel Wire. Inst. of Engrs. in Scotland Trans.

           XVI. pp. 121-135, 1873 [Mar. 18, 1873].
266. Lighthouses of the Future. Good Words, 1873, pp. 217-224

           [March].
267. A New Method of determining the Material and Thermal

           Diffusivities of Fluids. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. vm. p. 229

       [read Dec. 22, 1873, title only].

1874.
268. Obituary Notice of Archibald Smith. Roy. Soc. Proc. xxa.
         pp. i.-xxiv. [dated Jan. 4, 1874] ; Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. vm.
269.     pp. 282-288 [read Feb. 2, 1874]. [Abridged (by direction
         of the author) from Proc. R.S.]
       Inaugural Address to the Society of Telegraph Engineers.
       Soc. Telegr. Engrs. Joum. in. pp. 1-15 [Jan. 14, 1874];
       Telegraphic Journal II. pp. 67-70, Jan. 15, 1874; Nature
       IX. pp. 269-271, Feb. 5, 1874; Pop. Lect. II. pp. 206-237.
       The     Mariner's                                      Good Words, 1874,
270.           69-72 [Jan.]  ComPoppa.ssLec[t.Pairllt.
271.      pp.                                            228.
                                                        on the Earth's Rotation
                             ;
                                        ;

                                                        p. I.]

                                                                                                        5,
       Influence of Geological Changes

       [Presidential Address]. Glasg. Geol. Soc. Proc. iv. pp. 311-
           313 [Feb. 12, 1874] Nature IX. pp. 345-346, Mar. 1874.
272. The Kinetic Theory of the Dissipation of Energy. Edinb. Roy.

       Soc. Proc. vm. pp. 325-334, 1875 [read Feb. 16, 1874];

                       BIBLIOGRAPHY                                        1247

       Nature IX. pp. 441-444, Apr. 9, 1874; Phil. Mag. XXXIII.

       pp. 291-299, Mar. 1892.
       On a New Form of Mariner's Compass. Edinb. Roy. Soc.
273.     Proc. VHI. p. 363 [read Mar. 16, 1874, title only].
274.
275.   On Deep-Sea Sounding by Pianoforte Wire. Glasg. Phil. Soc.
         Proc. ix. pp. 1 1 1-117, 1875 [read Mar. 18, 1874].

       On Deep-Sea Sounding by Pianoforte Wire. Soc. Telgr. Engrs.
         Journ. in. pp. 206-219, 1874 [Apr. 22, 1874], pp. 220-221
         and pp. 222-224 ; Appendix, pp. 226-228 ; Van Nostrand's
       Engin. Mag. XI. pp. 6-13, 1874; Franklin Instil. Jl. LXVIII.
       pp. 1-4, July 1874 ; Pop. Lect. ill. pp. 337-376.
276. On the Perturbations of the Compass produced by the Rolling
       of the Ship. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1874, pt- »· P- 32 [title
       only]; Nature X. pp. 388-389, Sept. 10, 1874; Phil. Mag.

       XLVIII. pp. 363-369, Nov. 1874.
277. On Improvements in the Mariner's Compass [title only]. Brit.
       Assoc. Report, 1874, pt- "· P-23I.
278. Note on Mr. Gore's Paper on Electrotorsion.                 Phil. Trans.

       CLXIV. pp. 560-562, 1874.

1875.

279.   Exhibited and Described his Tide Calculating Machine, also
280.
       his Improved Tide-Gauge ; he also described certain

       Capillary Phenomena, with Experiments. Edinb. Roy. Soc.

          Proc.  vin.  "Tp.h4e45Ti[dJaens."  4, 1875].  Science  Lectures  Associa
       Lecture     on                        (Glasgow

281.     tion) in Glasgow City Hall, Feb. 3, 1875. Reported in
          "Glasgow Herald," Feb. 4, 1875; Extract printed in Pop.
         Lect. in. pp. 191-202.
       On the Oscillation of a System of Bodies with Rotating

282.     Portions. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. vm. p. 490 [read Feb. 1 5,
          1875, title only].
       Diagrams in Illustration of the Capillary Surfaces of Revolu

         tion. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. vin. p. 500 [exhibited Mar. i,

             1875].
283. Vibrations and Waves in a Stretched Uniform Chain of

           Symmetrical Gyrostats. London Math. Soc. Proc. VI. pp.

             190-194, 1874-1875 [read Apr. 8, 1875].
284. On Tides. Roy. Instil. Proc. vn. pp. 447-448, 1875 [Apr. 9,

285.      1875]-  Sir W.,  and  Perry, J. --On          the  Capillary     Surface  of
286.   Thomson,

       Revolution. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. vin. p. 520 [read Apr.
       19, 1875, title only].
       On the Oscillation of a System of Bodies with Rotating
       Portions. Part II. Vibrations of a Stretched String of

       Gyrostats (Dynamics of Faraday's Magneto-optic Discovery)
       with experimental Illustrations. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. Vin.

           p. 521 [read Apr. 19, 1875, title only].
287. On the Theory of the Spinning-Top, with experimental

1248 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

      Illustrations.   Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. vm. p. 521 [read

      Apr. 19, 1875, title only].

288.  Electrodynamic Qualities of Metals (Continued from PhiL
289.    Trans, for June 15, 1857). Part vi. Effects of Stress on
         Magnetization ; Part vii. Effects of Stress on the Magnetiza
      tion of Iron, Nickel, and Cobalt. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXIII. pp.
      445-446, 1875 [read May 27, 1875]; xxvn. PP- 439-443,
      1878 [read May 23, 1878,                                          Phil. Trans. CLXVI.
      pp. 693-713, 1877; CLXX.                   abstract];              1880; Math, and
                                                 pp. 55-85,

      Phys. Papers II. art. xci. pp. 332-353, pp. 401-403 ; H.
      artxcL pp. 358-395, pp. 403-407.
      Electrolytic Conduction in Solids. First Example, Hot Glass.

      Roy. Soc. Proc. XXIII. pp. 463-464, 1875 [read June 10,

290.     1875].
291.  Effects of Stress on Inductive Magnetism in Soft Iron
292.
293.  (Preliminary Notice). Roy. Soc. Proc. XXIII. pp. 473-476,
      1875 [read June 10, 1875]; Math, and Phys. Papers n.
         art. xci. pp. 353-357-
      General Integration of Laplace's Differential Equation of the

        Tides. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1875, pt. ii. P- 23 [title only];
        Phil. Mag. L. (series 4), pp. 388-402, Nov. 1875.
      On Laplace's Process for Determining an Arbitrary Constant

      in the Integration of his Differential Equation for the Semi-

      Diurnal Tide. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1875, pt. p. 23 [title
      only].                                                  J.-
                                                                                   ii.
      On the Integration of Linear Differential Equations with
                                                                                                    1
      Rational Coefficients.                     Brit. Assoc. Report, 1875, pt ii.                       1,

294.     p. 23 [title only].
295.  On some Effects of Laplace's Theory of Tides. Brit. Assoc.
296.
297.     Report, 1875, pt. ii- P- 23 [title only].
      On the Effect of Stress on the Magnetism of Soft Iron. Brit.

         Assoc. Report, 1875, pt- "· P- 29 [title only].
      On Machine for the Calculation of the Tides. Brit. Assoc.
      a
                    ii.
                             p.

                                   ii.
                                             p.
         Report, 1875, pt.                        253 [title  only].    Methods      of giving
      Thomson, Sir W., and                     Hopkinson,        -- On

      Distinctive Characters to Lighthouses. Brit. Assoc. Report,

      1875, pt.        253 [title only].

298.  On an Alleged Error in Laplace's Theory of the Tides.                                                  Phil.
299.
300.    Mag. L.   pp.  "22O7s-c2i4ll2a,tioSnespt.of18th7e5.   First  Species  "  in  Laplace's
      Note on    the

      Theory of the Tides. Phil. Mag. L. pp. 279-284, Oct. 1875.
      On Navigation, Lecture in City Hall, Glasgow, Nov.
                                                                                                             1875.
      Pop. Lect. in. pp. 1-138; Nature xv. pp. 403 - 404, Mar.

      8,
              1877.
301.  Vortex Statics. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. IX. pp. 59-73, 1878
302.
        [Dec. 20, 1875, abstract]; Phil. Mag. x. pp. 97-109, Aug.
         1880.
      Instructions for the Observation of Atmospheric Electricity for

               BIBLIOGRAPHY                                      1249

       the use of the Arctic Expedition of 1875. In the Manual
       of the Natural History, Geology, and Physics of Greenland,

       prepared for the use of the Arctic Expedition of 1875,

       under direction of the Arctic Committee of the Royal Society.

       London, 1875, 8vo. pp. 20-24.

1876.

303. On Two-dimensional Motion of Mutually Influencing Vortex
           Columns, and on Two-dimensional Approximately Circular

304.     Motion of a Liquid. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. IX. p. 98 [read
         Jan. 3, 1876, title only].
       On an Instrument for Calculating (J<^(x)\j/(x)dx), the Integral
         of the Product of two given Functions. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXIV.

305.     pp. 266-268, 1876 [read Feb. 3, 1876].
306.   Mechanical Integration of the Linear Differential Equations of

         the Second Order with Variable Coefficients. Roy. Soc.
         Proc. xxiv. pp. 269-271, 1876 [read Feb. 3, 1876].
       Mechanical Integration of the General Linear Differential
         Equation of any Order with Variable Coefficients. Roy.

           Soc. Proc. XXIV. pp. 271-275, 1876 [read Feb. 3, 1876].
307. An Application of Prof. James Thomson's Integrator to

           Harmonic Analyses of Meteorological, Tidal, and other

       Phenomena, and to the Integration of Differential Equations.

       Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. IX. p. 138 [read Mar. 6, 1876, title

       only].

308. On the Vortex Theory of Gases, of the Condensation of Gases
           on Solids, and of the Continuity between the Gaseous and

       Liquid State of Matter. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. IX. p. 144
          [read Apr. 3, 1876, title only].
309.   On Thermodynamic Motivity. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. IX. p.
                                                                 Edinb. Roy. Soc. Trans,
       x1x44vm[r.eadppA. p7r4.13-7, 441,876,18ti7tl9e;  only];   Mag. vn. pp. 348-352,
                                                          Phil.

       May 1879; Journ.de Phys. vin. p. 316, 1879.
310. Electrical Measurement.  [Lecture before the Section of

       Mechanics at the Conferences held in connection with the

       Special Loan Collection of Scientific Apparatus at the South

       Kensington Museum, May 17, 1876]. Pop. Lect. I. pp.

311.      423-454-
       Presidential Address to the Mathematical and Physical Science

         Section of the British Association at Glasgow, Sept. 7 :--

         Review of Evidence Regarding the Physical Condition of the

       Earth ; its Internal Temperature ; the Fluidity or Solidity of its

       Interior Substance ; the Rigidity, Elasticity, Plasticity of its

       External Figure ; and the Permanence or Variability of its

       Period and Axis of Rotation. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1876,

       pt. ii. pp. 1-12; Nature xiv. pp. 426-431, Sept. 14, 1876 ;
       Archives Sci. Phys. Nat LVII. pp. 138-161, 1876; Amer.

       Jl.Sci.xiL pp. 336-354, 1876; Math, and Phys. Papers in.

       art. xcv. pp. 320-335 ; Pop. Lect. II. pp. 238-272.

1250 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

312. On the Precessional Motion of a Liquid. Brit. Assoc. Report,
                           pp. 33-35; Nature XV. pp. 297-298, Feb.
       1876, pt.  ii. ii.                                                                           ii.
                                                                                                          1,
       1877-
313. Secular Illustration of the Laws of the Diffusion of Liquids.

       Brit. Assoc. Report, 1876, pt.                        p. 35 [title only].
                                a ii.

                                             3
                                              ii. 5

                                                     ii.
314. On a New Case of Instability of Steady Motion. Brit. Assoc.

           Report, 1876, pt.         p. [title only].
315. On the Nutation of              Solid Shell containing Liquid. Brit.

       Assoc. Report, 1876, pt.            p. 35 [title only].

316. On Compass Correction in Iron Ships. Brit. Assoc. Report,

       1876, pt.           p. 45 [title only].

317. Effects of Stress on the Magnetization of Iron.                           Brit. Assoc.

       Report, 1876, pt.        ii.
                                                          a
                                     p. 45 [title only].
318. On Contact Electricity. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1876, pt.                                         p.

319.      45 [title only].aa
320.   On Practical Method of Tuning Major Third. Brit. Assoc.

          Report, 1876, pt. ii. p. 48 [title only]. [See No. 342.]
       On New Form of Astronomical Clock with Free Pendulum

         and Independently Governed Uniform Motion for Escapement-

       wheel. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1876, pt.                 ;          pp. 49-52.

321. Physical Explanation of the Mackerel Sky. Brit. Assoc.     ii.
       Report, 1876, pt.                                               a
                                ii.        54 [title only] Symon's Meteor. Mag.
                                       p.

       XI. p. 131, 1876; Annee Sc. Industr. xxI. pp. 53-54, 1877.
322. On Navigational Deep-Sea Soundings in Ship moving at
       High Speed. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1876, pt.
                                                                          ii.  p. 54 [title

       only].

323. On Naval Signalling. Brit. Assoc. Report, 876, pt. ii. p. 2331

       [title only].

1877.
324. Geological Climate. Glasg. Geol. Soc. Trans, v. pp. 238-250
           [Feb. 22, 1877] Pop. Lect. II. pp. 273-298.
325. On Compass Adjustment on the Clyde. Inst. of Engrs. and;

       Shipbuilders in Scotland Trans. XX. pp. 143-144 [Apr. 24,

326.      1877].
327.   Remarks on the Glasgow Philosophical Society's Memorials

         and Petitions of January 1877, to the Lord Chancellor and

         to the two Houses of Parliament, regarding Patent Law

         Amendment. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. X. pp. 269-273, 1877.
       On the Effect of Transverse Stress on the Magnetic Sus

         ceptibility of Iron. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1877, pt. p. 37
                                ii.
          [title only].               p.
       Thomson, Sir                                                              ii.
                                                                                                p.

                                                                                             ii.
328.                       W.,  and  Evans, Capt. -- On      the          Tides                   of Port

       Louis, Mauritius, and Freemantle, Australia. Brit. Assoc.

       Report, 1877, pt.                   40 [title only].

329.   Solutions of Laplace's Tidal Equation for certain special Types
330.   of Oscillation. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1877, pt.
                                                                                    43 [title

       only].

       Diurnal and Semi-diurnal Harmonic Constituents of the

                         BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                                                     1251

       Variation of Barometric Pressure. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1877,

331.      pt. p. 43 [title only].a ii.                                                                                    Brit.
332.   On a Marine Azimuth Mirror and its Adjustments.
333.
334.      Assoc. Report, 1877, pt. ii.  a p.  43 [title only].
       On the Possibility of Life on          Meteoric Stone falling on the
335.
       Earth. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1877, pt. ii.            43 [title only].
                                                            p.
       On Navigation Sounding Machine for Use at Full Speed.     ii.
                                                                           ii.
       Brit. Assoc. Report, 1877, pt.   ii.   p. 218 [title only].

       On an Improved Method of Recording the Depth in Flying

       Soundings. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1877, pt.                                                    p. 218 [title

       only].

       On the Importance of giving Distinctive Character to the
                                        a

       Needles Light. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1877, pt.                                                p. 218

             [title only].
336. On the Mariner's Compass, with Correctors for Iron Ships.
       Brit. Assoc. Report, 1877, pt.
                                        ii.                 [title only].
                                              p.

                                                   21
                                                         8

337. Rapports sur les Machines Magne'to-e'lectriques Gramme

       [pre'sente'es  a  l'Exposition de Philadelphie]. Journ. de

       Phys. VI. pp. 240-242, Aug. 1877.
338. On the Resonance of Cavities. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. XI.
       pp. 1-2 [read Nov. 21, 1877, abstract].
1878.

339. Discussion of Higgs' and Brittle's Paper on "Some Recent
       Improvements in Dynamo-Electric Apparatus." Inst. Civ.

           Engrs. Proc. LI pp. 81-83, 1878 [Jan. 22, 1878]. .
340. On Compass Adjustment in Iron Ships, and on a New Sounding
                      ;

                             I.

                                                                                       ;
                                                                                         p. ;
                                                                                                4,
       Apparatus. Nature XVII. pp. 331-334, Feb. 21; pp. 352-
       354, Feb.28; pp. 387-388, March 14, 1878 United Service
       Instit. Journ. XXII. pp. 91-114, 1879 [Feb.
                                                                                                    1878, with

       Appendix] Pop. Lect. 1II. p. 228, p. 322, 329, p. 377.
341. The Internal Condition of the Earth as to Temperature,
          Fluidity, and Rigidity. Glasg. Geol. Soc. Trans. VI. pp. 38-
342.     49, 1882 [read Feb. 14, 1878]; Pop. Lect. II. pp. 299-318.
       On Beats of Imperfect Harmonies. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. IX.

         pp. 602-612 [read Apr. 1878] Pop. Lect. II. pp. 395-417.
         [See No. 319.]
       On Vortex Vibrations, and on Instability of Vortex Motions.
343.                             1,
       Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. IX.       p.

                                                   ;
                                                                                       2,
                                        613 [read Apr. 15, 1878, title

       only].
344. Floating Magnets. Nature xvIII. pp. 13-14, May
                                                                                                    1878.
345. Harmonic Analyzer.  Roy. Soc. Proc. xxvII. pp. 371-373,

           1878 [May 9, 1878].
346. The Effects of Stress on the Magnetization of Iron, Cobalt, and
       Nickel. Roy. Instit. Proc. VIII. pp. 591-593, 1879 [May 10,

347.      1878].
       On the Effect of Stress on the Magnetization of Iron, Nickel,

       and Cobalt. Phys. Soc. Proc. 1II.        (proc.) [May                                                              1878,
               ;
                                                  p.

                                                                 p.
                                                                              3

                                                              I

                                                                                                                 1
                                                                                                                      1,
       title only] Nature xvIII.        215, June o, 1878.

                       LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

348. A Mechanical Illustration of the Vibrations of a Triad of
               Columnar Vortices. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. IX. p. 660 [read
               May 20, 1878, title only].
                                                                                      A Fragment.
349.  Problems Relating to        yUenardserbgerfoouren--d Tkeemptpebraactukref.or
        [Written eighteen                                                             time to solve

               two parts which have not been done.] Phil. Mag. V. pp. 370-
               374, May 1878; Journ. de Phys. vn. pp. 397-402, 1878;
         Amer.         of Science XVI. pp. 132-135, 1878.
      On the   i,
                        Jl.
         Brass.
                                     ;
                                                                             p.
                                                                                 4

                                                                                                                                       ;
350.                   Effect of Torsion on the Electrical Conductivity of
                       Phys. Soc. Proc. in.
                                                       (proc.) [May 25, 1878,

               title only] Nature XVIII. pp. 180-181, June 13, 1878.
351. The Microphone.              Letter to Nature XVlll. pp. 355-356, Aug.

352.          1878.    Sir   W.,  and  Evans,          Capt. -- On               the  Tides                                               of  the
      Thomson,

               Southern Hemisphere, and of the Mediterranean.                                                                                 Brit.

               Assoc. Report, 1878, pp. 477-481; Nature xvm. pp. 670-
               672, Oct. 24, 1878; Pop. Lect. in. pp. 204-208.
353. On Gaussin's Warning regarding the Sluggishness of Ships'
               Magnetism. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1878, pp. 496-497 Nature
               Xix. pp. 127-128, Dec. 12, 1878.
354. Influence of the Straits of Dover on the Tides of the British
               Channel and North Sea. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1878, pp.
               639-640; Nature xix. pp. 152-154, Dec. 19, 1878; Pop.
               Lect. in. pp. 201-204.
355. The Distinction of Lighthouses [Lecture to the Shipmasters'
               Society]. Times, Oct. 26, 1878.
356. On Machine for the Solution of Simultaneous Linear Equations.
               a
                                                                            i.)
               Roy. Soc. Proc. xxvin. pp. 111-113, 1879 [read Dec.
                                                                                      ;
               1878].                                                                              5,
357. Elasticity, article in "Encyclopaedia Britannica," 1878 Math.
               and Phys. Papers in. art. xcii. (pt.                              pp. 1-112. [See No.

             5*3-]
1879.

358. The Sorting Demon of Maxwell. Roy. Instit. Proc. IX. pp.                                                                             5,
            113-114 [Feb. 28, 1879]; Nature XX. p. 126, June 1879;
               Pop. Lect.
                             pp. 137-141.
                            i.
                                  I.

                                                   1.

                                                   ["
359.  On Gravitational Oscillation of Rotating Water.                                 Edinb. Roy.

               Soc. Proc. X. pp. 92-100 [read Mar. 17, 1879, abstract];
               Phil. Mag. x. pp. 109-116, Aug. 1880.

360.  Note on the preceding letter On the Dissipation of Energy,"

               by Prof. P.   G.   Tail]. Phil. Mag. vn.                          pp. 346-348, May
               1879; Joum.   de   Phys. vm. pp. 236-237,                          1879; Math, and

               Phys. Papers       art. pp. 456-459.

361.  lio-m,Evidence before the Select Committee on Electric                                                                                  Light
362.           [Abstract].   Nature XX. pp.                                      May 29, 1879.                                                Good

      Terrestrial Magnetism and the Mariner's Compass.

               Words, 1879, pp. 383-390 [June]; pp. 445-453 [July];
               Pop. Lect. ill. p. 228.

                        BIBLIOGRAPHY                    1253

363. Distinguishing Lights for Lighthouses [Abstract from a
          Letter to The Times]. Nature xxi. pp. 109-110, Dec 4,

       1879-

1880.

 364.  On Steam-Pressure Thermometers of Sulphurous Acid, Water,

 365.  and Mercury. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. X.   pp. 432-441 [read
 366.  Mar. i, 1880].
.      On a Sulphurous Acid Cryophorus. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. x.

         pp. 442-443 [read Mar. I, 1880 (Abstract)].
       Vibrations of a Columnar Vortex. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. X.
       pp. 443-456 [read Mar. I, 1800]; Phil. Mag. x. pp. 155-
       168, Sept. 1880.

367. On a Realised Sulphurous Acid Steam-Pressure Thermometer,
           and on a Sulphurous Acid Steam -Pressure Differential

       Thermometer ; also a Note on Steam-Pressure Thermometers.

368.     Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. x. pp. 532-536 [read Apr. 19, 1880].
       On a Differential Thermoscope founded on Change of

         Viscosity of Water with Change of Temperature. Edinb.

       Roy. Soc. Proc. X. p. 537 [read Apr. 19, 1880].
       On a Thermomagnetic Thermoscope.         Edinb. Roy. Soc.
369.
370.     Proc. x. pp. 538-539 [read Apr. 19, 1880].
371.   On a Constant Pressure Gas Thermometer. Edinb. Roy. Soc.

          Proc. X. pp. 539-545 [read Apr. 19, 1880].
       On the Elimination of Air from Water. Phys. Soc. Proc. IV.

372.     p. 4 [May 8, 1880, title only].  Phys. Soc. Proc. IV. p. 4
       On Steam-Pressure Thermometers.

         [May 8, 1880, title only].

373. On the Radiation of Water-Steam Pressure Thermometers.
           Phys. Soc. Proc. IV. p. 4 [May 8, 1880, title only].

374.   Recent Improvements in the Compass, with Correctors for Iron
         Ships. United Service Instit. Journ. XXIV. pp. 404-410,
          1881 [May 10, 1880]; Pop. Lect. in. p. 228.

375.   On the Maximum and Minimum Energy in Vortex Motion.
376.     Brit. Assoc. Report, 1880, pp. 473-476. Nature xxn. pp.
          618-620; Oct. 28, 1880; with corrections and additions,
         Phil. Mag. XXIII. pp. 529-539, 1887.

       On a Septum Permeable to Water and Impermeable to Air,

          with Practical Applications to a Navigational Depth-Gauge.
         Brit. Assoc. Report, 1880, pp. 488-489 ; Nature xxii. pp.

       548-549, Oct. 7, 1880.

377. On an Experimental Illustration of Minimum Energy in Vortex
           Motion. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1880, pp. 491-492 ; Nature
          xxin. pp. 69-70, Nov. 1 8, 1880.

378. On a Disturbing Infinity in Lord Rayleigh's Solution for Waves
       in a Plane Vortex Stratum. Brit. Assoc.
       492-493; Nature xxin. pp. 45-46, Nov.    Rne,por1t8, 801;880p,.  pp.
                                                                        70,

       Nov. 1 8, 1880.

379. On a Method of Measuring Contact Electricity. Brit. Assoc.

1254 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

> Report, 1880, pp. 494-496 ; Nature xxm. pp. 567-568,
            Apr. 14, 1 88 1.

380. On a Method of Determining without Mechanism the Limiting
           Steam-Liquid Temperature of a Fluid. Brit. Assoc. Report,
          1880, pp. 496-497; Nature XXIII. pp. 87-88, Nov. 25, 1880;

           Journ. de Phys. x. p. 414, 1 88 1.
381. On an Improved Sounding Machine. Brit. Assoc. Report,

382.      1 880, p. 703 [title only].
       Heat, article on, in "Encyclopaedia Britannica," 1880. Math.

         and Phys. Papers n. art. Ixxii. pp. 41-55 ; in. art. xcii.

       (pt. ii.) pp. II3-23S-

1881.

383. On his Siphon Recorder [Letter to La Lumiere Electrique,
       dated Jan. 25, 1881].   Lum. Elec. in. p. 126, Feb. 5,

       1881.

384. On Lighthouse Characteristics. [Paper read at Naval and
          Marine Exhibition, Glasgow, Feb. 11, 1881.] Pop. Lect. III.

            PP- 389-421.
385. On the Effect of Moistening with Water the Opposed Metallic

           Surfaces in a Volta-condenser, and of Substituting a Water

       Arc for a Metallic Arc in the Determining Contact. Edin.

386.     Roy. Soc. Proc. XI. p. 135 [read Feb. 21. 1881, title only].
387.   On Vortex Sponge. Edin. Roy. Soc. Proc xi. p. 135 [read
         Feb. 21, 1881, title only].
       Discussion of M. am Ende's     Paper  " On  the  Weight  and

       Limiting Dimensions of Girder Bridges." Inst. Civil Engrs.

388.      Proc. LXIV. pp. 277-278, 1 88 1 [Feb. 22, 1881].
389.   The Tide-Gauge, Tidal Harmonic Analyzer, and Tide Predicter.

         Inst. Civil Engrs. Proc. LXV. pp. 2-25, 1881 [Mar. I, 8, and
          15, 1881]; Discussion and Reply, pp. 26-31, pp. 58-64.
       On his New Navigational Sounding Machine and Depth-
          Gauge. United Service Instit. Journ. xxv. pp. 374-381, 1882

           [Mar. 4, 1881].
390. Elasticity viewed as Possibly a Mode of Motion. Roy. Instit.

           Proc. ix. pp. 520-521, 1882 [Mar. 4, 1881]; Pop. Lect. I.

391.      pp. 142-146.         Letter to Nature xxm. p. 482, Mar. 24,
392.   The Tide Predicter.

393.   1881 ; p. 578, Apr. 21, 1881.
394.
       On the Average Pressure due to Impulse of Vortex Rings on a
       Solid. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xi. p. 204 [read Apr. 18,
       . 1 88 1, title only].

       The Storage of Electric Energy. Nature xxiv. pp. 137, 156,

          157, June 16, 1881.
       Presidential Address to the Mathematical and Physical Science

         Section of the British Association at York, Sept. I. -- On the

       Sources of Energy in Nature available to Man for the Pro

       duction of Mechanical Effect. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1881,
       pp. 513-518; Nature xxiv. pp. 433-436, Sept. 8, 1881,

                      BIBLIOGRAPHY                                    1255

395.     Franklin Inst. Journ. LXXXII. pp. 376-385, Nov. 1881 ;
396.     Pop. Lect. II. pp. 433-450.
       On some Uses of Faure's Accumulator in Connection with
397.     Lighting by Electricity. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1881, p. 526.
       On the Economy of Metal in Conductors of Electricity. Brit.

         Assoc. Report, 1881, pp. 526-528 ; Lum. Elec. v. pp. 65-66,
          Oct. 12, 1881.
       On the Proper Proportions of Resistance in the Working Coils,
         the Electromagnets and the External Circuits of Dynamos.

       Brit. Assoc. Report, 1881, pp. 528-531 ; Comp. Rend. XCin.
       pp. 474-479, 1881 ; Nature xxiv. pp. 526-527, Sept. 29>
       1881 ; Lum. Elec. iv. pp. 385-387, Sept. 24, 1881.

398. On an Electro-ergometer.     Brit. Assoc. Report, 1881, p. 554

399.      [title only].                    (J. T.). -- On the Illuminating
       Thomson (Sir W.) and Bottomley
       Powers of Incandescent Vacuum Lamps with Measured

       Potentials and Measured Currents.           Brit. Assoc. Report,

             1881, pp. 559-561.            Brit. Assoc. Report, 1881,
400. On Photometry, with Experiments.

401.      p. 561 [title only].
       Acceleration Thermodynamiquedu Mouvement de Rotation de la

       Terre. Paris Soc. Phys. Stances, pp. 200-210, 1881 [Sept.
       23, 1881]; Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XL pp. 396-405 [read
                          Journ. de Phys.  I. pp.  61-70, 1882 ; Nuovo
       Jan. 16,  1882] ;  240-243, 1882 ;  Math,   and Phys. Papers HI.
       Cimento
                 xi. pp.

       PP- 34I-35°; L'Astronomie IV. pp. 230-231, June 1885.

1882.

402.   Solar Observations.  Letter to Nature xxv. pp. 316-317,
403.
          Feb. 2, 1882.
404.
405.   Discussion of J. J. Coleman's Paper on " Air Refrigerating
       Machinery and its Applications," Inst. Civ. Engrs. Proc.

       LXVIII. pp. 210-211, 1882 [Feb. 14, 1882].
       On the Figures of Equilibrium of a Rotating Mass of Fluid.
                                  xi. pp.
         Edinb. Roy.  Soc. Proc.           "61O0n-61t3he  [read Apr.  3, 1882].
       Discussion of  D. Clerk's   paper                   Theory of   the Gas

       Engine." Inst. Civ. Engrs. Proc. LXIX. pp. 278-279, 1882

           [Apr. 4, 1882].
406. On a New Form of Galvanometer for Measuring Currents and

           Potentials in Absolute Units. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1882, p.

407.      464 [title only].
408.   On the Transmission of Force through an Elastic Solid.
409.
410.     Brit. Assoc. Report, 1882, p. 474 [title only].              Brit.
       On a Method of Investigating Magnetic Susceptibility.

          Assoc. Report, 1882, p. 474 [title only].
       On the Tides. [Lecture to B.A. at Southampton, Aug. 25,

          1882]; Pop. Lect. in. pp. 139-190.
       Approximate Photometric Measurements of Sun, Moon, Cloudy

       Sky, and Electric and other Artificial Lights. Glasg. Phil.

1256 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

       Soc. Proc. xiv. pp. 80-85, l883 [read Nov- 29> 1882];
       Nature XXVll. pp. 277-279, Jan. 18, 1883 ; Journ. de Phys.
       in. (2nd Ser.) p. 50, 1884; Lum. Elec. VH. pp. 638-640,
       Dec. 30, 1882; Math, and Phys. Papers in. art. xcii. pp.

       249-255.

1883.

411. The Size of Atoms. Roy. Instit. Proc. X. pp. 185-213, 1884
          [Feb. 2, 1883]; Nature xxvni. pp. 203-205, June 28,
          1883, pp. 250-254, July 12, 1886, pp. 274-278, July 19,

       1883; Pop. Lect. I. pp. 147-217.
       On the Dynamical Theory of Dispersion. Edinb. Roy. Soc.
412.      Proc. XII. p. 128 [read Mar. 5, 1883, title only].
413.
       On Gyrostatics. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XII. p. 128 [read
          Mar. 5, 1883, title only].

414.   Oscillations and Waves in an Adynamic Gyrostatic System.
415.     Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XII. p. 128 [read Mar. 5, 1883,
         title only]. [See No. 499.]

       Electrical Units of Measurement. Inst. Civ. Engrs. [abstract
         of lecture at the Inst. Civ. Engrs., May 3, 1883]; Nature
       xxvni. pp. 91-92, May 24, 1883; Chemical News XLVII.

416.      pp. 242-243, 1883 ; Pop. Lect. I. pp. 73-1 36.
       On a Model illustrating Helicoidal Asymmetry, and par

         ticularly the Formation of Right- and Left-handed Helicoidal

         Crystals from a Non - Helicoidal Solution. Brit. Assoc.

       Report, 1883, p. 405 [title only].
       Gyrostatic Determination of the North and South Line and
417.                                       Brit. Assoc. Report, 1883,
       the Latitude of any Place.

       p. 405 [title only].
       The Six Gateways of Knowledge [Address at the Midland
418.                                             Nature xxix. pp.

       Institute, Birmingham, Oct. 3, 1883].
       438-440, Mar. 6, 1884, pp. 462-465, Mar. 13, 1884; Pop.

419.      Lect. I. pp. 253-299.      Siemens.    Nature xxix. pp.
       Obituary Notice of Sir C. W.

         97-99, Nov. 29, 1883.

1884.                Measurement of Electric     Currents and Potentials.
420. On the          Phil. Soc. Proc. xv. 1884,  pp. 96-101 [read Jan. 9,

             Glasg.

421.      1884].
       On Measurements made by Mr. Abdank and himself in the

         Vienna Electric Exhibition on the Current yielded by the
         New Voltaic Element of Lalande. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc

422.     XV. p. 378 [read Jan. 9, 1884, title only].
423.   On the Efficiency of Clothing for Maintaining Temperature.

         Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xn. p. 563 [Mar. 3, 1884, title only] ;
          Nature XXIX. p. 567, Apr. to, 1884.
       On a Modification of Gauss's Method for Determining the
          Horizontal Component of Terrestrial Magnetic Force, and

         the Magnetic Moments of Bar Magnets in Absolute Measure.

       BIBLIOGRAPHY                                         1257

       Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XII. p. 578 [Mar. 3, 1884,
             only].
424. Discussion of W. H. Preece's paper on " The Electrical

          Congresses of Paris." Soc. Telegr. Engrs. Proc. XIII. pp.

       381-388 [May 22, 1884].
425. Steps towards a Kinetic Theory of Matter.
                                                [Presidential
       Address to the Mathematical and Physical Science Section of

       the British Association, Montreal, Aug. 28, 1884.] Brit.
       Assoc. Report, 1884, pp. 613-622; Nature xxxi. pp. 461-
       463. Mar. 19, 1885 : Pop. Lect. I. pp. 218-252.
426. On a Gyrostatic Working Model of the Magnetic Compass.
       Brit. Assoc. Report, 1884, pp. 625-628.
427. On Safety Fuses for Electric Circuits.     Brit. Assoc. Report,

             1884, p. 632 [title only].
428. On the Distribution of Potential in Conductors experiencing

       the Electromagnetic Effects discovered by Hall. American

       Association for the Advancement of Science. Paper read in

429.     Section B, Philadelphia meeting, Sept. 1884, vol. xxxiii. 137
          [title only, given in Proc.].
       The Wave Theory of Light. [Lecture delivered in the
         Academy of Music, Philadelphia, under the auspices of the

       Franklin Institute] ; Jnl. Franklin Instil. LXXXVIII. pp. 321-
       341, Nov. 1884 [delivered Sept. 29, 1884]; Nature xxxi.
       p. 62, Nov. 20, 1884, pp. 91-94, Nov. 27, 1884, p. 115,

       Dec. 4, 1884, pp. 508-510, Apr. 2, 1885 ; Pop. Lect. I. pp.

430.      300-348.
       On the Ether and Gravitational Matter through Infinite Space.

         [Amplification of Baltimore Lect xvi., Oct. 15, 1884.
         Phil. Mag. II. pp. 161-177, Aug. 1901 ; Amer. Jnl. Sci. XII.
           (4th Ser.) pp. 390-391, 19°'-
431. On the Weights of Atoms. [Lecture xvn. of Baltimore

           Lectures extended.] Phil. Mag. IV. pp. 177-198, Aug. 1902,
             pp. 281-301, Sept. 1902.
432. On the Dynamics of Reflection and Refraction in the Wave
          Theory of Light. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XIII. p. 2 [Dec. I,
             1884, title only].

433.   On the Distribution of Energy between colliding Groups of
434.      Molecules. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xm. p. 2 [Dec. I, 1884,
          title only].

       On Kerr's Discovery Regarding the Reflection of Light from a

         Magnetic Pole. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xm. p. 2 [Dec. i,

          1884, title only].

1885.

435. The Bangor Laboratories    [Address at Univ. Coll. Bangor,
       Feb. 2, 1885]; Nature xxxi. pp. 409-413, Mar. 5, 1885;

           Pop. Lect. n. p. 475-501.
436. On Energy in Vortex Motion. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xm.
      p. 114 [Feb. 16, 1885, title only].
                                                        2X
VOL. II

1258 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

437.  Letter giving Corrections of the Papyrograph Report of
438.
         Baltimore Lectures. Nature XXXI. p. 407, Mar. 5, 1885.
439.  On Constant Gravitational Instruments for Measuring Electric

        Currents and Potentials. Brit Assoc. Report, 1885, pp.
        905-906; Nature xxxn. p. 535, Oct. I, 1885.
      On a Method of Multiplying Potential from a Hundred
        to several Thousand Volts. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1885,

440.     p. 907.
441.
442.  Discussion on "Electrolysis" at the Brit Assoc. opened by

      Prof. Lodge.  Brit. Assoc. Report, 1885, pp. 723-772;
        Nature xxxin. p. 20, Nov. 5, 1885.
      On the Motion of a Liquid within an Ellipsoidal Hollow.

      Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XIH. pp. 370-378 [Dec. 7, 1885].
         [See No. 611.]
      Obituary Notice of Fleeming Jenkin.  Roy. Soc. Proc xxxix.

             pp. 1-3 [1885].
1886.

443. Capillary Attraction [i886J Roy. Instit. Proc. XI. 1887, pp.

            483-507 [Jan. 29, 1886] ; Pop. Lect. I. pp. 1-55. [See No.
          45'-]
444. On the Magnitude of the Mutual Attraction between Two
            Pieces of Matter at a distance of less than Ten Micro-

        millimetres. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xiu. p. 625 [Mar. i,

             1886, title only].
445. On a New Form of Portable Spring Balance for the Measure

          ment of Terrestrial Gravity. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XIII.

446.    pp. 683-686 [Apr. 19, 1886].
      Description of a Differential Gravity Meter Founded on the

        Flexure of a Spring. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1886, pp. 534-

447.     535-
      On Stationary Waves in Flowing Water. Brit. Assoc. Report,
448.
449.  1886, p. 546; Phil. Mag. XXII. pp. 353-357, 445-45^,
450.  517-530. 1886; XXIH. pp. 52-58, 1887; Nature xxxiv.
451.
      pp. 507-508, Sept. 23, 1886.
452.
      Artificial Production and Maintenance of a Standing Bore.

        Brit. Assoc. Report, 1886, p. 547 [title only].
      Velocity of Advance of a Natural Bore. Brit. Assoc. Report,

         1886, p. 547 [title only].                     Brit.
      Graphical Illustrations of Deep-Sea Wave Groups.

         Assoc. Report, 1886, p. 547 [title only].

      Capillary Attraction. Nature XXXIV. 1886, pp. 270-272, July
      22, 1886; 290-294, July 29, 1886; 366-369, Aug. 19, 1886.

         [See No. 443.]
      On the Waves Produced by a Ship Advancing Uniformly

      into Smooth Water.  Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XIV. p. 37

      [Dec. 20, 1886, title only]; Phil. Mag. XXIII. pp. 52-58,

           Jan. 1887.
453. On the Ring- Waves Produced by Throwing a Stone into Water.

                             BIBLIOGRAPHY                                   1259

       Edinb. Roy. Soc Proc. XIV. p. 37 [Dec. 20, 1886, title only] ;
       Phil. Mag. xxin. pp. 52-58, Jan. 1887.

1887.

454.   On the Front and Rear of a Free Procession of Waves in

       Deep Water.           Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XIV. pp. 38-46
       [Jan. 7, 1887]; Phil. Mag. XXIII. pp. 113-120, Feb.

455.      1887.                Roy. Instil. Proc. xn. 1889, pp. 1-21
       The Sun's Heat.
456.
       [Jan. 21, 1887] ; Nature XXXV. pp. 297-300, Jan. 27, 1887 ;
457.   Ciel et Terre in. pp. 79-80, pp. 281-288, 1887-1888 ; Pop.

458.      Lect. I. pp. 369-422.
       On the Waves Produced by a Single Impulse in Water of any
459.
460.   Depth, or in a Dispersive Medium. Roy. Soc. Proc. XLH.
461.
462.     pp. 80-83, '887 [read Feb. 3, 1887]; Phil. Mag. xxni.
463.     pp. 252-255, Mar. 1887.
       On the Formation of Coreless Vortices by the Motion of a

       Solid through an Inviscid Incompressible Fluid. Roy. Soc.

         Proc. XLH. pp. 83-85, 1887 [Feb. 3, 1887]; Phil. Mag.
         xxin. pp. 255-257, Mar. 1887.
       On the Equilibrium of a Gas under its own Gravitation only.

         Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XIV. pp. 111-118 [read Feb. 21,
          1887], pt. iii. p. 118 [title only]; Phil. Mag. xxn. pp.
         287-292, Mar. 1887.
       On Laplace's Nebular Theory, considered in Relation to

       Thermodynamics.         Edin. Roy. Soc. Proc. XIV. p. 121 [Mar.

       7, 1887, title only].

       The Sun's Heat. Good Words, 1887, pp. 149-153 [Mar.],
         pp. 262-269 [Apr.].

       On Ship -Waves. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XIV. p. 194 [Apr.

       18, 1887, title only].

       On the Instability of Fluid Motion. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.
         XIV. p. 194 [Apr. 18, 1887, title only] ; Phil. Mag. XXIII. pp.
         459-464, May 1887.

       On a Double Chain of Electrical Measuring Instruments to

       Measure Currents from the Millionth of a Milliampere to a

       Thousand Amperes and to Measure Potentials up to Forty
       Thousand Volts. Glasg. Phil. Soc. Proc. xvm. pp. 249-256
       [Apr. 20, 1887]; La Lumiere Electrique xxiv. pp. 476-479,

       June 4, 1887.                                                         La Lumiere
       Nouveaux       Appareils dlectriques de                   mesure.    Viscous Fluid
464.
465.      Electrique  xxiv.  Mpopti.on50--1-5R0e6c,tilJiunneeal  u, 1887.
       Stability of   Fluid
466.                                                             Motion of

       between Two Parallel Planes. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xiv.
       PP- 359-368 [read July 15, 1887]; Phil. Mag. xxiv. pp.
       188-196, Aug. 1887.
       Ship-Waves [a Lecture in connection with the Institution of
         Mechanical Engineers' Conference in Edinburgh. (E. H.
         Carbutt, President) Marquis of Tweeddale in the Chair,

1260 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

467.     Aug. 3, 1887]. Inst. Mech. Engrs. Proc. 1887, pp. 409-433,
         Pop. Lect. in. p. 450.
       On the Vortex Theory of the Luminiferous ^Ether. (On the
         Propagation of Laminar Motion through a Turbulently Moving
         Inviscid Liquid.) Brit. Assoc. Report, 1887, pp. 486-495 ;
         Phil. Mag. XXIV. pp. 342-353, Oct. 1887; Nature xxxvi.

468.     PP- S50-S5I, Oct. 6, 1887.
469.   On the Turbulent Motion of Water between Two Planes.
470.
         Brit. Assoc. Report, 1887, p. 581 [title    only]; Nature
         xxxvi. p. 523, Sept. 29. 1887.              1887, pp. 582-
       New Electric Balances. Brit. Assoc. Report,

       583 [title only]; Electrician xx. pp. 130-131, Dec. 16,
       1887 ; Nature xxxvi. p. 522, Sept. 29, 1887.
       On the Application of the Centi-ampere or the Deci-ampere
       Balance for the Measurement of the E.M.F. of a Single Cell.

       Brit. Assoc. Report, 1887, pp. 610-611; Electrician xx. pp.
       130-131,272,1888; Naturexxxvi. p. 522, Sept. 29, 1887;
       with additions, Phil. Mag. xxiv. pp. 514-516, Dec. 1887,

471.     and xxv. p. 164, Feb. 1888.
472.   Stability of Motion. Broad River flowing down an Inclined

473.     Plane Bed. Phil. Mag. xxiv., Sept. 1887, pp. 272-278.
       Note on the Contributions of Fleeming Jenkin to Electrical and

         Engineering Science. Papers of Fleeming Jenkin, Memoir,
         Appendix I. pp. 155-159, pub. 1887.
       On Cauchy's and Green's Doctrine of Extraneous Force to

         Explain Dynamically Fresnel's Kinematics of Double Re

       fraction. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XV. pp. 21-33 [read Dec
       5, 1887]; Phil. Mag. XXV. pp. 116-128, Feb. 1888.
       On Models of the Minimal Tetrakaidekahedron.  [Note of the
474.
       Exhibition of] ; Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XV. p. 33 [Dec. 5,

             1887]-
475. On the Division of Space with Minimum Partitional Area.

          Phil. Mag. xxiv. pp. 503-514, Dec. 1887 ; Acta. Math. XI.

       pp. 121-134, 1887-1888.

1888.

476.   On a New Composite Electric Balance. Glasg. Phil. Soc.
477.      Proc. XIX. pp. 273-274 [read Feb. 4, 1888].

       Note on the Determination of Diffusivity in Absolute Measure
         from Mr. Coleman's Experiments. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.

478.     XV. p. 256 [Mar. 19, 1888, title only].
479.   Polar Ice-caps and their Influence in Changing Sea-levels.
480.   Glasg. Geol. Soc vin. pp. 322-340 [Feb. 16, 1888]; Pop.
         Lect. II. pp. 319-359.
       On his New Standard and Inspectional Electric Measuring

       Instruments. Soc. Teleg. Engrs.  Jl.  xvn. p. 540, pp. 560

         and 563 [May 24, 1888].
       A Simple Hypothesis for Electromagnetic Induction of Incom

       plete Circuits, with consequent Equations of Electric Motion

                        BIBLIOGRAPHY                                       1261

       in Fixed Homogeneous or Heterogeneous Solid Matter.

       ii,Brit. Assoc. Report, 1888, pp. 567-570 ; Nature XXXVlli.
       pp. 569-571, Oct.        1888.

481.   On the Transference of Electricity within a Homogeneous Solid
482.
       Conductor.       Brit. Assoc. Report, 1888,                pp. 570-571 ;
       Nature xxxvin. p. 571, Oct. n, 1888.

       Five Applications of Fourier's Law of Diffusion, illustrated by

       a Diagram of Curves with Absolute Numerical Values. Brit.
       ii,Assoc. Report, 1888, pp. 571-574; Nature xxxvin. pp.
       571-573, Oct.      1888; Lum. Elec. XXX. pp. 80-83, Oct.
       13, 1888; Math, and Phys. Papers III. art. xcviii. pp.

       428-435.
       Discussion on Lightning Conductors at the British Association.
483.   Brit Assoc. Report, 1888, pp. 603-606 ; Nature XXXVlli.
484.
       p. 546, Oct. 4, 1888.                                                (J.). --
485.
486.   Thomson (Sir     William), Ayrton   (W" v. ."E.),Braitn.d    Perry  Report,
         Electrometric   Determination of                         Assoc.

          1888, pp. 616 [title only]; Electrician XXL, 1888, p. 681 ;
         Lum. Elec. xxx. p. 79, Oct. 13, 1888.
       Note of a Letter to The Times Correcting an Error in the

          Report of the B.A. Meeting, and Criticising Remarks on the
         British Association. Nature xxxvin. p. 500, Sept. 20, 1888.
       On the Reflexion and Refraction of Light. Phil. Mag. XXVI.

       1888, pp. 414-425, Nov. 1888, and 500-501, Dec. 1888.

1889.

487. Ether, Electricity, and Ponderable Matter. Inst. Elec. Engrs.
          Jl. xvm. 1890, pp. 4-37 (Inaug. Address, Jan. 10, 1889);
          Correction xvm. 1890, p. 128 ; Correction vol. xxiv. 1895,
           inserted between pp. 396 and 397 ; Math, and Phys. Papers
          III. art. cii. pp. 484-515.

488. Electrostatic Measurement. Roy. Inst. Proc. XII., 1889, pp.
           561-562 [Feb. 8, 1889]; Nature XXXIX. pp. 465-466, Mar.

489.      14, 1889.
       Exhibition of a Gyrostatic Model of a Medium capable of Trans
490.
491.   mitting Waves of Transverse Vibration. Edinb. Roy. Soc.
       Proc. xvi. p. 8n ; Nature xxxix. p. 527, Mar. 28, 1889.
                                Belfast Nat. Hist. Soc. Rep. and
       Gyrostatic Experiments.

         Proc. (1888-89), pp. 89-91 [Apr. 16, 1889].
       Discussion of Dr. O. J. Lodge's paper on "Lightning, Light

         ning Conductors, and Lightning Protector," Inst. Elec.

       Engrs. Jl. xvm. pp. 516-520 [May 16, 1889].
       On the Security against Disturbance of Ships' Compasses by
492.   Electric Lighting Appliances. Inst. Elec. Engrs. Jl. xvm.
493.   1890, pp. 567-571 [May 23, 1889]; p. 579; Lum. Elec.
       xxxin. pp. 290-291, Aug. 10, 1889.
       Discussion of W. M. Mordey's Paper on "Alternate Current
                                                xvm. pp. 667-668 [May
       Working." Inst. Elec. Engrs.        Jl.

       30, 1889].

1262 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

494.  Molecular Constitution of Matter. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.
        xvi. pp. 693-734 [read July I, 1889]; xxiv. p. 583 [Dec.
        2, 1901]; Math, and Phys. Papers in. art. xcvii. pp.

495.     395-427. [See             Nos. 496 and  508.]     Roy.  Soc.  Proc.  XVI.
496.  Electrification of                           Edinb.
                                  Air by Flame.
497.
        pp. 262-263 [read July 15, 1889].
      Sur la tactique moleculaire de la made artificielle du spath

         d'Islande produite par Baumhauer au moyen d'un couteau.
        Comp. Rend. cix. pp. 333-337 [Aug. 26, 1889]; Edinb.
         Roy. Soc. Proc. xvi. p. 707 [see No. 494].
      Sur Wquilibre des atonies et sur Pelasticite des solides, dans

      la the"orie Boscovichienne de la matiere. Comp. Rend. Cix.

498.    PP- 337-34 1 [Aug. 26, 1889].
499.  On Boscovich's Theory. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1889, pp. 494-
500.
        496; Nature XL. pp. 545-547, Oct. 3, 1889.
501.  Sur une constitution gyrostatique adynamique pour 1'Ether.

        Comp. Rend. cix. pp. 453-455 [Sept. 16,1889]; Math, and
        Phys. Papers ill. art. c. pp. 466-467 [see No. 414].
      Note on the Direction of the Induced Longitudinal Current in

      Iron and Nickel Wires by Twist when under Longitudinal

      Magnetizing Force.          Phil. Mag. XXIX. pp. 132-133, Jan.

         1890 [dated Dec. 21, 1889].
      On the Stability and Small Oscillation of a Perfect Liquid Full

      of Nearly Straight Coreless Vortices.                Irish Acad. Proc. I.

             1889-91, pp. 340-342 [1889].
1890.

502. Remarks on Retiring from the Presidential Chair, and Reply
      to Vote of Thanks. Inst. Elec. Engrs.                         xix. pp. 2-6,
                                                  J.
      [Jan. 9, 1890].                                          Jl.
503. Remarks on the President's (Dr.              Hopkinson) Inaugural
                                          Inst. Elec. Engrs. Jl. xix. p. 36
      Address (Magnetism).

           [Jan. 9, 1890].
504. On Electrostatic Stress. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xvn. p. 412

           [Jan. 20, 1890, title only]; Nature XLI. p. 358, Feb. 13,

      1890.
505. Rainbow due to Sunlight Reflected from the Sea. [Letter
                                  Letter from William Scouller.] Nature XLll.
      publishing
      a p.
                 6,

                            a
506.        271, Jan. 23, 1890.                            [Letter publishing
      Eight Rainbows seen at the same Time.                XLI. pp. 316-317,

            Letter from Mr. P. Frost.] Nature
      Feb.
             1890.
      Communication in reference to Mr. Preece's Remarks on Sub
507.
                                  in the Discussion on Mr. Addenbrooke's
      omnar"inEeleCcatbrilceas l  Engineering in America." Inst. Elec.     Paper
                                                                          Engrs.

      Jl.  xvin. p. 863 [Feb.     1       1890].
                                      1,

508. On the Moduluses of Elasticity in an Elastic Solid according
      to Boscovich's Theory. Edinb. Math. Soc., Feb. 1890, not

      printed, but substance of the paper         is       in Edinb. Roy. Soc.

                         BIBLIOGRAPHY                       1263

        Proc. xvi. pp. 693-724, and Math and Phys. Papers III.

           art. xcvii. pp. 395-498 [see No. 494].   Edinb. Roy.
509. On a Mechanism for the Constitution of Ether.
        Soc. Proc. XVII. pp. 127-132 [read Mar. 17, 1890]; Math.
        and Phys. Papers HI. art. c. pp. 467-472.
5 1o. On an Accidental Illustration of the Effective Ohmic Resistance
           to a Transient Electric Current through a Steel Bar. Edinb.
                   Proc. xvn. pp. 157-167 [read Mar. 17,
        Roy. Soc.  Phys. Papers in. art. xci. pp. 473-483.  1890];
        Math, and

511.    On the Time- integral of a Transient Electromagnetically In

        duced Current. Phil. Mag. XXIX. pp. 276-280, March 1890.
        L'ficlairage electrique et la securite publique. Lum. cli-c.
5 1 2.    xxxvi. pp. 40-43, Apr. 5, 1890.
5 1 3.
        On the Researches of Hertz and Lodge, being a Short Speech
          after a Paper by Lodge on " Electrical Oscillations." Glasg.

           Phil. Soc. Proc. XXI. p. 224 [Apr. 16, 1890].
5 14. Motion of a Viscous Liquid ; Equilibrium or Motion of an

           Elastic Solid ; Equilibrium or Motion of an Ideal Substance

        called for Brevity Ether ; Mechanical Representation of
                         Math, and Phys. Papers ill. art. xcix.
        Magnetic Force.

           pp. 436-465, May 1890.
515. Address on Presenting the Gunning Victoria Jubilee Prize for

           1887-90 to Professor Tail. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XVII.

5 1 6.    pp. 417-418 [July 7, 1890].    with Electromagnetic
517.    On the Submarine Cable Problem,

        Induction. Edin. Roy. Soc. Proc. xvn. p. 420 [title only] ;
        Nature XLII. pp. 287-288, July 17, 1890.
        On an Illustration of Contact Electricity presented by the

        Multicellular Electrometer. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1890, p.

        728; Nature XLII. p. 577, Oct. 9, 1890; Lum. Elec.

        XXXVIIL, Dec. 6, 1890.
518. On Alternate Currents in Parallel Conductors of Homogeneous
        or Heterogeneous Substance. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1890,
          PP- 732-736; Nature XLII. p. 577, Oct. 9, 1890.
519. On Anti-effective Copper in Parallel Conductors or in Coiled

           Conductors for Alternate Currents. Brit. Assoc. Report,

520.       1890, pp. 736-740 ; Nature XLII. pp. 577-578, Oct. 9, 1890;
           Lum. Elec. XXXVIIL pp. 317-321.
        On a Method of Determining in Absolute Measure the Magnetic
          Susceptibility of Diamagnetic and Feebly Magnetic Solids.

        Brit. Assoc. Report, 1890, pp. 745-746; Nature XLII. p.

        578, Oct. 9, 1890; Lum. Elec. XXXVIIL p. 611, Dec. 27,

521.       1890.                                            An

        A New Electric Meter. The Multicellular Voltmeter.
        Engine-room Voltmeter. An Ampere Gauge. A New Form

        of Voltapile, useful in Standardising Operations. Brit. Assoc.

        Report, 1890, p. 956 [title only]; Nature XLII. p. 534,
        Sept. 25, 1890.

1264 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

522. Prof. Tait's Experimental Results regarding the Compressibility
           of Fresh Water and Sea Water at Different Temperatures ;

       Compressibilities at Single Temperatures of Mercury, of Glass,

       and of Water with Different Proportions of Common Salt in

       Solution ; being an Extract from his Contribution to the
       Report on the Scientific Results of the Voyage of H.M.S.

523.      Challenger, vol. ii. Physics and Chemistry, Part iv. (published
         in 1888). Math, and Phys. Papers III. art. ciii. pp. 516-518.
       Velocities of Waves of Different Character, and Corresponding

       Moduluses in Cases of Waves due to Elasticity ; being
                                                           Math, and
       Appendix to   art.  xcii. § 51.    [See No.  357.]
       Phys. Papers        art. civ. pp.  519-522.
                     III.

1891.

524. Remarks in proposing a Vote of Thanks to the President (Sir
         W. Crookes) for his Address. Inst. Elec. Engrs. Jl. XX.

           p. 49, Jan. 15, 1891.
525. On Electrostatic Screening by Gratings, Nets, or Perforated

           Sheets of Conducting Material. Roy. Soc. Proc. XLIX., 1891,

526.     pp. 405-418 [Apr. 9, 1891].                       Roy. Soc.
       On Variational Electric and Magnetic Screening.
527.
528.      Proc. XLIX., 1891, pp. 418-423 [Apr. 9, 1891]; Lum. Elec.
          XL. pp. 229-232, May 2, 1891 ; Baltimore Lectures,
         Appendix K, pp. 681-687, 1904.
       Electric and Magnetic Screening. Roy. Inst. Proc. x1n. 1893,

         PP- 345-355 [Apr. 10, 1891].

       Discussion of Dr. J. A. Fleming's Paper on "Effects of Alter
       nating Current Flow  in  Circuits  having    Conapa"cSitoymaendPoSienltfs-
       Induction," and W.   H.  Preece's   Paper

       Connected with Mains for Electric Lighting." Inst. Elec.

529.     Engrs. Jl. XX. pp. 466-469 [May 21, 1891].
530.
       On some Test Cases for the Maxwell-Boltzmann Doctrine

       regarding Distribution of Energy. Roy. Soc. Proc. L., 1892,

       pp. 79-88 [June 11, 1891]; Nature XLIV. pp. 355-358, Aug.
          13, 1891.
       On Periodic Motion of a Finite Conservative System. Brit.
       Assoc. Report, 1891, p. 566 [title only]; Phil. Mag. XXXII.
       PP- 375-383, Oct. 1891; pp. 555-560, Dec. 1891 [read to
                [§§  1-1o and 17-22, read at Brit. Assoc.]. [See No.
       R.S.] ;

             532-]
531. On a Theorem in Plane Kinetic Trigonometry suggested by

          Gauss's Theorem of Curvatura Integra. Phil. Mag. XXXII.

       pp. 471-473, Nov. 1891.
532. On Instability of Periodic Motion. Roy. Soc. Proc. L., 1892,
                                          PhiL Mag. xxx1I. pp. 555-
533.     pp. 194-200 [Nov. 26, 1891];     Proc. L., 1892, pp. 210-229
          560, Dec. 1891 [see No. 530].
       Presidential Address. Roy. Soc.

       [Nov. 30, 1891]; Nature XLV. pp. 110-112; Pop. Lect. n.
       pp. 502-508.

                         BIBLIOGRAPHY                                      1265

1892.
534. On the Dissipation of Energy. Fortnightly Review, March

          1892; Pop. Lect. ii. pp. 451-474.
535. Discussion of J. Swinburne's Paper on "Electrical Measuring

           Instruments." Inst. Civ. Engrs. Proc. CX. pp. 52-54 [Apr.

             26, 1892],
536. On a Decisive Test-Case Disproving the Maxwell-Boltzmann
      Doctrine regarding Distribution of Kinetic Energy. Roy.
      Soc. Proc. LI., 1892, pp. 397-399 [Apr. 28, 1892]; Phil.
      Mag. xxxni. pp. 466-467, May 1892; Nature XLVI. pp.

           21-22, May 5, 1892.
537. On a New Form of Air Leyden, with Application to the

           Measurement of Small Electrostatic Capacities. Roy. Soc.
        Proc. LII., 1893, pp- 6-10 [June 2, 1892]; Nature XLVI.
538.    pp. 212-213, June 30, 1892 ; Lum. Elec. XLV. pp. 139-141,
        July 16, 1892.
      Inaugural Address as President of the Institute of Marine

      Engineers. June 2, 1892. Rep. of Proc. at the Second
      Dinner of Inst. Marine Engineers, 1892, pp. 7-9.
539. On the Stability of Periodic Motion. Brit. Assoc. Report,
           1892, p. 638 (title only); Nature XLVI. p. 384, Aug. 18,

540.     1892.                                                 Brit. Assoc.
      On Graphic Solution of Dynamical Problems.

      Report, 1892, pp. 648-652 ; Nature XLVI. pp. 385-386,
      Aug. 18, 1892 ; Phil. Mag. XXXIV. pp. 443-448, Nov.

      1892.
541. Reduction of every Problem of Two Freedoms in Conservative
           Dynamics to the Drawing of Geodetic Lines on a Surface of
      given Specific Curvature. Brit Assoc. Report, 1892, pp.

      652-653; Nature XLVI. p. 386, Aug. 18, 1892.
      Discussion at the Brit. Assoc. on a National Physical Labora
542.
543.  tory ; Brit. Assoc. Report, 1892, p. 648 [title only] ; Nature
        XLVI. pp.383,    A" uMge.rc1a8to, r'1s89"2.Projection
      Generalisation of                                        performed   by Aid

      of Electrical Instruments.   Nature XLVI. pp. 490-491,

544.     Sept. 22, 1892.                                        representing the
545.                                                           Closed Surface.
      To Draw a Mercator Chart on one Sheet
                                                               L'Astronomie XI.
        whole of any Complexly Continuous                      p. 597, Oct. 20,
         Nature XLVI. pp. 541-542, Oct. 6, 1892.
      Comment le soleil a commence" a bruler.

        pp. 361-367, Oct. 1892; Nature XLVI.

      1892.                                    LII.
      Presidential
546.    [Nov. 30,   Address. Roy. Soc. Proc.   107-1           1893, pp.   I3,0108-39120  ;
547.                1892] ; Nature XLVII. pp.                   1 1, Dec.

      Pop. Lect. II. pp. 508-527.
      On the Velocity of Crookes' Cathode Stream. Roy. Soc. Proc.

      LII. 1893, pp. 331-332 [Dec. 8, 1892]; Nature XLVII. pp.
      164-165, Dec. 15, 1892.

1266 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

1893.

548. Isoperimetrical Problems. Roy. Instil. Proc. xiv., 1896, pp.
           111-119 [May 12, 1893]; Nature XLIX. pp. 515-518, Mar.
       29, 1894; Pop. Lect. ii. pp. 571-592.
549. On the Molecular Tactics of a Crystal. [The Robert Boyle
          Lecture, delivered before the Oxford University Junior
       Scientific Club, May 16, 1893.]                                   Baltimore Lectures,
       Appendix H, pp. 602-642, 1904.
550. On the Elasticity of a Crystal According to Boscovich. Roy.
           Soc. Proc. LIV., 1894, pp. 59-75 [June 15, 1893]; Phil.
          Mag. xxxvi. pp. 414-430, Nov. 1893; Baltimore Lectures,

551.     Appendix 1. pp. 643-661, 1904.
       Quartz, Piezo-electric Property of Quartz. Brit. Assoc. Report,

         1893, p. 691 [title only] ; Phil. Mag. xxxvi, 1893, pp. 331-
       342, Oct. 1893, and p. 384, Oct. 1893 ; l.um. Elec. L. pp.
                                   pp. 236-237, Nov. 4, 1893.
552.      37-41, Oct. 7, 1893, L.  Brit. Assoc. Report, 1893, pp. 691-
       On a Piezo-electric Pile.   pp. 342-343, Oct. 1893; Electrician

         692; Phil. Mag. xxxvi.

       xxxi. p. 664, Oct. 20, 1893; Lum. Elec. L. pp. 41-42,

       Oct. 7, 1893-
       Sur la thdorie de la pyro-electricite et de la piezo-electricite.
553.     Comp. Rend. cxvu. pp. 463-472 [Oct. 9, 1893]; Lum.
         Elec. L. pp. 238-242, Nov. 4, 1893 ; Phil. Mag. XXXVI.
       PP- 453-459, Nov. 1893.
554. Presidential Address. Roy. Soc. Proc. LIV., 1894, pp. 377-389
           [Nov. 30, 1893]; Nature XLIX. pp. 135-138, Dec. 7, 1893;
           Eel. Elec. VI. pp. 423-426, Feb. 29, 1896; Pop. Lect. n.

            PP- 529-557.

555. The Work of Joule : an Address on the Occasion of the Un
       veiling of Joule's Statue in Manchester Town Hall [Dec. 7,
       1893]. Nature XLIX. pp. 163-165, Dec. 14, 1893; P°P-
       Lect. H. pp. 558-570.

1894.

556.   On Homogeneous Division of Space. Roy. Soc. Proc. LV.
557.   1894, pp. i -i 6 [Jan. 1 8, 1894] ; Nature XLIX. pp. 445-448,
         Mar.  (8L, or1d8)94a, ndppM. a4c6le9a-4n71,(MaMgnaru.s)1. 5--,
       Kelvin                                                            1894.   Electrification
                                                                         On the

       of Air. Roy. Soc. Proc. LV1., 1894, pp. 84-94 [May 31,
       1894]; Errata LVII., 1895, p. xxxii. ; Nature L. pp. 280-
       283, July 19, 1884; Phil. Mag. xxxvin. pp. 225-235, Aug.
                                                                           i,
558.      1894; Eel. Elec. L. pp. 568-570,     Dec.                      Gait  1894.           --
       Kelvin (Lord), Maclean (Magnus),       and                                (Alexander).

       Preliminary Experiments to find if Subtraction of Water
       from Air electrifies it. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1894, pp. 554-
          555; Eel. Elec.
559.   Kelvin (Lord) and   n. p. 92, Jan.     12,   1895.                        Experiments
                           Gait (Alexander).       Preliminary
                                               --

       for Comparing the Discharge of a Leyden Jar through
       Different Branches of a Divided Channel. Brit. Assoc.

                      BIBLIOGRAPHY                                1267

      Report, 1894, pp. 555-556; Eel. £lec. II. pp. 35-37, Jan. 5,

             1895.
560. On the Resistance Experienced by Solids in Moving through

           Fluids. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1894, p. 557 [title only].
561. Towards the Efficiency of Sails, Windmills, Screw-propellers

           in Water and Air, and Aeroplanes. Letter dated Aug. 17,
           to Nature L., 1894, pp. 425-426, Aug. 30, 1894.
562. On the Doctrine of Discontinuity of Fluid Motion, in Con
           nection with the Resistance against a Solid Moving through
           a Fluid. Nature L., 1894, pp. 524-525, Sept. 27, p. 549,

             Oct. 4, pp. 573-575, Oct. 1 1, pp. 597-598, Oct. 18, 1894.
563. On the Resistance of a Fluid to a Plane kept Moving Uniformly

           in a Direction Inclined to it at a Small Angle. Phil. Mag.

           xxxv1n. pp. 409-4 13, Oct. 1894.        1895,  pp. 37-54
564. Presidential Address. Roy. Soc. Proc. LVII.,

           [Nov. 30, 1894].
1895.

565. Kelvin (Lord), Maclean (Magnus), and Ga1t (Alexander).--
          Electrification of Air and other Gases by Bubbling through

566.     Water and other Liquids. Roy. Soc. Proc. LVII., 1895,
        PP- 335-346 [Feb. 21, 1895]; Nature LI. pp. 495-499,
         Mar. 21, 1895 ; Eel. Elec. 1n. pp. 521-524, June 15, 1895.
      The Age of the Earth. Nature LI. pp. 438-440, Mar. 7,

567.     1895.        Maclean  (Magnus), and Gait (Alexander). -- On
568.  Kelvin (Lord),

      the Diselectrification of Air. Roy. Soc. Proc. LVII., 1895,

      pp. 436-439 [Mar. 21, 1895]; Nature LI. pp. 573-574,
        Apr. 1 1, 1895.
      Kelvin (Lord) and  Murray  (Erskine). --On   the Temperature

      Variation of the Thermal Conductivity of Rocks. Glas. Phil.

569.     Soc. Proc. XXVI. pp. 227-232 [Mar. 27, 1895]; Roy- Soc.
         Proc. LVIII. pp. 162-167 [May 30, 1895] ; Nature LII. p. 70,

        May 16, pp. 182-184, June 20, 1895 , Amer. Jl. Sci. L.

         (3rd Ser.) pp. 419-423, 1895.
      On the Electrification of Air. Glas. Phil. Soc. Proc. XXVI.

        pp. 233-243 [Mar. 27, 1895]; Nature LII. pp. 67-70, May

570.     16, 1895.
571.  On the Translational and Vibrational Energies of Vibrators

      after Impacts on Fixed Walls. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1895, p.
              [title only]; Nature HI., 1895,
         612   (Lord), Maclean (Magnus), and   P- 533, Sept. 26,  --189O5n.
      Kelvin                                   Ga1t (Alexander).

      the Electrifit *ion and Diselectrification of Air and Other

      Gases. Brit.       soc. Report, 1895, pp. 630-633 ; Nature
      LII. pp. 608        Oct. 17, 1895.

572.  Discours prononce, en re'ponse k l'Allocution du President de
573.
      l'Institut, k l'occasion du centenaire.      Comptes Rendus

      cxxI. pp. 581-582 [Oct. 28, 1895].
      Presidential Address. Roy. Soc. Proc. LIX., 1896, pp. 107-

1268 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

      124 [Nov. 30, 1895]; Nature LIII. pp. 110-115, Dec. 5,

             1895.
1896
574. Velocity of Propagation of Electrostatic Force [Letters] ;

          Nature LIU. p. 316, Feb. 6, 1896; Nature LIII. pp. 364-
           365, Feb. 20, 1896; Eel. lilec. vI. pp. 494-495, Mar. 14,

      1896.
      On the Generation of Longitudinal Waves in Ether. Roy. Soc.
575.     Proc. LIX., 1896, pp. 270-273 [Feb. 13, 1896]; Nature
        LIII. pp. 450-451, Mar. 12, 1896; Eel. Elec. vI. pp. 493-
         494, Mar. 14, 1896.
576. Note on Lord Blythswood's paper ["On the Reflection of
         Roentgen Light from Polished Speculum Metal Mirrors "] ;
577.     Roy. Soc. Proc. LIX., 1896, pp. 332-333 [read Mar. 19, 1896].
      On the Motion of a Heterogeneous Liquid, commencing from
         Rest with a given Motion of its Boundary. Edinb. Roy. Soc.

      Proc. XXI., 1897, pp. 119-122 [read Apr. 6, 1896]; Nature
      LIV. pp. 250-251, July 16, 1896.
      On Lippman's Colour Photography with Obliquely Incident
578.
579.    Light. Nature LIV.,     1896, pp. 12-13, May    7, 1896.     --  On
      Kelvin (Lord), Bottomley   (J. T.), and Maclean  (Magnus).
      Measurements of Electric Currents through Air at Different

      Densities down to One Five-millionth of the Density of

580.    Ordinary Air.      Brit. Assoc. Report, 1896,  pp. 710-711.  --On
      Kelvin (Lord),   Maclean (Magnus), and Gait      (Alexander).

      the Communication of Electricity from Electrified Steam

      to Air.     Brit. Assoc. Report, 1896, p. 721 [title only];

      Electrician XXXV1n. , 1897, p. 115; Nature LIV. pp. 622-

      623, Oct. 29, 1896.
581. On the Molecular Dynamics of Hydrogen Gas, Oxygen Gas,
      Ozone, Peroxide of Hydrogen, Vapour of Water, Liquid

      Water, Ice, and Quartz Crystal. Brit Assoc. Report, 1896,

582.     pp. 721-724.  Beattie (J.  C), and Smolan     (M. S. de). -- Ex
      Kelvin (Lord),

      periments on the Electrical Phenomena Produced in Gases

      by Roentgen Rays, by Ultra-violet Light, and by Uranium.

      Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXI. pp. 393-428, 1897. Part I.
      Read Dec. 21, 1896; Nature LV. pp. 199-200, Dec. 31,
      1896. Part II. Read Feb. 15, 1897; Nature LV. pp.
      472-474, Mar. 1 8, 1897; Electrician  xxxvm. p. 401,
                                            1897; Nature LV.         Jan.
      22, 1897; Part III. Read Mar. 1,                                pp.

      498-499, Mar. 25, 1897; Phil. Mag. XLV. pp. 277-278,
      Mar. 1898; Part IV. Read Feb. 1, 1897; Nature LV. pp.

      343-347, Feb. 11, 1897. Part V. Read Apr. 4, 1897;
      Nature LVI. p. 20, May 6, 1897.
      On Atomic Configurations in Molecules of Gases according to
583.                   Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xxI. p. 5 1 1 [read Dec.

      Boscovich.

      21, 1896, title only]; Nature LV. p. 238, Jan. 7, 1897.

                     BIBLIOGRAPHY                                                    1269

1897

584.  On Osmotic Pressure against an Ideal Semi-permeable Mem
585.    brane. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXI. pp. 323-325 [read Jan.
         18, 1897]; Nature LV. pp. 272-273, Jan. 21, 1897.

      On a Differential Method of Measuring Differences of Vapour
         Pressure, of Liquids at one Temperature and at Different

      Temperatures.  Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXI. pp. 429-432

      [read Jan. 18, 1897]; Nature LV. pp. 273-274, Jan. 21,

586.     1897.
587.  Osmotic Pressure [Letter]; Nature LV. p. 272, Jan. 21, 1897.
      Note on a Method suggested for Measuring Vapour Pressures.
588.
        Nature LV., 1896-97, pp. 295-296, Jan. 28, 1897.
589.  Crystallization according to Rule. Edinb. Roy. Soc Proc.

        xxi. p. 513 [read Feb. I, 1897, title only].
      On Configurations of Minimum Potential Energy in Clusters

        of Homogeneous Molecules with Application to the Theory

      of Crystalline forms. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. p. 5 13 [read
      Feb. 15, 1897, title only].

590.  Ke--lviEnle(cLtorircd),EqBueialitbtireium(J.  Carruthers), and  Smolan (M. S. de).
591.                                                between Uranium
                                                                        and an Insulated

      Metal in its Neighbourhood.                   Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xxn.
      ii,pp. 131-133 [read Mar. I, 1897]; Nature LV. pp. 447-448,
      Mar.       1897 ; Eel. Elec. XI. pp. 119-120, Apr. 10, 1897.

      On Models illustrating the Dynamical Theory of Hemihedral
                     Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXI. p. 514 [Mar. I,
      Crystals.

             1897]-  and Maclean                    (Magnus). -- On   Electrical Pro
592. Kelvin (Lord)
      perties of Fumes proceeding from Flames and Burning

593.    Charcoal. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXI. pp. 313-322 [read
594.    Apr. 5, 1897] ; Nature LV. pp. 592-595, Apr. 22, 1897.
595.  Contact Electricity of Metals; Roy. Instil. Proc. xv., 1899,
596.
      pp. 521-554 [May 21, amplified Feb. 1898]; Phil. Mag.
597.    XLVI. pp. 82-120, July 1898.
      Discussion of Mr. Mordey*s Paper              on " Dynamoes."                  Inst.
      Elec. Engrs. Jl. xxvi. p. 610 [May 27, 1897].
      Contact Electricity and Electrolysis according to Father

        Boscovich. Nature LVI. pp. 84-85, May 27, 1897.
      Note to "The Electrification of Air by Uranium and its

      Compounds," by J. Carruthers Beattie. Edinb. Roy. Soc.
      Proc. xxi. pp. 471-472 [read June 7, 1897]; Phil. Mag.
        XLIV. pp. 107-108, July 1897.
      Kelvin (Lord), Maclean (Magnus),              and  Gait         (Alexander). --

      Electrification of Air, of Vapour of Water, and of other Gases.

      Roy. Soc. Proc. LXI. pp. 483-485 [read June 17, 1897];
        Phil. Trans. (A), cxci.. 1898,
598.  Kelvin (Lord) and Maclean                     (pMpa. g1n8u7s-)2.2--8. Leakage  from

      Electrified Metal Plates and Points placed above and below

      Uninsulated Flames. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXII. pp.

1270 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

        38-46 [read July 5, 1897]; Nature LVI. pp. 233-235, July 8,

             1897-
599. Address on Presenting the Keith Prize, the Makdougall-

           Brisbane Prize, and the Neill Prize. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.
          XXI. pp. 518-522 [July 19, 1897].
600. On the Fuel-Supply and the Air-Supply of the Earth. Brit.

            Assoc. Report, 1897, pp. 553-554.

60 1. Chairman's Opening Address. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXII.

602.       pp. 2-10 [read Dec. 6,  1A8ir97o].f  the  World.  Edinb. Roy. Soc.
        On the Food, Fuel, and

        Proc. XXII. p. 701 [read Dec. 6, 1897, title only].
        The Age of the Earth as an Abode fitted for Life. [Address
603.       1897.] Journ. Victoria Institute, London, XXXI. pp. 11-35,
           1899; Ann. Rep. Smithsn. Inst. 1897, pp. 337-357, 1898 ;
        Phil. Mag. XLVII. pp. 66-90, Jan. 1899 [with additions}

1898.

604.    On Thermodynamics of Volta-contact Electricity. Edinb. Roy.
605.      Soc. Proc. xxn. pp. 118-125 [read Feb. 21, 1898].

        On Thermodynamics founded on Motivity and Energy.

        Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xxn. pp. 126-130 [read Mar. 21,

             1898].
606. The Dynamical Theory of Refraction, Dispersion, and Anomalous

           Dispersion. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1898, pp. 782-783; Nature

607.      LVIII. pp. 546-547, Oct. 6, 1898.
        Continuity in Undulatory Theory of Condensational-rarefactional

          Waves in Gases, Liquids, and Solids, of Distortional Waves
          in Solids, of Electric Waves in all Substances capable of
          Transmitting them, and of Radiant Heat, Visible Light,

        Ultra-violet Light. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1898, pp. 783-787 ;
        Nature Lix. pp. 56-57, Nov. 17, 1898; Phil. Mag. XLVI.

        pp. 494-500, Nov. 1898.
        On Graphic Representations of the Two Simplest Cases of a
608.
609.    Single Wave ; (a) Condensational-rarefractional,     (6) Dis
        tortional. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1898, p. 792.
        On the Reflection and Refraction of Solitary Plane Waves at a

          Plane Interface between Two Isotropic Elastic Mediums --

        Fluid, Solid, or Ether. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXII. pp.

        366-378 [read Dec. 19, 1898]; Phil. Mag. XLVII. pp. 179-
        191, Feb. 1899.

1899.

610. Application of Sellmeier's Dynamical Theory to the Dark Lines
                                  Sodium-vapour. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.
        xDxj,ii.D2   produced by  [read Feb. 6, 1899]; Phil. Mag. XLVII.
                    pp. 523-531
        pp. 302-308, Mar. 1899.
        On the Motion of a Liquid in an Ellipsoidal Hollow. [A con
6 1 1.    tinuation of a paper in Proc., Dec. 7, 1885]. (See No. 441.)
          Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXII. p. 724 [read Feb. 6, 1899,
        title only].

                       BIBLIOGRAPHY                                          1271

612. On the Application of Force within a Limited Space, required

       to produce Spherical Solitary Waves, or Trains of Periodic

       Waves, of both Species, Equivoluminal and Irrotational, in

       an Elastic Solid. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXII.                        p. 726 [read
       May i, 1899, title only]; Phil. Mag. XLVII.                           pp. 480-493,

       May 1899; XLVIII. pp. 227-236, Aug. 1899, pp. 388-393,
       Oct. 1899 ; also read before London Math. Soc. xxxi. p.

       147 [June 8, 1899, title only].
       Magnetism and Molecular Rotation.
613.   Electrician XLIII.                                              [Correspondence.]
       1899, p. 574, Aug.            pn. ,41118, 99Ju. ly
                                                           14,  1899,  p. 532, Aug. 4,

614. Magnetism and Molecular Rotation. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.
       xxn. pp. 631-635 [read July 17, 1899]; Phil. Mag. XLVIII.
       pp. 236-239, Aug. 1899.
615. Apparent Dark Lightning Flashes. Nature LX., 1899, p. 341,
       Aug. 10, 1899.
6 16. Blue Ray of Sunrise over Mont Blanc. Letter to Nature LX.

617.      pp. 411  and 442,          Aug. 31,     189E9d[inlebtt.erRodya.tedSocA.ugP.ro2c7. ].XXIli.
       Chairman's     Opening           Address.

       pp. 2- 1 1 [delivered Dec. 4, 1899] ; Nature LXI. p. 166, Dec.

       14, 1899.

1900.

6 1 8. Nineteenth -Century Clouds over the Dynamical Theory of
       Heat and Light. Roy. Inst. Proc. xvi., 1902, pp. 363-397
       J[lA.pSr.ci.27X, II1. 90p0.]   ; Phil. Mag. II. pp.      1-40, July   1901 ; Amer.
                                     391, 1901 ; Baltimore                    Appendix B,
                                                                  Lectures,

             pp. 486-527, 1904.
619. On the Motion produced in an Infinite Elastic Solid by the

           Motion through the Space occupied by it of a Body acting on

       it only by Attraction or Repulsion. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.
       XXIII. pp. 218-235 [read July r6, 1900]; Phil. Mag. L. pp.
       181-198, Aug. 1900; Congres Internationale de Physique k
       1'Exposition de 1900 II. pp. 1-22; Baltimore Lectures.
           Appendix A, pp. 468-485, 1904.
620. On the Number of Molecules in a Cubic Centimetre of a Gas.

       Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXIII. p. 435 [read July 16, 1900,
             title only].
621. On the Duties of Ether for Electricity and Magnetism.                   Phil.

622.      Mag. L. pp. 305-307, Sept. 1900.                                   [Address.]
       On Transmission of Force through a Solid.                             1900, title

          London, Math. Soc. Proc. XXXIII. p. 2 [Nov. 8,
       only].
623. The Transmission of Force. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXIli.

       p. 442 [read Dec. 17, 1900, title only].

1901.

624. One-dimensional Illustrations of the Kinetic Theory of Gases.
           Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXIII. p. 443 [read Jan. 21, 1901,
       title only].

1272 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

625.   Discussion on the Magnetic Effects of Electric Convection
626.
         opened by Dr. V. Cre'mieu. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1901, p.
          531 [title only]; Nature LXIV. p. 586, Oct. 10, 1901.
       On the Clustering of Gravitational Matter in any part of the

         Universe. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1901, pp. 563-568; Nature
         LXIV. pp. 626-629, Oct. 24, 1901 ; Phil. Mag. III. pp. 1-9,
         Jan. 1902; Baltimore Lectures, Appendix D, pp. 532-540,

             1904.
627. Obituary Notice of Professor Tait. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.

          xxIII. pp. 498-504 [read Dec. 2, 1901].

1902.

628. A New Specifying Method for Stress and Strain in an Elastic

629.      Solid. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXIV. pp. 97-101 [read Jan.
630.      20, 1902]; Nature LXV. p. 407, Feb. 27, 1902; Phil. Mag.
         III. pp. 95-97, Jan. 1902, pp. 444-448, Apr. 1902.
       Molecular Dynamics of a Crystal. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.
         xx1v. pp. 205-224 [read Jan. 20, 1902]; Phil. Mag. 1v.
         pp. 139-156, July 1902; Nature LXV. p. 407, Feb. 27,
         1902 ; Baltimore Lectures, Appendix J, pp. 662-680, 1904.
       Discussion of W. M. Mordey and B. M. Jenkin's paper on
         "Electrical Traction on Railways." Inst. Civ. Engrs. Proc.

       CXLIX. pp. 87-89 [Feb. 1 8, 1902].
       jEpinus Atomized. [From the Jubilee Volume          presented to
631.   Prof.  Bosscha in Nov.             Phil. Mag.  HI.  pp. 257-283,
       Mar.   1902; Baltimore               Appendix  E,   pp. 541-568,
                               1901.]
                               Lectures,

       1904.
632. Animal Thermostat.  Brit. Assoc. Report, 1902, pp. 543-546 ;
       Nature LXVII. pp. 401-402, Feb. 26, 1903; Phil. Mag. V.

       pp. 198-202, Feb. 1903.

633.   Becquerel Rays and Radio-activity. [Letter correcting the
         Report of the Physical Soc. Meeting on Oct. 31.] Nature
         LXVII. p. 103, Dec. 4, 1902.

1903.

634.   Reflection and Refraction of Light. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.
635.
636.     XXIV. p. 606 [read Jan. 19, 1903, title only].
637.   The Scientific Work of Sir George Stokes. Nature LXVII.

         PP- 337-338, Feb. 12, 1903.                       Nineteenth
       Creative Power. Speech at University College.

          Century and After, June 1903.
       On the Electro-ethereal Theory of the Velocity of Light in

       Gases, Liquids, and Solids. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1903, p.

       535; Phil. Mag. VI. pp. 437-442, Oct. 1903; Baltimore

638.      Lectures xX. pp. 463-467.
       Discussion on the Nature of the Emanations from Radium

         [opened by Prof. E. Rutherford]. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1903,
         PP- 535-537 ; Nature LXVIII. p. 609, Oct. 22, 1903 ; Phil.
          Mag. VII. pp. 220-222, Feb. 1904.
639. Recollections of Professor J. P. Nichol (Speech by Lord

         BIBLIOGRAPHY                           1273

       Kelvin when unveiling a stained-glass window in the Bute

       Hall in Memory of J. P. Nichol).  Nature LXVIII. pp. 623

       and 624, Oct. 29, 1903.

1904.

640.   On Deep- Water Two- Dimensional Waves produced by any
         given Initiating Disturbance. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXV (i).
641.     pp. 185-196 [read Feb. 1, 1904]; Phil. Mag. vII. pp. 608-
642.     620, June 1904. [See No. 642.]

       On the Destruction of Cambric by Radium Emanations. Phil.
          Mag. v1I. p. 233, Feb. 1904.

       On the Front and Rear of a Free Procession of Waves in Deep
         Water. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xxv(i). pp. 311-327 [read
         June 20, 1904]; Phil. Mag. vm. pp. 454-470, Oct. 1904;
         Nature LXX. p. 263, July 4, 1904. [See Nos. 640 and

           647.]
643. Electrical Insulation in Vacuum. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1904,

           p. 472 (title only) ; Phil. Mag. vm., 1904, pp. 534-538, Oct.

             1904.
644. Plan of a Combination of Atoms having the Properties of

           Polonium or Radium. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1904, p. 472
           (title only) ; Phil. Mag. v1a. pp. 528-534, Oct. 1904.
645. Models of Radium Atoms to give out a. and ft Rays respec
           tively. Nature LXX. p. 516, Sep. 22, 1904.
646. On the Living Cell. [Speech at St. George's Hospital Medical
            School.] Nature LXXI. p. 13, Nov. 3, 1904.
1905.

647.   Deep- Water Ship-Waves.  Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xxv(i).
648.
649.     pp. 562-587 [read Jan. 23, 1905]; Phil. Mag. IX. pp. 733-
          757, June 1905. [See Nos. 642 and 648.]
       On Deep-Sea Ship-Waves. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xxv(ii).
         pp. 1060-1084 [read July 17, 1905]; Phil. Mag. XI. pp. 1-
          25, Jan. 1906; Nature LXXI. p. 382, Feb. 16, 1905. [See
          Nos. 647 and 651.]
       On the Kinetic and Statistical Equilibrium of Ether in Ponder

       able Matter at any Temperature. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1905,

650.     PP- 346-347 ; Phil. Mag. X. pp. 285-290, Sept. 1905 ; Nature
         LXXII. p. 641, Oct. 26, 1905.
       Plan of an Atom to be capable of Storing an Electrion with

       Enormous Energy for Radio-activity.  Phil. Mag. x. pp.

       695-698, Dec. 1905.

1906.

651. Initiation of Deep-Sea Waves of Three Classes: (1) From a
       Single Displacement ; (2) From a Group of Equal and
       Similar Displacements ; (3) By a Periodically Varying
       Surface-pressure. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. xxvI. pp. 399-
       436 [read Jan. 22, 1906]; Phil. Mag. XIII. pp. 1-36, Jan.
       1907. [See No. 648.]
652. Letter from Mr. Barber Starkey describing Remarkable Results
VOL. II                                     2V

1274 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

         of a Discharge of Lightning upon an Oak Tree ; with a Note

          by Lord Kelvin. Phil. Mag. XII. pp. 62-63, Ju'y 1906.
653. The Recent Radium Controversy. [Letter.] Nature LXXIV.

             p. 539, Sept. 27, 1906.
1907.

654. On the Means of Testing Experimentally the Motion of the
           Earth Relatively to the Ether. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc.

655.     XXVII. p. 375 [read Jan. 21, 1907, title only].
656.   On Homer Lane's Problem of a Spherical Gaseous Nebula.

         Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXVII. p. 375 [read Jan. 21, 1907,
         title only] ; Nature LXXV. pp. 368-369, Feb. 1907.

       Discussion of Mr. Highfield's Paper on "Transmission of
         Energy by Direct Current." Inst. Elec. Engrs. Jl. xxxvin.

657.     p. 502 [Mar. 7, 1907].                             Phil.
658.   An Attempt to Explain the Radio-activity of Radium.
       Mag. XIII. pp. 313-316, Mar. 1907.
659.   Discussion on the Constitution of the Atom, opened by Prof.
       E. Rutherford. Brit. Assoc. Report, 1907, p. 439 (title
       only); Nature LXXVI. p. 458, Aug. 29, 1907.
       On the Motions of Ether produced by Collisions of Atoms or

       Molecules, containing or not containing Electrions. Brit.

       Assoc. Report, 1907, p. 439 (title only); Electrician LIX.
       pp. 7H-7I6, Aug. 16, 1907; Phil. Mag. XIV. pp. 317-324,
       Sept. 1907; Nature LXXVI. p. 457, Aug. 29, 1907; Ed.
       Elec Lll. pp. 415-417, Sept 21, 1907 ; LIU. pp. 14-16,
       Oct. 5, 1907.

1908.

660. The Problem of a Spherical Gaseous Nebula, with a Note by G.

       Green. Edinb. Roy. Soc. Proc. XXVIII. pp. 259-302 [MS.
       read Mar. 9, 1908], issued separately May 6, 1908 ; Phil.
       Mag. XV. pp. 687-711, June 1908; XVI. pp. 1-23, July

66 1.     1908.                      Matter from  Atomic Origins.
       On the Formation of Concrete  Bottomley.]  Phil. Mag. XV.

         [Communicated by Dr. J. T.

         PP. 397-413, Apr. 1908.

     Lord Kelvin was also one of the editors of the Philosophical
Magazine from 1871 till his death in 1907.

                    APPENDIX C

                    LIST OF PATENTS

1854.    2547. --Thomson (W.), Rankine (W. J. M'Q.), and Thomson
1858.      (J.). Improvements in electrical conductors for telegraphic
            communication.
1860.                                              in testing and working electric
1865.    329. -- Improvements
1867.
1870.    43t7e.le--graImphpsr.ovem(Denistsclaiimn earppaadrdaetdus  in 1871.)      and  measur
1871.                                                                for applying

1873.    ing resistance to the motion of rotating wheels, shafts, or
1876.
         20o4t7h.e--r rTohtaotmingsonbo(dWie.s). and Jenkin (F.).                  Improvements   in
1879.
1880.      the means of telegraphic communication.                                 Improvements
1 88 1.
         1784. --Thomson (W.) and Varley (C. F.).
           in electric telegraphs.
         2147. -- Improvements in receiving or recording instruments
           for
         3069.  e--lecItmripcrotveelemgeranptshs.  in  electric     telegraph      transmitting,

         receiving, and recording instruments, and in clocks.
         252. -- Improvements in transmitting, receiving, and record

         81i0n.g--inIsmtrpurmoveenmtsenftosr      electric telegraphs.             for giving
                                                   in clocks and apparatus

            uniform motion.                                                        Improvements

         2086. --Thomson (Sir W.) and Jenkin (F.).
         in telegraphic apparatus.
                --
         1095.  --  Improvements                   in telegraphic apparatus.
         1339.      Improvements                   in the mariner's compass and in the

         34mc5la2eia.mn--esrImoapfnrdoavsmecmeermetnaotinrsainngdinumaapnpdoafracatolutresrreacftotiiornngn--aviigt1sa8t7ioe7nr.)raolrs.deep(D-siesa

            soundings.                             in the mariner's compass and 1n

         4876. -- Improvements
         67a9p. p--liaInmcepsrovfeomr eanstcsertaiinningtheandmacorirnreerc'tsing    its errors.
                                                                                   compass and    in

         appliances for correcting its errors.
         7308132. --. --ImImprporvoevmemenetnsts
                                                  in navigational    sounding apparatus.          in
                                                    in regulating   electric currents, and

         the apparatus or means employed therein.

                                                   1275

1276 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

1881.   5668. -- Improvements                   in dynamo-electric machinery, and
1883.   20a2p8p.a--ratIumsprcoovnenmeecntetsd  therewith,

1884.                                          in apparatus and processes for gener

1885.      ating, regulating, and measuring electric currents.
1886.
1888.   4617. --Apparatus for generating, regulating, measuring,
1889.
        5566r77e65c..or----dinIImmg,pprroaovnvedemdeinnntteasgvrigaatinitniogtnhaeel lemcsatorruiicnnedrcin'usgrrecanoptmsp.apraastsus.and in the
1890.             for ascertaining and correcting
1891.      means  New or improved suspensions                  its errors.               incan
                                                               for electrical
 1892.  4655. --
 1893.
        descent lamps.
        5335.-- Thomson (Sir W.) and Ferranti (S. Z. de). Im
        64p1r0o.ve--meInmtsproivnemdyennatms o-elienctrbicreamkinagchineerlye.ctric
                                                                                     contact  to

        10p,r5e3v0e.n--t  over-heating by imperfect contact.             (J. T).         Safety

                          Thomson (Sir W.) and Bottomley
          fuses for electric circuits.
        11,106. -- Improvements in apparatus for measuring electric

        currents.
        91021,264. 0--. --ImApnrovimedprovaepdparnaatuvsigatfioornaml eassouurnindgingthme aecfhfiicniee.ncy of

        18a,n03e5l.ec--triEcleccitrrcousitta(taicmeanpdpeadra, tuOs ctf.or4,me1a8s9u7r)i.ng potentials.
        18,0350. -- An improved ampere-gauge and connections.
        1 8,03 5 £. -- Improved apparatus for continually measuring
          potentials or currents.

        4923. -- Improvements of compass cards for use on board
                 --(aImmepnrdoevedm, eJnutlsy
           ship                                1, 1890).  for  water,    steam,      or  other
        5471.                                  in valves

          liquids or gases.                    for measuring and recording electric

        1 5.769. --Apparatus

        currents.
        8959. -- Improvements in the mariner's compass.
                 ----AImnpriomvpermoveendts
        1004.                                  indicator for electric potentials.        other
        3864.                                    in valves for water, steam, or

        18li,q4u36id.s--oIrmgparsoevs.ed apparatus for measuring and recording

        electric currents.
        10,230. --An improved electric condenser.
                 --
        2198.    --  Improvements              in balances.    electric  currents.
        2199.        An instrument             for measuring

        5733--- Improved arrangement for reading the deflections of
        electric instruments.
        24,471. -- Improvements
                 --                            in electric supply meters.
        24,841.  --       Improvements         in the mariner's compass.                      and
        24,979.           Improvements         in instruments for measuring

        recording electric pressures and currents.

                             LIST OF PATENTS                                                                          1277

1 894.  1 5,034. -- Improvements in instruments for measuring electric
1895.
        22c,u6r6r1e.nt--s. Improvements  in apparatus for indicating and
1896.
1897.   24r,e8c6o8r.di--ngImeplerocvtreicmesnutpsplyi.n recording instruments for tele
1898.
1900.   42g0r7a.p--hicImapnrdovoetmheenr tspurpinoseinss.truments for measuring electric
1902.
           currents.
1903.
1904.   18,438. -- Improved coil for electric instruments.
1905.   25,178. -- Improvements in navigational sounding machines.

1906.   18,522. ---An improved electrolytic apparatus for the pro
1907.
          duction of alkali.             in electric  measuring instruments.
                                         indicating    and recording electric
        21,716. -- Improvements
        3937. -- Apparatus for

        17p,2re6s7s.u--re   and current.           high-pressure                                                      voltmeter.
                           Improved electrostatic
        22,030*. -- Improvements in and connected with navigational

        22s,o0u3n1d*in. g--  machines.             mariner's                                                          compass.    of
        22,032*. --          Improvements in the   mariner's                                                          compass.
        28,588*. --          Improvements in the                                                                      and damper
                             Improved magnetic        brake

        vibrations.
        221244,,,568299567**...------K-IeImmlvppirrnoovvee(dmLoernsdtos;u, ndiBninlagthkeimstmaocnahriinn(eeR.r.')s,
                                                                                                                      compass.    and
                                                                                                                      Hope (W.),

           Richards          (G. B.). Improvements in liquid meters.
                             Improvements in and connected with navigational
        20,813*. --

           sounding machines, especially for flying soundings.

        20,8 1 3 a*. -- Improvements in and connected with naviga

           tional sounding machines, especially for flying soundings.

        26,759*. -- An improved apparatus for adjusting the compass

           at sea without    sights.     apparatus for adjusting                                                                  the
                               improved
        26,7593*. --An

        26c,o1m3p2a*s.s--aAtnseiampwriotvheomutenstighitns. connection with navigational

          sounding machines, especially for flying soundings.

        1 2,783*. -- A combined level and shadow pin for use at sea in

           connection with the mariner's compass.

        23,570*. --An improved compass suspension for use on

        board ship.

   N.B. --Those patents marked with an asterisk in the above list were taken
in the name of Lord Kelvin and of the firm Kelvin and James White, Ltd.


                         INDEX

Aberdeen, Earl of, 850                                      of Scotland Liberal Unionist Associa
Absolute thermometric scale, 207                            tion, 911 ; at opening of Siemens
Absolute units, 227, 341, 418. 793                          Laboratory, King's College, 912 ; at
Absolute zero of temperature, 267,                          Glasgow University Club, 915 ; on
                                                            Navigation to Liverpool Mercantile
   269, 285                                                 Marine Association, 916 ; at British
Academic des Sciences, 304, 775, 888,                       Association, Edinburgh, 924 ; at
                                                            Lancashire Watch Company dinner,
   »33. 979. "77
Ac<demy of Sciences of Berlin, 279,

    (17, 922, 970                                           930 ; at Royal Academy Banquets,
Accident at Largs, 411                                      93'. 99S ! at Blackburn Technical
                                                            School, 934; at Mechanics' Institute,
Ad·ms, J. C. , 226, 244
Adcresses by Lord Kelvin : Glasgow                          Crewe, 944 ; at Wolverhampton
                                                            Chamber of Commerce Banquet, 944;
Kinquet, 389 ; Atlantic Telegraph                           at Centenary of Institut de France,
Binquet, 501 ; at acceptance of                             948 ; at Kelvin Jubilee, 976, 985 ;
friedom of    CoitfySeocftioGnlasAg,owD, un5d0e3e, ;        at Glasgow Graduation Ceremony,
as President
52 ; on Geological Time, 540 ; of
Geological Dynamics, 547 ; on Non-                          1005 ; at Liberal Unionist Meeting,
                                                            Glasgow, 1008; Stokes's Jubilee, 298,

seuarian Education , 590 ; as Presi-                        303 ;    at Glasgow University      gth
de1t of British Association, 302, 599,                      Jubilee    Celebration, 1158,   1159;
                                                            at the                          Watt
1012, 1025, 1028 ; as President of                                   opening of the James

the Glasgow Geological Society, 643;                        Laboratory, 1160 ; at Rochester,
on the Tides, 657 ; at British As
sociation, Bristol, 662; on naviga-                         U.S.A., to students, 1167; at
                                                            Cornell, U.S.A., 1168; at Phila
                                                            delphia, U.S.A., 1168; at the un
tio1, 663 ; at South Kensington on                          veiling of the bust of Dr. John
Electrical Measurement,  A6, 6G8,las1g0o3w0 ,
as President of Section                        ;

f,7\\ on Magnetism (Lecture), 758 ;                         Hopkinson, at Cambridge, 1174;
oPnretshideenCtomopfaSsescti(oLnectAu,re)Y,or7k5, 87;70as;  at the Installation as Lord Chancellor
at the Institution of Civil Engineers,
                                                            of Glasgow University, 1184; at the
                                                            unveiling of the Faraday Memorial,
                                                                1191 ; at the Chemical Society
"On Electric Units of Measure-                                  dinner, 1198
n1mt," 792 ; at Midland Institute,                          Admiralty, the, and the compass, 705,
                                                                710, 714, 721, 722, 732. 890 ; and
Bimingham, 798, 1113, 1139; as                                  the sounding machine, 660, 722 ;
President of Section A. Montreal,                               and lighthouses, 659, 660, 679
8"o,O,n              ; at Philadelphia,                     Admiralty Committee on types of war
         1017, 1032  Theory of Light,"                         ships, 733, 1187; on education of
                                                               naval officers, 735 ; on designs of
          the Wave                                             ships of war, 583, 587, 593, 731
                                                            Aeolotropic, 686, 829, 1120
8o1, 1035 ; Bangor University Col-                          Aepinus, mathematical theory of elec
legj, 195, 845 ; Jubilee of Electric
Teegraph, 869; on Ship -Waves

(L-cture), 748; Presidential, Institu-                         tricity, 138. 139, 1078
tio1 of Electrical Engineers, 365,                          Aepinus atomized, 1078
64). 88 1, 1043; as President of                            Aeroplanes, 937, 1122, 1168,
Rcyal Society, 903, 929, 939, 950,

1o;8, 1088 ; as President of West                                                         1201

                                                      1279

1280 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

Agamemnon, the, 343, 353                  Atlantic Telegraph Company, forma
Age of the earth, 535-550, 924, 941,
                                             tion of, 338
    942, 997, 999, 1095
Age of the sun's heat, 417, 421, 422,     Atmospheric electricity, 320, 324, 399.
                                          401, 407, 410, 417, 1020
                                          Atom, constitution of the, 510, 602.
    474. 865                                 1075, Io8l, II7S, 1184, 1198, I2OX
Agnosticism, 1089, 1161                   Atoms, size of, 474, 566, 602, 79 1 .
                                             1031, 1074, 1172, IEOI
Airey, Rev. J. A. L., 74, 75, 76
Airy, Sir George, 226, 700, 701, 705,     Aurora borealis, 228

708, 710, 730, 736 ; mathematical         Available energy, doctrine of, 288, 294.
tracts, 10

Aitken, Dr. John, 666                     Ave9b'3u.ry,i°73Lord, Rt. Hon. (Sir John

Aix-les-Bains, visits to, 933, 937, 946,      Lubbock), 769, 770, 1120, 1170
   1147, 1153, n6o, 1171, 1177, 1178

     1188, 1190, 1202, 1204               Avogadro, 146
Albert medal, the, 758                             Professor W. E.  ,o5f21,Th6o7m2,s7o7n3".;
Alternating currents, 685,   896,  960,   Ayrton,    reminiscences
                                             913;

   "97                                    laboratory and class, 297, 445, 466
                                                   committee on electrical    stva.n'
American Association for the Advance               774 ; a determination of
                                          "489 ;
   ment of Science, 807
American Institute of Electrical En       dards,

                                          878, 1040
                                          Aytoun, Roger St. Clair, 48, 51
gineers, 1166                             Azimuth mirror, 682, 690, 711, 718

Ampere, 325, 756, 904              755,   Bakerian lectures, 311, 317. 909
Ampere medal, the, 936                    Balfour, Rt. Hon. Arthur James, 869,
Ampere, the, 775, 901, 1119
Amperemeters and voltmeters,

     1119                                 871, 876, 902, 911, 912, 929, 1149,

Anderson, Captain Sir James, 483,              1170, 1172
                                          Balfour, Frank, death of, 785
    493. 5°°. 5°S- 5°7. 869                                                   141,
Anderson, Sir James, M.P. , 388           Baltimore Lectures, 810-839,
Andrews, Professor Thomas, 426, 434,
                                              856, 961, 1032,   1080, 1082, 1125,
    600, 612, 615, 635, 654, 665, 666,                          809
                                             "73                College, 193, 298,
    667
Antarctic regions, on ice in, 874,        Baltimore, visit to,
                                          Bangor, University

    958                                      845                              156
Arago. Fran9ois, 105, 115, 118, 129,      Bar, reading for the, 51, 68
                                          Barclay, Principal Thomas, 554,     Uni
    325. 834                              Barr, Professor Archibald, 1160
Arago medal, the, 979
Arctic regions, on ice in, 536, 875       Barton, Richard, 49
Argon, discovery of, 937, 939, 945        Barus, Carl, 943
Argyll, Duke of, 283, 610, 663, 943,      Bashforth, Rev. F. D., 76
                                          Bazaar, the great, at Glasgow
1209        Edward,
              Lord,
Armitage,               127                  versity, 890
Armstrong,           889                  Beaumont, Elie de, 108, 116, 122,

Arsenical Poisoning, Royal Commission         3<>4
                                          Becquerel, Antoine Cesar, 128, 914
   on, 1157, 1165            H. , 1194    Becquerel, Edmond, 904, 1066, 1148
Asquith, Rt. Hon. Herbert                 Becquerel Rays, 997
Astronomical clock, 677                   Belfast, British Association Meetings
Athenteum Club. 564, 1 170
Athenaum, the, correspondence in,            at, 234, 649, 1171
                                          Belfast (Royal) Academical Institttion,
   330, 331, 1119
Atlantic Telegraph, 410, 419, 431,            5, I2O2
                                          Belfast Natural History Society, 856
435, 882 ; history, 325 ; commence        Belfast, opening of laboratories at,
ment of laying in 1857, 343 ; break
ing of the cable, 344 ; experimental           1202
trip, 354 ; the 1858 expedition, 356 ;    Belfast, Queen's College in, 134,635,
rejoicings at the success of, 365 ;
failure of the cable, 384 ; the 1865           1205
expedition and its failure, 482 ; the     Belfast, University of, 1205. 1206
1866 expedition and its success,          Bell, Alexander Graham, 670, 68:
                                          Bell, Sir James, Bart., 981
491 ; lecture on the, 506
                                          Beresford. John, 61

                                  INDEX                                          1281

Berlin Academy of Sciences, 279, 617,     Brewster, Sir David, 104, 115, 389,
   922, 970
                                             502,  516,  C5h2a3r,les599Tilston,  357,  362,
Bible Society of Scotland, National,      Bright,  Sir

     1090                                 365, 418, 500, 869 ; promoter of
Bicycle tyres, 949                        Atlantic cable, 338  ; Chief Engineer
                                          of Atlantic Cable    Co., 339, 356,
Bidder, G. P., 481, 732
Biot, J. B. . 115, 119, 122, 904, 948     869 ; receives knighthood, 365 ; and
Birkbeck Institution, 1155                L. Clark on electrical units, 417,
Birmingham and Midland Institute,
                                             418, 482
   798, 1104, 1113, 1139
Birmingham University, 935, 1206          BriogfhSt, irCCha. rlTes.B(.t,he3y5o7unger), his Life
Black, James, 254, 1158
Blackall, Rev. Samuel, 90, 97, 167,       Bright, Edward, 869
                                          Bright, Rt. Hon. John, 1128

     177                                  Bristol University College, 663
                                          British Association meetings : 1843,
Blackburn, Colin (Lord Blackburn),        Cork, 261 ; 1845, Cambridge, 134.
                                          144, 262, 1137 ; 1847, Oxford,
    52

Blackburn, Hugh, Professor of Mathe
matics, 99, 226, 737, 952 , occupa                                                     208,
tions at Cambridge, 52, 64, 88 ;          204, 263 ; 1848, Swansea,                    218;
                                          269; 1849, Birmingham,
with the reading party at Cromer,
                                          1850, Edinburgh, 222, 302; 1851,
                                                              1852, Belfast, 234
78, 80 ; with Thomson in Paris, 93,       Ipswich, 226    ;    ; 1854, Liverpool,            ;
                                          1853, Hull,    238
108, 114; visits to, 616, 758; and
Thomson's reprint of Newton's
Principia, 480                            306 ; 1855, Glasgow. 310, 330 ;
                                          1856, Cheltenham, 324, 330 ; 1857,
Blackburn Technical School,               Dublin, 344, 346 ; 1858, Leeds,
Blake, William Gage, 60        934        379 ; 1859, Aberdeen, 391 ; 1860,
Blandy, Chas. R., 638          (see Lady  Oxford, 409; 1861, Manchester, 417;
Blandy, the Misses, 638
Blandy, Miss Frances Anna                 1862, Cambridge, 424 ; 1863, New-
                                          castle-on-Tyne, 431 ; 1867. Dundee,
Kelvin)                                   522; 1870, Liverpool, 581; 1871,

miBlow, Rev. William. 70, 73, 74, 76,     Edinburgh, 550, 587, 600 ; 1872,
   83, 87, 231, 597,                      Brighton, 627 ; 1874, Belfast, 649 ;
Board of Trade, Committee of, 900,        1875, Bristol, 662 ; 1876, Glasgow,
                                          *73> 711 ! 1877, Plymouth, 682;
   921, 928            Unit, 917          1878, Dublin, 690 ; 1880, Swansea,
Board of Trade Supply                     760; 188 1, York, 770; 1882, South
Boltzmann, Ludwig von, 294, 860
Boltzmann- Maxwell theory of equi-
                                              ampton, 787 ; 1883, Southport, 796,
partition of energy, 900, 902, 947.           797 ; 1884, Montreal, 806 ; 1885,
                                              Aberdeen, 850 ; 1886, Birmingham,
     1065, 1152, 1156                         862 ; 1887, Manchester, 868 ; 1888,
Boole, George, 159, 168, 178                  Bath, 878. 1040 ; 1889, Newcastle,
                                              889, 1052 ; 1890, Leeds, 896 ; 1891,
Boscovich's theory of matter, 888, 889,      Cardiff, 902 ; 1892, Edinburgh,
                                              923 ; 1894, Oxford, 937 ; 1895,
893. 947. '°34. 1052. 1055, 1056.             Ipswich, 947 ; 1896, Liverpool, 992,
                                             1076; 1897. Toronto. 1001 ; 1898,
    1076                                      Bristol, 1076 ; 1901, Glasgow, 1161,
                                              1162; 1902, Belfast, 1171 ; 1903.
Bottomley, Anna (nee Thomson), 67,            Southport, 1178 ; 1904, Cambridge.
                                              1182 ; 1905, S. Africa, 1188 ; 1906,
    83, 87, 94, 129, 200, 219  LL. D. ,      York, 1190; 1907, Leicester, 1200
Bottomley, James Thomson,                 British Association, Committees of.
623, 630, 990, 1185, 1209; as
Deputy Professor, 192, 569, 583,

650, 733, 851, 852, 957 ; lecture on
electrometers, 668 ; tests on accumu

lators, 766, 768, 779 ; on vacuum
tubes, 910, 1066
            William,
Bottomley,  William,  65.   77, 384, 648  1127; Electrical Standards Com
Bottomley,            jun.  , 679, 717
                                             mittee, 418, 482, 523, 581, 774,
Boyle, Sir Courtenay, 917                    778 ; utility of, 1127
Boyle, Hon. Robert, 255. 743              British system of weights and measures,
Brake for paying out cables, 349, 352,       436, 794, 808, 833, 866, 998, 1121
                                          Brown, Professor Alexander Crum,
    353
Bramwell, Sir Frederick. 843                 613, 667, 762, 969, 1210
                                          Brown, Sir Alexander Hargreaves, 843
Brett, John Watkins. 338, 359

1282 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

Brown, Dr. John, 233, 324, 396,                Challis, Rev. Professor James, 23, 34.

   533      Rev. Dr., 233,    234                  51, 69, 93,  106,  108,    167, 177    862,
Brown, the  Robert, Prof.,  9, 104,            Chamberlain,     Rt.   Hon.     Joseph,
Buchanan,
                                     1116           1004. 1128  of University of Glas
                                               Chancellorship
Bull, Ole, 218

Burdon-Sanderson, Sir John, 1101               gow, 13, 1181, 1184, 1186, 1198

Burnside, Prof. W. , 473                       Channel Tunnel. 663
Butler's Analogy, 51                           miChasles, Philarete, 44, 117, 118, 119
Buxton, Charles, 92
Buxton, Sir Thomas Fowell, 82, 115             Cheape, Mrs., 72,

                                               Chirality, 1055, 1080

Caird, Principal the Kev. John, 9, 975,        Chrystal, Professor George, 451, 473
                                               Clairvoyance, 1104
                                               Clapeyron, E. , 132, 252, 259
     1005, 1006                                Clark,    Latimer, 328, 418, 482.          496,
Caloric, 254, 262                                  500,   552 ; mercury standard          cell,

Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical              801, 802, 850, 901 ; thimble cell, 496
   Journal, 18, 38, 78, 83, 91, 114,           Classics, study of the, 933, 1116, 1157

    135, 136, 299, 303, 1015                   Clausius, Rudolf, J. E. , 223, 277. 278.
Cambridge Mathematical Tripos, 95,

   97, 641, 642, 1132,   1133, 1151.               291, 518, 600, 743, 787, 1033                     See
                         Society, 199,         Clerk, Dugald, 776, 1193
   "74                                         Clerk Maxwell, Professor James.

Cambridge Philosophical

    207, 267                                   Maxwell
Cambridge Praelectorship, 559
Cambridge University, W. Thomson               Clifford, Henry, 357, 500, 507, 869
                                               Clocks and watches, 437, 519. 677,
   enters, 23 ; littlego examination,
    39 ; takes degree at, 97 ; degrees         93°
    for women at. 996                          Clothworkers' Company, freedom of,
Cambridge University Musical Society.              1154; mastership of, 1154, 1156
                                               Clothworkers' exhibition, 53
  in,69, 76, 87, 158, 202, 231, 597, 932,      Coatbridge electric    light works, 935
                                               "Coefficients," the      Twenty-one, 686,
    i 1176
Campbell Swinton, A. A. , 960                  815, 837, 839, 977, 1082
Canning, Sir Samuel, 357, 362, 372,
                                               Colchester oyster feast, 1008        n, 193,
    391, 483, 500, 505, 507, 869               College, the old, of Glasgow,
Capillary phenomena, 662, 672, 852,
                                                  200, i 121

888, 1140                                      Colquhoun sculls, 59, 61, 973
Captain, loss of the, 582, 731                 Compass, 649, 679, 697, 715 ; litiga
Carey Foster, Professor G. , 418, 921             tion about the, 718, 880, 898 ; and
Carnegie, Andrew, 1158                             the Admiralty, 660, 890 ; on the
Carnot, Sadi, 132. 210, 252, 256, 949              Great Eastern, 483, 699, 701
Carnot's coefficient, 273, 279
Carnot's cycle,                                Consistentior Status, the, 777, 941
Carpenter, Dr.                                 Contact electricity, 401, 676, 761, 996
                 257.  B2.,58584,              Cooke, Sir  RWevil.liaHmenrFyothWeriglkilil,nso3n26,
                                   627. 958    Cookson,
                 W.
Carslaw, H. S., 8, 1158
                                                                                                     24,

Cathode rays, 1060, 1062, 1074                 27. 35. 63. 89. I01' Io6. l69i 563.
Cauchy, the Baron, 115, 116, 119, 120,
125 ; theory of dispersion, 567, 817,          973, 1176
824, 873, 1031, 1032, 1180; theory             Coombe, Rev. Charles George, 71, 75
                                               Copley medal awarded to Thomson,

of waves, 617, 828                                 799. 897

Cavendish, Hon. Henry, 138, 786,               Cormack, Professor J. D. , 1108

940, 1182                                      Cornell University, visit to, 1167. 1168
                                               Coronation, the, 1171
Cavendish laboratory, the, 694, 840,           Coulomb, Augustc,
                                               Creak, Captain E.
1133, 1182                                                            W1.3,8

Cavendish professorship, 694,      840,   841                                 714,  838,  850
Cayley, Professor Arthur, 34,      79,   117,
                                               Creative power, 1091, 1099
    167, 178, 433, 600, 945, 950, 1137         Creuznach, visits to, 308, 320, 433,
Cecil, Lord Sackville, 584
Centennial Kxhibition, Philadelphia,               938
668, 721, 1166                                 Crewe, visit to, 944
                                               Cridge, Rev. Edward, 71, 75
Century, the new, 1150                         Crocker, Professor Francis B. , 1160
Chalk, a hundred pieces of, 652                Cronier, Lord, 1150

                                   INDEX                                     1283

Cromer. visit to, 77, 79, 737                 Derby, Lord, 553, 641, 791, 843. 881,
Crompton, Lieut. -Col. R. E. B., 1188,           934

     1196                                     Design of ships of war, 583, 587, 593,

Crookes, Sir William, 910, 929, 1060,             731
    1062, 1097, 1125
                                              Deville, H. Ste. Claire, 529, 942
Crookshank, Professor Edgar M. , 1003         Devonshire, Duke of, 843, 920, 1008
Cram, Alexander, 33, 47, 189, 225,            Dew, protective effect of, 432, 524
                                              Dewdrop, artificial, 854
    598, 932                                  Dewar, Sir James, 843, 1148, 1177
Crum, James, 396, 401                         Diary, Cambridge, 49
Crum, Miss Jessie, 46, 576, 579, 582,         Diary, Mathematical, 76, 83, 84, 91,

    583. 595, 620, 621                             124, 126, 130, 136, 158, 197, 198,
Crum, Margaret (Lady Thomson), 46,                207, 210, 222, 223, 308, 689
                                              Dickenson, Lowes, 584
    47, 62, 66, 81, 129, 189, 225, 232
Crum, Miss Mary Gray (Mrs. Watson),           Dickson, C. Scott (Lord Advocate),

    46, 225. 532. 636, 1095                        1181
Crum, Miss May, 952, 1114
Crum, Walter (F.R.S.), 46, 105, 120,          Dickson, J. D. Hamilton, 29, 524,
                                                 525, 575. J°26
     185, 201
                                              Die Erhaltung der Kraft, 287, 308,
Crum, Walter G., 1187
Crum, Walter Ewing, 1209                         309
Crun1. William G. , 641, 655, 844, 845        Diffusion of fluids, 641, 676, 878
Crum Brown, Professor Alexander. See          Dispersion of light, 791, 816, 1081
                                              Dissipation of energy, 290, 437, 442,
    Brown
Crystal, the molecular tactics of a, 888,        866

    1054                                      Dodds, J. M., 855
Crystals, inertia in, 835, 1080 ; mag         Dom Pedro, Emperor of Brazil, 599

    netic properties of, 214, 216, 217,       Double bridge for electric measurement,
    222 ; models of, 932, 934 ; mole
    cular dynamics of, 1165 ; polariza           319. 417
   tion of light in, 124 ; structure of,      Dreadnought, the, 735
     797, 1050                                Dry shampoo, dangers of, 1000
Curb signalling, 334, 637
Curie, Pierre, 999, 1097, 1177                Du Bois, Professor H. E. J. , 876
Cycle of operations, 257, 258, 1005           Du Bois Reymond. See Reymond

                                              Duboscq, Jules, 224
                                              Dufferin, the Marquis of, 583, 595,

                                              597. 615, 1158
Daguerreotype photography, 13                 Dumas, J. B. , 114, 117, 120
Darwin, Charles, 538, 758, 1090, 11o1 ;       Dykes, Rev.      Dr.  John    Bacchus,  70,
                                                  71, 72, 75,
    I,is doctrine of natural selection, 607,                   76,  203,  m1
                                              Dynamical theory of heat, 262, 274,
b1o, 637, 940, 1126
Darwin, Erasmus, 1157, 1159
Darwin,  Sir George, 759,          edit          280; clouds over the, 1152
         and T', 473, 761,  792 ;  780,       Dynamics, 241, 470, 1084
  ing T                      776,             Dynamics, Elements of, 468
791 ; rigidity of the earth, 778 ; age        Dynamics, molecular, 806, 810
of the earth, 999
Darwin, Sir George, letters to, 760,          9"Dynamo-electric machinery, 426, 521,
                                                  524, 672, 683, 754, 772, 773.
768, 776, 777, 778, 781, 783, 784,
                                              Earnshaw, Rev. Samuel, 98, 106, 167,
785, 786, 787, 791, 797, 799, 809,
840, 842, 855, 858, 860, 935, 1132,               736
                                              Earth, the age of, 1095 ; the figure of,
    1151, 1157, 1174, 1203; from James
    Thomson, 758                                 9. 535. 675. 737. 778 ; tidal retarda
Deflector, the, 690, 716                         tion of, 441, 542
De la Rue, Warren, 743                        Edinburgh, meetings of B.A. at, 222,
De Morgan, Augustus, 91, 167, 599;                302, 550. 587, 600, 923
    testimonial from, 175 ; his book on       Edinburgh Mathematical Society, 893
    the calculus, 35, 49, 68, 1141            Edinburgh Royal Society. See Royal
De Sauty, C. V., 343, 483, 622, 627              Society of Edinburgh
Death Duties, 997                             Edison, Thomas A., 670, 752, 1108,
Deceased Wife's Sister Bill, 936                   1166
Dellmann, Friedrich, 320, 324, 399            Editorship of Cambridge and Dublin
Depth Recorder, 723, 783, 851                    Afatheataticel Journal, 135, 178

1284 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

Eggs, the spinning of, 740, 880           Encyclopaedia Britannica, 348, 386,

Elastic solid theory, 198, 820, 884           477, 686, 688, 757      913, 1005.
Elasticity, article on, in Encyclopedia   Energy, available, 294,

   Britannica, 477, 686, 763 ; mathe      1073 ; conservation of, 230, 287 ;
    matical theory of, 319 336, 686,      dissipation of, 230 ; minimum kin
    1164 ; moduluses of, 686, 829, 893 ;  etic, 1141 ; sources of, available to
   as possibly a mode of motion, 743.     man, 286, 289, 770
   807 ; Karl Pearson's History of, 687   Engineering laboratory, the James
Electric belts trial, 931                    Watt, at Glasgow, 1159. 1160
Electric images, 151, 206, 311
Electric light, 684, 690, 752, 776, 781,  Engineering laboratory at Cambridge.
                                          935, "74
   855, 875, 1193                         Entropy, 293
Electric measuring instruments, 754,      Essay on the figure of the earth, 9,

755, 804, 805, 844, 846, 848, 855,            35. 535. 737. 948
                                          Essay, De caloris distributione per
   858, 862, 867, 1065
Electric power supply, 691, 1001. 1160,      terrae corpus, 184. 187
                                          Ether, the, 817, 833, 893, 1065. 1070,
    1166, 1197            power,  684,
Electric screening, 898                       1075. 1084 ; vortex theory of, 868.

Electric transmission of                       1039

   691, 772, 773, 1oot, 1197              Evans, Captain (Sir Frederick J. ), 690.
Electric units, 227, 417, 482, 774,
                                              702
   775. 792                               Evolution, 606, 1090, 11oo
Electrical Engineers, Institution of.     Ewing, Bishop, 422
                                          Ewing, Professor James A. , 842, 862,
   See Institution of
Electrical International Congresses,          881, 933. 935, 950, 1107. 1108.

   775. 787. 800, 886                         1109
Electrical measurement, 668, 1030         Eyeglass, 33. 337, 348, 1004
Electrical oscillations, 236, 237, 879
Electrical Standards Committee (Board     Falls of Foyers, 952, 1001
                                          Falls of Niagara. See Niagara
   of Trade). 900, 921
Electrical Standards Committee of         Faraday, Michael. 19, 128, 164. 202.
                                              205, 288, 307, 326, 373, 416, 600,
   B.A., 418, 482, 523, 581, 774, 788        821, 945, 1118. 1125, 1140; first
Electric:ty, article on, in Encyclopedia     meeting with, 134 ; work on di
                                             electrics, 149 ; Faraday's Royal
   Britannica (1860), 348, 386 ; mathe        Institution lecture, 166 ; death of,
    matical theory of, 42, 83, 84, 137,
    141, 150, 207, 448 ; atomic theory    522 ; on Holmes's magneto-electric
    of, 1074, 1172                        machine, 945 ; memorial tablet to,
Electrion. See Electron                   unveiled, 1191 ; letters to, 145, 203.
Electrodynamic qualities of metals,       312, 410 ; on diamagnetic forces,
                                          207, 214, 217 ; letters from, 149,
    317
Electro-ethereal theory of light, 1082        312
Electrolysis, mechanical theory of, 227,  Faure, Camille, 765. 766, 773
                                          Faure battery, 767," 769, 773. 777, 855
   850                                    Fedderssen, W. , 237
Electromagnetic theory of light, 524,     Fellowship at Peterhouse, 134, 628,

   601, 819, 879, 884, 1021, 1025,            629
                                          Ferguson, Professor John, 302, 466,
    1053. 1057, 1058, 1077, 1083
Electromagnetics, discussions on, 878,

    1041          as motive power,           9'5. 99°
Electromagnetism                          Ferranti, S. Z. de, 754
                                          Ferrero, General Annibale.
    198, 229, 398, 683, 772                                             985. 986,
Electrometers, 407, 419, 425, 520,

    524, 668                1084, 1200       987, 988
Electron, the, 1074, 1081,  755, 886      Field, Cyrus, 338, 357, 387, 396, 850.
Electrostatic measurement,
                                          869, 1166
                                          Field, Rev. Thomas, 59
Electrostatics and Magnetism, 42, 617,    Fischer, W. F. L. . 47, 57, 79, 94, 99,

    621, 625, 633, 786                        202
Element! of Natural Philosophy, 473,
                                          Fisher, Admiral of the Fleet Lord,
    622
                                          713, 714, 716, 733. 764, 880, 88t.
Ellis, Robert Leslie, 78, 79, 83, 97,

1oo. 105, 135, 173                        889

                                          INDEX                                       1285

FitzGerald, Professor George Francis,               Gauss, C. F. , 45, 83, 130, 409, 600
                                                    Geikie, Sir Archibald, 549, 923, 941,
687. 756. 838. 85°. 878, 879, 1038,
                                                    1210
     1064, 1194, 1195
                                                    Geological controversy, 535, 923. 941
Fitzpatrick, Richard William, 49                    Geometrical slides, 473,
Fizeau's experiment, 118, 827, 857
F"laFslhepeot,i"nt,thet,he59deadly, 962,            Gibbs,  Willard,          756
Fleming, Professor William,                         Gibbs,  Wolcott,
                                          1007                        295
                                                                      81 1
                                            LL.D.,  Gill, Sir David, 1200
                                                    Gilman, President D. C., 811, 812,
   39. 53. '63
Flinders bar, 700                                       813. 833. 835
Fluorescence, 825, 961                              Gisborne, Francis, 38, 64
Flying machines, 937                                Gisborne scholarship, 36, 40, 109
Foggo, David, 49, 115                               Gladstone, Dr. John Hall, 533, 596,
Fonvielle, Wilfrid de, letter to, 1013
Forbes, Professor George, 816, 838,                     614, 618, 621, 646, 761, 766, 779,

   896                                                  909
Forbes, Professor James D. , 47, 53,                Gladstone, Miss Margaret Ethel (Mrs.

    54, 58, 81, 83, 88, 108, 120, 144,                 Ramsay MacDonald), 926, 988
    162, 174, 197, 199, 210, 408, 528,              Gladstone, the Right Hon. William

    904                                             Ewart. 612, 856, 861, 873, 877,
Foucault, Leon, 119, 224, 300, 603,
                                                    906, 911, 920, 925, 929, 1128,

                                                    1212

   736                                              Glasgow Athenaeum, lecture at the, 506
Courier mathematics, compendium of,                 Glasgow Geological Society, 526, 528,

   689                                                  540, 547, 643, 680, 874
Fourier's TAtforte analytique de la                 Glasgow (Royal) Philosophical Society,

   cnal,ur, 13, 14-17, 40, 112, 462,                    198, 235, 266, 436. 781, 867, 893,
    689, 878, 948, 979, 1139
Franco-Scottish Society, 1156                          992                                  to,
Frankfort, visit to, 17, 20                         Glasgow University, passim
Franklin, Benjamin, 138                             Good Words, articles contributed
Free Trade, 554, 916, 930, 934, 1129
Freedom of city of Glasgow conferred,               508, 570, 634, 697, 698. 704, 725,

                                                        865   Bishop Harvey,          91, 97,
                                                    Goodwin,

   503                                              167
Freedom of Clothworkers' Company of                 Glass, Sir Richard, 493,
                                                    Glazebrook, Richard       T.5,07  803,  838,
   City of London, 1154
French Atlantic cable, 527, 528, 552,               850, 879, 910, 921, 925, 1207,

    575                                             1210
Fresnel, Augustin, 118, 813, 819, 857,
                                                    Golf, how to play, 612

   934,  R1e1v7. 1,P.1, 17736                       Gordon, Lewis, 133, 409, 912
Frost,                                              Graham, Thomas, 165, 265
                                                    Gramme machine, 670
Froude, William, 596, 630, 644, 704,                Gramme medal, 1156
                                                    Grant, Professor Robert, 417
   706, 721, 732                                    Gravitation, potential energy of, 316 ;
Fry, Right Hon. Sir Edward, remin
                                                       Le Sage's theory of, 1029, 1031
   iscences. 1095                         27,       Gravitational matter, clustering of,
Fuel and air supply, 1001, 1002
Fuller, Professor Frederick, 24,

36, 127, 160, 167, 168, 172, 218                         1162
                                                    Gravity, instruments to measure, 854,
Gairdner, Professor Sir William, 975,
    985, 988                                             862
                                                    Gray, Professor Andrew, 356, 476.
Gall, Mrs., 28, 67, 68, 81, 88, 200,
    209, 233                                           686, 845, 1o11 ; on Sir W. Thom
                                                        son's lectures, 450, 651
Gal1on, Sir Douglas, 973                            Gray, Stephen, 501, 505
Galvanometer, the mirror, 347, 348,                 Gray, Thomas, 686
                                                    Great £astem, the, lays the Atlantic
    355. 366' 369. 491. 619; marine,                    cable, 482, 491 ; lays the French
    157. 34s ; iron-clad, 157, 492 ;                    Atlantic cable, 552 ; her defective
    Helmhollz's, 333, 335                               compasses, 483, 699, 702, 704 ;
Gases, kinetic theory of, 518, 743,                     occupations on board the, 10, 486,
    601, 806, 900; vortex theory of,
                                                        5'3. 52°
     665

1286 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

Greek, the study of, 13, 915, 1116,        translation of T and T'. 471 ; on

     1185                                  vortex motion, 510 ; offer of a Cam
                                           bridge professorship, 564 ; visit to
Green, George, of Nottingham, 45, 84,      Scotland, 612 ; the Rede Lecture,
    99, 108, 113, 115, 117, 141, 686,      631 ; opinion of Thomson's merit,
    822, 824, 837, 829, 831, 872, 873      677 ; Faraday Lecture to the Chemi
                                           cal Society, 763 ; at the Paris Con
Green, George (the younger), 947.          gress, 775, 790; visit to England,

     1198                                  805 ; theory of dispersion, 817, 827 ;
Green - books, the, 415, 443, 582,         the Gifford Lectures, 892 ; illness
                                           of, 936 ; death of, 938 ; letters from,
    594, 598, 616, 783, 873, 889, 901,     to Mrs. Helmholtz, 310, 429, 612,
    927, 1050                              616, 805 ; letter to Mrs. Thomson,
Greenwich Observatory, 900, 1189           414; letters to, 405, 424, 432, 433.
Greenwood, John, 34, 50, 64                442, 526, 596, 617, 632, 764, 923 ;
Greenwood, Principal, 656, 657             arrangements for a meeting. 309,
Gregory, David Farquharson, 18, 23,        321. 322, 323; galvanometer, 335;
    31. 34, 46, 47, 50, 53, 99, 118        Atlantic telegraph and other cable
Gregory, Professor John Walter, 535        work, 335, 577, 624 ; water-drop
Grenside, Rev. Canon, 25, 30               ping condenser, 399 ; invitation for a
Grove, Hon. Mr. Justice, 288, 398, 620,    visit, 401, 428, 587, 668, 672, 678.
                                           763, 795, 892, 921 ; atmospheric
    1014                                   eTlecatrnidcityT',and425e,lec4t2ro8m, et4e3r3s,,
Gutch, Charles, 59                                                                           403 ;
Gyroscope, the, 736                                                                          513 ;
Gyrostatic compass, 745 ; domination,      vortex motion, 513, 527, 529, 673;
                                           Cambridge Chair of Experimental
    739. 745: systems, 745, 791, 807,

     834
Gyrostats, 651, 738, 742, 745

Hamilton, Lord Claud, 1008                 Physics, 564 ; Franco-Prussian War.
Hamilton, Sir Wm. Rowan, 158, 178,         580 ; Rede Lectureship, 63 1 ; James
                                           Thomson and the Glasgow Chair of
    450, 452, 882, 1137, 1138
Harmonic analyser, 694, 730, 762           Engineering, 634 ; announcement of
Harmonic analysis, 693, 730, 1139          marriage, 646 ; electrical measuring
Harmonies, beats of imperfect, 676         instruments, 796, 844, 847, 858-9 ;
Harris, Sir W. Snow, 128, 140, 142,        Baltimore Lectures, 844 ; electrical
                                           standards, 921 ; letters from Mrs.
    144, 218, 220                          Thomson,     412,  416, 429, 430 ;
Hathaway, Arthur S., 816, 842, 844         Professor   Tail,  588 ; from, 465                from
Haughton, Rev. Samuel, 610, 682, 824
Hawkshaw, Sir John, 662                    Helmholtz, Mrs. von, letters to, 936,

Heat, article on, in Encyclop. Brit.,      938
                                           Helmholtz medal, the, 922. 923
   477. 688, 757 ; dynamical theory of,    Hemming, George W., Q.C. , 36, 59, 76
    225, 265, 274, 286 ; mathematical      Henslow, Rev. Professor, 1097, 1099
    theory of, 77, 148, 185 ; linear       Herkomer, Sir Hubert von, portrait of
    motion of, 41 ; uniform motion of,     Sir W. T. , 902
    42, 878                                Herschel, Sir John, 91, 250, 599
Heaviside, Oliver. 878, 879, 883, 892,

1070, 1138                                 Hertz, Heinrich, 237, 879, 933, 1058
                                           Highfield,       S., 1197
Hegel, 1122, 1123                          Hirn, G.     J.  272
Heidinger's brushes, 877                   Hittorf,    A.,
Helmholtz, Hermann von,
                          301,  738,                   Professor W.   ,  603,                957,

747. 789. 798,  "  817,    925, 938, 987,      1062
1144; paper,       On    the Conservation
of Force," 287, 308, 309; admira           Hodgson, J. D., 76
tion of Thomson's deductions, 295 ;        Holman, Professor Silas W. , letter to,
first meeting with, 310 ; visit to
Thomson at Schwalbach, 321 ; his                1047
galvanometer, 333, 335. 347 ; death        Holmes's magneto - electric machine.
of Mrs. , 405; visit to Arran, 411;
marriage to Anna von Mohl, 414 ;               426
lectures at the Royal Institution,         Home Rule Bill, 856, 860, 862, 911,

416, 428 ; delivers the Croonian               925, 932, 934 ; speeches against,
Lecture, 427 ; visit to Glasgow, 429 ;         911, 920, 932
                                           Hookham, George, 886
                                           Hoofer, the, 624, 628, 637, 719
                                           Hopkins, Rev. William, 23, 24, 27, 45,

                                  INDEX                                           1287

   49. S*. 63. 75. 7°. 77. 78, 81, 107,     Irish political questions, 856, 861, 865,
   108, 113, 170, 218, 782, 860, 973,          869, 870, 873, 911, 912, 920, 925

    1176                                    Irvine, 254
                                            Isoperimetrical problems, 932. 1053,
Hopkinson, Dr. John, 645, 654, 658,
    664, 666, 681, 695, 728, 777, 879,      Jacobi, M. H., 198, 341,     397
    881, 891, 972, 1174 ; letters to, 664,  Jamieson Raid, 955
   725, 788, 893                            Jamin, Jules, 453, 1171
                                            Jebb, Sir Richard, 1116
Hoskins, Sir Anthony, 804, 880
House of Lords, proceedings in. 913,        Jenkin, Fleeming. 408, 418, 552, 624,
                                               629, 637, 638, 644, 774, 869;
   932, 936, 997, 'o1o. 1177, 1189,            Memoir of, 409 ; and the Electrical
                                               Standards Committee, 418-420;
    1193, 1199
Huggins, Sir William, 603, 1170             Thomson, Varley, and Jenkin part
Hunt, Robert, 397                           nership, 552 ; Thomson and Jenkin
Hutchison, Dr. John, 167, 1121              partnership, 553; letters to, 622,
Huxley, Rt. Hon. Thomas Henry, 226,
                                                766, 768, 769, 777
   410, 548, 598, 605, 666, 805, 950,       Joachim, Joseph, 70, 1113, 1114
   1089, 1119, 1120; Presidential Ad        Johns Hopkins University (Baltimore),
   dress to Geological Society, 544 ;
    Presidential Address to British Asso        810, 812
   ciation, 550 ; rejoinder to Thomson's    Joule, James P., 134, 205, 206, 225,
   meteor-germ theory, 607 ; eulogy on
   Thomson, 799 ; eulogy of, by Lord            227, 253, 278, 306, 315, 378. 397,
   Kelvin, 940, 1089                            434. 542. 600, 702, 704, 721. 743,
Hydrodynamics, 207, 303. 477, 510,              772, 997, 1017 ; experiments with
   745, 937. 1064, 1143                        Joule, 231, 320, 402 ; researches of,
Hydrodynamics, Lamb's book on, 476             260; mechanical equivalent of
Hydrokinetic analogies, 213, 875, 884           heat, 260-269, 274 '· meeting with
Hymers, Rev. John, D. D. , 95                   Thomson, 264 ; and the Electrical
                                               Standards Committee, 418-419;
Ice, cost of, 315 ; melting point of,
    199, 221, 275, 399 ; electrolytic       Publications, 529, 530 ; President
    conduction of, 516 ; in polar regions,  of the British Association,
    536, 874, 958                           Statue of. unveiled by Kelvin,         635 ;
                                                                                  934
Images, electric, 127, 136, 141, 151-157    Joule- Thomson effect, 235, 285
Imperial reciprocity, 1129, 1198            Jubilee of electric telegraph, 869
Inaugural lecture at Glasgow, too, 239,     Jubilee of Hermann von Helmholtz,

     1015                                       987   of Lord  Kelvin, 953,   964-990
                                            Jubilee    Ninth,  of Glasgow     University
India, cables to, 553, 575                  Jubilee,
India Telegraph Service, 421, 597
Induction, peristaltic, 310                     (1902), 1158
Inertia of crystals, 1080                   Jubilee of Queen Victoria, 870
Influence machines, 521, 524, 573
Ingleby, C. M., 71                          Kant, Emanuel, 545, 548
Institut of France, elected Foreign         Kelland, Rev. Professor Philip, 17, 26,

   Associate of, 682; Arago medal, 978 ;    "5
   centenary, 947                           Kelvin Cup, the,
Institution of Civil Engineers, 397, 731,   Kelvin, Lady        1155              Anna
                                                               (nee
   762, 776, 792, 935, 1165, 1196                                        Frances
Institution of Electrical Engineers, 881,
                                            Blandy), 646, 647, 761, 764, 901,
   886, 891, 971, 1149, 1158, 1165,
                                            906, 979, 991, 993, 1001, 1006,

1189, 1193, 1195, 1197, 1199, 1206.         1009, 1146, 1165, 1173, 1193, 1194,

See also Society of Telegraph                  1202                           Limited, "
                                            ' ' Kelvin and James White,
    Engineers                               "55
Institution of Mechanical Engineers,        Kelvin of Largs, Barony of, 914 ; the

   734, 748, 867, 935                          name chosen,    907            name of
Integrating machines, 692, 693, 757                               proposed
International Electrotechnical Com          "Kelvin," the,

    mission, 1190                              electricity supply-unit,  917
Inverse problems, 213                       Kelvin's Law, 773
Inversion, thermo-electric,                 Ker. William, 67, 219
                             317

1288 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

Kcrr, Rev. Dr. John, 145, 667, 668,        Lecky, Rt. Hon. W. E. H., 1170        at
                                           Lectures on Natural Philosophy
    841, 1125                              Glasgow, 191, 210, 239, 444, 445,

Kinetic stability, 470, 739, 742   601,    851, 854, 1089, 1118
Kinetic theory of gases, 518,

   743. 9°°. I033                          Legendre, 13, 118
Kinetic theory of matter, 519, 744,        Leitch, William, 576, 579, 619
                                           Lenard, Professor Philipp, 959, 1062
    806, 1013, 1016, 1027, 1084            Le Roux, F. , 515
                                           Le Sage's theory of gravitation, 1029,
King, Agnes G. , 870, 880 ; diary of,
                                               1031
    876, 880
King, Rev. David, D. D. , 41, 135,         Letters written by Lord Kelvin to his
                                              father, 29, 30, 32, 34, 35. 36, 52.
    188, 305, 1087 ; letters to, 209,         53. 5°. 58. 67. 7*. 78. 80, 81. 86.
   417, 421, 422, 642                         93, 99, 105, 116, 120, 124, 128.
King, David Thomson, 529, 625, 640,           130, 131, 134, 165, 204; to Anna

    655, 1026                                 Thomson (Mrs. Bottomley), 29, 64.
                                              66, 201 ; to Elizabeth Thomson (Mrs.
King, Elizabeth (nit Thomson), 41,            King), 28, 31, 87, 102, 219, 221,
   200, 209, 414, 880, 889, 904, 907 ;
   letters to, 57, 101, 221, 225, 305,         223, 225, 230, 232, 305, 308, 346.
   308, 346, 432, 486, 492, 615, 640,         414, 486, 492, 497, 528, 533, 581,
   641, 655, 679, 681, 846, 899, 949,
   955, 956 ; letters from, 102               615, 640, 641, 645, 647, 649, 655,

King, George, 490, 598                         679, 681, 846, 850. 899, 949, 955,
King, W. Falconer, 524. 5*5, 575              956, 961 ; to James Thomson, F. R.S. ,
Kirchhoff, Professor Gustav, 302, 341,         92, 202, 205, 266, 306, 311, 320,

   399, 432, 515. 6°3         302              345. 351. 352. 383. 4°8, 423, 585,
Knighthood conferred, 499                      628, 629, 630, 636, 648, 1087,
Knowles, Sir James, 1102                      1088; to Margaret (Lady Thomson),
Kodak Company, 1166                            495; to Robert Thomson, 122; to
                                              Alexander Crum, 598 ; to Miss May
Konigsberger, Professor Leo,                   Crum, 952, 1114, 1181 ; to Miss
                                              Jessie Crum, 576, 579, 582, 583,
Laboratories for Research, 845, 1167 ;        595, 620, 621 ; to W. G. Crum,
at Belfast, 1202                               1187; to Mrs. Gall, 28, 135; to
                                              Dr. David King, 209, 417, 421, 422.
Laboratory  Corps of Volunteer                484, 531, 641 ; to Miss King, 1193;
                                              to Sir George Airy, 708 ; to Sir James
Workers, 293, 296, 298, 421, 520,             Anderson, 574 ; to Professor T.
                                               Andrews, 426, 434, 635, 654, 665,
    893. 9<>3                                 666, 667 ; to Thf Athcntvum, 1 119 ;
                                              to the Duke of Argyll, 283, 610 ; to
laboratory, the Physical, in Glasgow           Principal Barclay, 554 ; to itlie de
                                               Beaumont, 304 ; to Professor Hugh
    University, 296, 304, 570, 768, 845 ;      Blackburn, 952 ; to Mrs. Cheape, 72 ;
   National Physical, 887, 1165 ; Reg-         to Professor Chrystal, 452 ; to Rev.
   nault's, 121, 124, 126; the Engineer       H. W. Cookson, 563 ; to Col. R. E.
   ing, in Glasgow University, 1160;          B. Crompton, 1188 ; to Sir William
   the Engineering, in Cambridge, 935,         Crookes, 929 ; to Professor Sir
                                               George Darwin, 758, 760, 761, 768,
   "74
                                              77°. 778, 782, 784. 786, 787. 79'.
Lagrange, 13, 303, 696                         796, 799, 809, 840, 841, 855, 858,
Lalla RooM, the, 580-598, 614-618,             860, 881, 896, 907, 935, 1132, 1151,
                                               1157, 1174, 1203 ; to Warren De la
    625-627, 645-647, 662, 681, 723,          Rue, 743 ; to J. M. Dodds, 855 ;
                                              to Captain Sir Frederick J. Evans,
   759. 765. 769. 781-785. 795-797.           702 ; to Professor J. A. Ewing, 842,
   847-849, 860-862                            862, 88 1, 933 ; to Professor Fara
                                               day, 146, 203, 207, 214, 217, 312,
Lame"s Cours de physique, 44, 56              407, 410 ; to Admiral of the Fleet
Lang, Principal, 193, 200, 1185               Lord Fisher, 716 ; to Professor
                                               George F. Fitzgerald, 1038, 1064,
noiLanguage, precision in use of, 1117

Lankester, Sir E. Ray,
Laplace, 13, 15, 19, 118, 682, 730,

   782, 866, 948, 979, 1143
Laplace's coefficients, 139, 227, 473
Larmor, Professor Sir Joseph, 98,

    1049, 1075, 1182, 1201, 1209
Lavoisier, 254, 262
Law, Kelvin's, 773

Leahy, Professor Arthur H. , 1063
Least Action, principle of, 932, 1141
Lecky, Captain, 724

                                   INDEX                                        1289

1069 ; to Professor W. Fleming, 164 ;       842 ;   to Professor P. G.     Tait,  860,
to Wilfrid de Fonvielle, 1013 ; to          946,   1137 ; to Mrs. Tait,           589,
Dr. John Hall Gladstone, 619, 646,                                          586,
761, 766, 779, 909 ; to Dr. R. T.
                                            591, 592, 593 ; to Professor Sil-
                                            vanus P. Thompson, 1147, 1148 ;
Glazebrook,       1207 ; to Glasgow
                                            to Professor Sir Joseph J. Thomson,
Herald, 487 ; to Sir Richard Glass,         958 ; to The Times, 655, 662, 682,
493 ; to President Hamilton, 1205 ;         690, 722, 762, 767, 1007, 1099,

to R. B. Hayward, 1138 ; to Oliver          11oo, 1121, 1191 ; to Professor
Heaviside,   1138 ; to Hermann              John Tyndall, 307 ; to Rev. Wm.
                                            Walton, 81
von Helmholtz, 309, 321, 322, 323,          to Admiral  ; to F. H.   WL.ebWb,ha1r0t4o3n,;
                                                        Sir W. J.
335. 399. 4°'. 4°3. 4°S. 424. 432.          722, 958 ; to O. E. Wildmann
433. 442. 5'3. 52°. 527. 529. 564.
577, 580, 587. 596. 617. 624, 631,          Whitehouse, 375, 376 ; to Rt. Hon.
632, 634, 646, 668, 672, 678, 763,          J. Stuart Wortley, 499
                                            Le Verrier, 205, 244
764, 795, 844, 857, 858. 892, 921,          Liberal Unionist Association (West of
923; to Mrs. von Helmholtz, 936,            Scotland), 911, 920, 935, 943, 1129,
938 ; to Professor Silas W. Holman,            "55. "79. "93
1047 ; to Professor John Hopkinson,
664, 681, 725, 788, 893 ; to Professor      Libri, Guillaume, 117
Fleemingjenkin, 622, 762, 766, 768,         Liebig, Justus von, 129, 1099, 11oo
                                            Life, views on, 931, 1092-95, 1102,
769,  774,   777  ; to  James V.   Joule,
278.  378;   to   Lord   Knollys,  1170;        1103, 1104, 1184
                                            Lighthouse characteristics, 725, 762 ;
to Professor Leo Konigsberger, 302;
                                               lights, 634, 648, 659, 681, 724,
to Professor Leahy, 1063 ; to Cap
tain Lecky, 724; to Mr. Leitch, 619;            728
to Liouville, 206 ; to Lord Lister,         Liouville, Joseph, 115, 117, 118, 119,
954 ; to Professor Sir O. J. Lodge,
                                                156, 179, 181, 949, 1139
1062 ; to Mrs. Ramsay Macdonald,            Liouville's Journal de mathimatiques ,
1186; to Professor Mascart, 886,
                                                114, 122, 150, 151, 159, 206, 1151
887, 894, 942, 943, 1153, 1156,             Lippmann, Professor Gabriel, 954,

1173, 1204; to Professor T. C.                  975

Mendenhall, 838 ; to Professors             Lister, Joseph (Lord), 954, 956, 971,
Michelson and Morley, 857; to
                                            985, 992, 1170
Abbe1 Moigno, 379 ; to Madame Mon-          Living Cell, the, 1102, 1184
nier, 1207 ; to W. M. Mordey, 1196;         Lockyer, Sir Norman,
                                            Lodge, Sir Oliver J.,    795
to Professor Morley. See Michelson                                   237,  838,   850,

and Morley ; to Morning Chronicle,          879, 886, 937, 956, 996, 997, 1040,
383 ; to James Napier, 658 ; to Pro
fessor Simon Newcomb, 477 ; to Pro               1061, 1190, 1201
fessor Peirce, 659 ; to Professor John
Perry, 672, 941 ; to J. Porter, 1 134 ; to  Logic, 9, 11, 688, 917, 1116
Sir William H. Preece. 855 ; to Lord
Rayleigh, 625, 680, 694, 752, 787,          London Mathematical Society, 662,
788, 789. 792, 800, 801, 802, 804,
849, 852, 860, 862, 864, 867, 869,              1142, 1155
                                            Lorentz, H. A., 1076, 1081, 1172,

                                            1 200

                                            Lorenz, L. , 789
                                            Loschmidt on size of atoms, 602,

871, 875, 877, 878, 891, 898, 901,               1074         A. E.  H.,
                                            Love, Professor,
908, 909, 915, 919, 925, 928, 934,                                         10,  1142

951, 1009, 1039, 1052, 1150, 1151,          Lowell, James Russell, 843
                                            Lubbock, Sir John. See Avebury,
1171, 1177, 1185, 1194, 1199; to            Lord

Professor Rontgen, 954 ; to Rt. Hon.        Lucretius, 246, 514, 517, 952, 1098
Sir Henry Roscoe, 656 ; to E. J.            Luminiferous ether. See Ether.
Routh, 1132; to Sir Arthur W.               Lushington, Professor Edmund Law,
Rlicker, 945 ; to G. Saward, 377 ;
to The Scotsman, 1105; to Sir               10, 11, 20, 85, 104, 111, 163,

Chas. Abercromby Smith, 643 ; to               846
Rt. Hon. W. H. Smith, 711 ; to              Lushington, Franklin, 48
Sir C. Villiers Stanford, 70 ; to Pro       Lyell, Sir Charles, Principles of Geology,
fessor Sir George Stokes, 956, 957,
961, 1062 ; to A. A. Campbell               549. 759

Swinton, 960 ; to Professor Sylvester,      MacAlister, Principal Sir Donald, 121o
                                                                                          2Z
 VOL. II

1290 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

MacCullagh's theory of refraction, 824               Maxwell - Boltzmann theory of equi-
MacDonald, Mrs. See Gladstone,                          partition of energy, 900, 902, 1065.
Miss M. E.
                                                     1152, 1156
MacFarlane, Donald, 355, 420, 435,                   Mayer, Alfred M. , 689
                626, 652, 665, 686,                                                             261,
    509, 569,  Dugald, 525, 1026            915      M" aMyeecr,haJnuicliauls  Robert,    235,           530
                                                                               effect,"  268
M'Kichan,

Maclean, Dr. Magnus, 992                             Mechanical equivalent of heat, 262,
Macleod, Rev. Norman, D. D. , 622,
                                                         274, 280, 439
   697                                               Mechanical theory of electricity, 91,
Mackerel sky, explanation of, 676
Macmillan, Alexander, 488                               150, 197, 198, 227, 884, 1044 ; of
Maconochie, Professor Allan A., 104,
                                                        electrolysis, 227
    182, 219, 220                                    Micanique analytique of Lagrange,
Madeira, visits to, 637, 645, 681,
                                                          12, 211
    901
Magnet, ideal, definition of, 1120                   Ctleste of Laplace, 12, 15, 948
Magnetism, mathematical theory of,                   Medicine, doctor of, 1108, 1109
                                                     Meikleham, Edward, 48
    211, 221                                         Meikleham, Professor William, 10, 12,
Manchester Ship Canal, 847
                                                     47, 48, 52, 57, 63, 68, 85, 87. 88.
Manchester University. See Univer
                                                          159, 164             Professor T. C.. 838,
   sity                                              Mendenhall,
Marconi, Signor Guglielmo, 1006,
                                                        839
                                                     Mengarini, Professor G. , 1010

     1185                                            Mercatorizing, 927, 928
Mariner's compass. See Compass
Mascart, Professor Eleuthere, 774,                   Merz, Dr. J. Theodore, 1046, 1160
                                                     Metaphysics, 1124, 1183
    886, 887, 894, 942, 988, 1156,                   Meteorites, 609, 610
    1173, 1180, 1204, 1207; address at
                                                     Metric system, the, 227, 436, 794, 808,
    Jubilee, 979
Mascart medal, 1173                                      833, 866, 1121, 1166, 1180
Mathematical papers, 18, 45, 96,                     Mho, the, unit of conductance, 794
                                                     Michelson, Professor Albert A., 814,

    114                                              857. 925. "95
                                                     Miller,  Robert Kalley, 531
Mathematical and Physical Papers, 786,               Miller,  Professor William Allen.

    846, 874                                                                                             602
                                                     Miller, Professor W. H.. 265,418
Mathematical Society, London, 662,

    1142, 1155  theory of magnetism,                 Minimum energy, theorem of, 1141
Mathematical    views on, and methods                Mirror galvanometer, 348, 355, 366,

    211, 221                                             369, 491, 619
Mathematics,                                         Models, use of, 206, 745, 808, 815,

   in, 1124, 1136, 1137, 1138                            830, 836, 865, 873, 883, 885. 889,
Matteucci Prize, 666, 682                                932, 936, 1045, 1082, 1184
                                                     Mohl, Anna von (Mrs. von Helmholti),
Matthiessen, L. , 418
Maxim's flying machine, 937                 893,        414
Max-Muller, Professor Friedrich,                     Moigno, the Abbe1, 379
                                                     Molecular constitution of matter, 815.
    948, 988                                             820, 886, 1027, 1033, 1050, 1084
Maxwell, Professor James Clerk, 24,                  Molecular dynamics, 806, 810, 993,
155, 191, 199, 222, 294, 603, 891,
                           f"roomf,,
1015, 1137      ; letters             304,  311   ;  1015, 1019, 1033, 1036, 1052.
the sorting     "demon                286,  690   ;  1076, 1080, 1082

kinetic theory of gases, 294, 601,                   Molesworth, Sir Guildford,                 1129
743 ; and the B.A. committee, 418,                   Mond, Dr. Ludwig, 993
419 ; use of quaternions, 450, 1138 ;                Montreal, B.A. Meeting at, 806, 825
and the Cavendish chair of physics,                  Mordey,  William          M. . 886,
566 ; electromagnetic theory of light,               Morley,  Professor          Edward         1W195.,
524, 601, 819, 879, 884, 1021,                                                                           814,

1025, 1053, 1057, 1058, 1077,                            827, 857                               of Black-
                                                                                                679, 725.
1082 ; poems by, 349, 609, 687 ;                     Morley, RL Hon. Viscount,
treatise on Electricity and Mag                         bum, 929, 1170, 12 10
Tnetism,
                                                     Morse alphabet, 570, 659,
review
         of89T1,  1023, 1028,           1038;            728  B. F. W., 326
                                      ; death        Morse,
                  and      by, 691

of, 694                                              Mossotti's theory of electrostatics, 151

                                     INDEX                                                 1291

Motivity, 364, 665, 1005 ; discourse           Osmotic pressures, 993
   on, 913                                     Owen's College, Manchester, 655,

Motors, electric, 198, 329, 397, 683,               1206

    772                                        Oxford, University of, Honorary Degree
                                                   from, 443
Moulton, Lord Justice Sir J. Fletcher,
                                               Oxford, meetings of B.A. at, 205,
    775                                            263. 409, 937, 1018
Mouse-mill influence machine, 532,
                                               Oxford Junior Scientific Club, 932,
573                                               936, 1054
Muni". John, 710
Murdoch memorial,
Music,                  923          mi,
        47,  69,  597,   846,  876,            Pacific cable, 947
  III2                                         Paley's Evidences, 51 ; Natural T/u-

Napier, James, 285, 636, 658 ; his                 ology, 1091
    pressure log, 618, 719                     Paradoxes in science, 1125
                                               Paris Electrical Congresses, 775, 787,
National Physical Laboratory, 887,
                                               800, 803, 886
                                               Paris, Congres de Physique (1900),
     1165
Natural philosophy, chair of, 160 ;              "53

    inaugural lecture on, 239                  Parker, Thomas, 902, 944
Natural Philosophy, Thomson and                Parkinson, Rev. Stephen, D.D. , 97,

   Tail's. See Treatise on'                      99, 105, no
Navigation, lectures on, 663, 916
Navigational sounding machine. See             Parrots, the favourite, 630, 634, 638,

    Sounding machine                               870, 871, 1115         A.,    734,      1185
Nebular system, 306, 860, 866, 1162,           Parsons, Hon. Charles
                                                               of space,
    1163                                       Partitioning    Reform     B8il7l,3,769234
                                               Patent Law
Neill Arnott Demonstratorship, 557,
                                               Patents, Lord Kelvin's, 683, 934, 1275
                                               Patents, for compass, 660, 717, 722,
    593
Neo-vitalism, 1094, 1161                       723. 754t 7^2 ; for galvanometer,
Netherhall, Largs, 649, 876, 926               348, 619, 622 ; for brake, 349;
New century, the, 1150                         for siphon recorder, 650; for stranded
New university buildings, Glasgow,             cable, 349 ; for sounding machine,

   568                                         722 ; for electric measuring instnir
Newcomb, Professor Simon, 477, 674,                nil-ill's,  754 ; for  water  tap,
                                               Pearson,        Professor  Karl,  687   951
    941, 985
Newton, Sir Isaac,      243, 255, 1055,        Peirce, Professor B. O. , letters to, 659,

     1122, 1123, 1210,  1212; The Prin-            7»5

cipia, 480, 1013, 1145                         Fender, Sir John, 481, 566, 575, 769,
Niagara commission, 895                           869, 891, looo
Niagara   electric works,      894,  1002,
          falls, 684, 691,     772,  i i in.,  Pender memorial gift, 1000
   iidn,                                       Pengelly, William, 787
                                               Pendulum, Ballistic, 1180
1168 ; heating of water, 263                   Periodic motion, stability of, 871, 926
Niagara, the, 343                              Peristaltic induction. 310
Nichol, John, Professor of Modern              Perry, Professor John, 662, 672, 742,

   History, 13,   209, 1179            of          773- 853, 878, 941. 1040
Nichol, John       Pringle, Professor          Peterhouse, boat, 37, 51, 59, 973 ;

Astronomy. 10, 12, 14, 58, 83, 87,                 electric light installation at, 798,
                                                   843, 843, 856 ; fellowship, 134,
    104, 161, 737, 1179                            628, 629 ; mastership of, 679 ; six-
Noble, Sir Andrew, 889, 1160                       hundredth anniversary, 798, 841,
Non-inductive winding invented, 417                843i 974 ! science club, 913 ; ad
Non-sectarian education, 590, 1091                 dress from, at Jubilee, 973 ; com
                                                   memoration at, 1176
Oberbeck, A., 237              789, 793,       Petroleum, Select Committee on, 962,
Ocean currents, 958
Ohm, the, 419, 420, 774,                            1007
                                               Philadelphia, Exhibition at, 668, 807,
    901                              892 ;
Opacity, electromagnetic, 898                      1 166; lecture in, on the Wave
                                                   Theory of Light, 808, 1035
Order of Merit, the, 1169                      Philippart, G. , 769, 770
Oscillations, of the atmosphere,
                                                                                 2Z2
   electric, 236, 237, 879

   VOL. II

1296 LIFE OF LORD KELVIN

Trinity House, 660, 68 1, 726, 729                       Vortex atoms, 510, 517. 1027, 1046,
Tripos, mathematical, 95, 97, 641, 642,
                                                            "45
    1133, 1133, 1151. 1174
Tyndall, Professor John, 222, 291, 307,                  Vortex motion, 510, 512, 517, 527,
                                                             529, 760, 1047, 1144
    312. 313, 649, 763, 939
                                                         Vortex rings, 511, 518, 744, 1037,

Underground temperatures, 210, 223,                      Vortex theory of ether, 868, 1039
   401. 543. 779. 94i                                    Vortex theory of matter, 510, 517,

Uniformitarian doctrine in geology,                         744, 1037, 1047, 1076

   537. 544                                              Waddington. William Henri. 76
Unitarianism, 1087, 1088                                 Walton, William, 48, 81. 94, 115,
United Service Institution (Royal), 713,
                                                              118, 168, 178
   721, 758, 762
Units of electric measurement, 227,                      Ward, Professor A. W., Master of
                                                             Peterhouse, 24, 656, 657, 969, 973,
   418, 792
Universities, creation of new, 935,                           1176          collector, 399, 407.
                                                         Water-dropping
    1206
                                                            5*0
University, functions of a, 845, 1131,                   Waterfalls, heating of water of, 263,

    1168                                                 265 ; utilization  of power from,                   584.
                                                         691, 772, 894,     icoi, 1004
University of Bristol, 663                    See Cam
University of Cambridge.                                 Water tap, invention of, 897, 938,

   bridge                                                    951
University of Dublin, 923, 1198
University of Edinburgh, 973                             Watson, Rev. Dr. Charles. 533, 636,
University of Glasgow, passim
University of London, Royal Commis                       1075, 1087, 1097                                    Mary
                                                         Watson, Mrs.
   sion, 890, 896, 950, 1131                                                See Crura.
University of Manchester, 655, 1131,
                                                         Gray

     1206                                                Watt anniversary, 1004                       1157,  1158.
                                                         Watt, James, 935, 1004,
University of Wales, 846, 1179
Unseen Universe, The, 479                                   "59
Unwin, Professor W. C.. 895                              Watt oration, 1157
Use of the globes, 6, 719, 720, 917,                     Wave theory of light. 808, 813-836,

                                                         1035-1048
                                                         Webb,  FFrraendceirsickH.W, .9,739,441043
1096                                                     Webb,

" V" the ratio of the electromagnetic                    Weber, Heinrich Friedrich, 774, 790
                                                         Weber, R., 943
and electrostatic units, 524, 878,                       Weber, Wilhelm, 227, 333, 341, 383,
                                                         418, 524, 600, Hdi, 803
    1022,  F1a0i2r3,car1i0c2a6tu, re1,049394             Webster, Professor Arthur G. . 1166
Vanity
Van't Hoff, Professor J. H. , 295                        Weights and measures, British, 794,
Varley, Cromwell F., 339, 377, 418,
                                                         808, 866, 998, 1 121

    482, 505, 552, 621, 625. 683, 869,                   Weir's diagram, 915, 917
    882, 957, 1104                                       Westinghouse, George, 967, 1166
Vector, the name of, 451, 1065, 1070,                    Wharton, Admiral Sir W. J. L., 731.

     1138                                                    957                                      326,   418.
                                                         Wheatstone, Sir Charles,                     103.   106.
Velocity of electricity, 329, 1023,
                                                             502, 683
     1024                                                WWhheeawtesltlo, ne'sRevb.ridgWe,illi3a1m8,
Victoria Institute, 991 ; address to, 997,

Vienna Electrical Exhibition, 797,                            138, 167. 173

    798                                                  Whinfield. E. W. . 73, 76
Vital forces, 229, 289, 423, 1094, 1098,                 White, James, optician, 348, 419, 489.

     1161                                                    493- 5°7. 575. 579. 680. 717. 741.
Vivisection, 1107
Volta, Alessandro, 335, 400                                754. 769. 796. 994. "55

Volunteer Corps of Electrical Engineers,                 Whitehouse. E. O. Wildman, 330.
                                                            338. 34'. 343. 353. 37O. 374. 37*.
    406, 1188
Volunteer Rifle Corps                         movement,     869
                                                         Wiedemann, Gustav, 789, 790
405                                                      Wilde. Dr. Henry, 683

           INDEX                                                             1295

Thiselton-Dyer, Sir William, noo             Thomson, Mary H., 1130
Thompson, Claude M. , 1179                   Thomson, Robert (youngest brother of
Thompson, Professor Silvanus P., 919,        Lord Kelvin), 6, 21, 46, 62, 91, 92,

     1147  W. H., Master of Trinity,             201, 918  R.     D.,   178
Thompson,                                    Thomson, Dr.

      559. 5°2                               Thomson, Thomas, Professor                of
 Thomson, Dr. Allen, Professor of
                                                 Chemistry, 12, 21, 174
     Anatomy, 21, 355
 Thomson, Anna (Mrs. W. Bottomley),          iThomson, William, LORD KELVIN,
                                                 birth, ; matriculation at Glasgow,
     6, 46, 62, 64, 129, 200                 8 ; entrance at Peterhouse, 23 ;
 Thomson, David, Professor of Nat.           tripos examination, 97 ; Smith's
                                             prize, 105 ; election as Fellow of
     Phil., Aberdeen, 19, 87, 89, 101,131,   Peterhouse, 134 ; lecturer on mathe
                                             matics at Peterhouse, 156 ; appoint
       158, 162, 178                         ment to Glasgow chair, 161 ; elected
                                             Fellow of Royal Society of Edin
 Thomson, Professor Elihu, 1166              burgh, 199 ; proceeded M.A. , Cam
 Thomson, Elizabeth (Mrs. David              bridge, 207 ; elected Fellow of Royal
                                             Society, 226 ; marriage to Margaret
     King), 5, IS. *6. *8, 31. 37, 41,       Crum, 233 ; knighthood conferred,
      101, 200                               499 ; death of Lady Thomson, 532 ;
 Thomson, Frances Anna (Lady). See           President of British Association, 599 ;
     Lady Kelvin                             elected Life Fellow of Peterhouse,
 Thomson, James, LL. D. (father of
     Lord Kelvin), 23, 35, 55, 182, 200 ;    628 ; marriage to Miss Frances Anna
     birth, 2 ; education, 3 ; appointment
    at Belfast as teacher of mathematics,    Blandy, 646 ; elected Foreign Asso
                                             ciate of the Institute of France, 683 ;
     5 ; Professorship at Glasgow, 6 ;       elected President of the Electrical
    education of his children, 15, 16 ;
    William's election to the Professor      Engineers, 881 ; elected President of

    ship, 188, iSy; death of, 209;           the Royal Society, 897 ; created
    letters of, to Wm. Thomson, 29, 32,      Baron Kelvin of Largs,          90L5L.;Dju.bileoef
                                             of Lord Kelvin, 964;
     34. 37. 47. 5". 53. 57. 62, 63, 68,
     78, 83, 85, 89, 90, IO2, IO3, 104,      Glasgow conferred, 975 ; receives
                                             ionG.C.V.O. , 991; retires from Pro
     XI5, 127, 129, Z62                      fessorship,          ; receives the Order
                                             of Merit and Privy Counsellorship,
Thomson, James, LL.D. , F.R.S., Pro          1169 ; death, 1209 ; funeral in West
    fessor of Engineering(elder brother of   minster Abbey, 1210
    Lord Kelvin), 13, 16, 21, 67, 120,                    William, Professor of
                                             Thomson,
     131, 200, 220, 221, 423, 471, 491,
    633, 692, 796, 853, 856 ; education,     Materia Medica, 21, 53, 57, 85,
    6 ; matriculation at Glasgow, 8 ; pre
    diction of the lowering of the freezing       103, 116, 163
    point of water by pressure, 275 ; the
    tides, 542 ; appointment to the chair    Thomson Coat of Arms, 505, 914
    of engineering at Glasgow, 634 ; the     Thomson effect, the, 329, 317
    disk-ball cylinder integrator, 692,      Thomson experimental scholarships,

    73°. 757 I a family party, 904 ; his         557
    Bakerian lecture, 909, 918 ; death of,   Tidal analyser, 730
   918 ; letters from William Thomson,       Tidal Committee of British Association,
    92, 202, 205. 306, 311, 320, 345,
    352, 408. 628, 648 ; letter to Sir          581, 6n, 619, 681, 730, 783
    George Darwin, 758                       Tidal Retardation of the Earth, 441,
Thomson, James, M.A. , of Newcastle-
                                                  542
    on-Tyne, 1202, 1209
Thomson, John, 6, 46, 67, 80, 88,            Tide, gauge, 730, 762, 764 ; mills,
                                             771 ; predicter, 668, 731, 763
                                             Tides,                      783, 787
     103, 201                                Tilden,  657. 7*9.   746,  William, 1175
                                                       Professor  Sir
Thomson, Professor Sir Joseph J. , 879,
   957. 959. I04°. 1060, 1074, 1174,         Trades unions, 931, 1130, 1193
                                             Traill, Dr. Anthony, 67, 915
     1209  Margaret (Lady, nit Mar           Treatise on  Natural Philosophy (T and
Thomson,                                                    425, 428, 435, 446-479.
                                               T), 421,
garet Crum), 238, 305, 308, 314,             488, 513. 566, 625, 633, 658, 681,
320, 337, 408, 412, 416, 426, 429,           686, 691, 737, 761, 776, 780, 786,

430, 432, 488, 490, 495, 496, 497,           791, 795, 11.21, 1120, 1125, 1140

516, 526, 528, 529, 532, 562, 613



