David Gill, man and astronomer ; memoirs of Sir David Gill, K.C.B.,
H.M. astronomer (1879-1907) at the Cape of Good Hope, collected
and arranged by George Forbes, F.R.S. ...
Forbes, George, 1849-1936.
London, J. Murray, 1916.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015030969417
                           Public Domain in the United States,
                           Google-digitized
                           http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us-google
                           We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                           in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                           public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                           as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                           United States, persons receiving copies should make
                           appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                           of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                           It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                           the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                           work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                           over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                           use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                           independently of anything we can address. The digital
                           images and OCR of this work were produced by Google,
                           Inc. (indicated by a watermark on each page in the
                           PageTurner). Google requests that the images and OCR
                           not be re-hosted, redistributed or used commercially.
                           The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
                           non-commercial purposes.




  mwimkw,
I

03
36
Cr-1S
H


   DAVID GILL
MAN AND ASTRONOMER



                                                  Frontispiece.
     DAVID GILL,        1884     (XT.  41).
(From the portrait l.y Sir George Reid. P.R.S A.)

    DAVID GILL
MAN AND ASTRONOMER
MEMORIES OF SIR DAVID GILL, K.C.B.,
H.M. ASTRONOMER (1879-1907) AT THE
        CAPE OF GOOD HOPE
       COLLECTED AND ARRANGED BY
     GEORGE FORBES, F.R.S.
    WITH PORTRAITS AND ILLUSTRATIONS
               LONDON
 JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET
                  1916

All rights rtserved.
                            PREFACE
        Shortly     before his death Sir David Gill's monumental
              A History and Description of the Cape Observatory,
Lwork,was issued by the Admiralty in a handsome volume. Any
      further complete summary of his scientific work would
J^.   fill several volumes. Gill's contributions to astronomy
i     are mentioned in this book only as throwing a light upon
      his character.    His friends have expressed a  desire to have
q     some memories preserved of David Gill, the man, whom
      they had learnt to love. Primarily for these friends this
      book   is written.    During the twenty-seven years, how
      ever, which he spent in raising the Cape of Good Hope
^     Observatory to the highest position in equipment and
»     work done, while astronomers were filled with admiration,
ti    the general public were not told much about what he was
a     doing for science and the empire. A secondary purpose
      of this book  is   to make his personality, untarnished by
      self-advertisement, real for those who knew him not,
      and possibly as inspiring and elevating to some of them
      asit   has certainly been to the biographer privileged to
      study the innermost workings of his mind.
          To David Gill astronomy was almost     a   religion. This
      reverence for his chosen science was tempered by human
      sympathies; and the present book, while telling of his
      growth, from schoolboy and watchmaker to leader of
      astronomical research, deals also with his friendships, his
      delightful social and domestic life, his humour, his enjoy
      ment of the world and his varied employments, among
      which deer-stalking occupied    a   special place.

   vi                           PREFACE
       Into all his work and recreations he had the power of
  throwing an enthusiastic eagerness and joy which were
  infectious and attracted to him a wide circle of companions
  in widely varied pursuits.
      The secret of the man's great happiness, which he
  dispensed to all who came in contact with him, was the
  selfless enthusiasm with which he enjoyed all that is
  beautiful in the world, and all that is true in human
 thought.       He was a real man, and a real astronomer. A
 real astronomer, as known to David Gill and the older
 generations, is one who lives not by science but for
 science, and who becomes an astronomer not for self-
 advancement, but only because he cannot help it.1
      The narrative part of these memoirs is divided
 naturally into three distinct sections.
      1. 1843-1879.      The Growth of a real Astronomer.
      2. 1879-1907.      The Work of a real Astronomer.
      3. 1907-1914.      The Charm of a real Astronomer.
     To these are added in two appendices —
     Specimens of his lighter correspondence ; and a list of
 his scattered writings, preceded by a list of honours.
     My sincere thanks are due for permission to inspect
 the MSS. in possession of the Admiralty; also to the
 Directors of Observatories at Greenwich, Cape of Good
 Hope, Edinburgh and elsewhere, for access to records;
 and to a large number of Sir David's friends for giving
me the opportunity of using the collections of letters
written to them by Gill, or supplying me with other
material ; and most of all to Professors Kapteyn, Hale,
Elkin, Dr. Anita Newcomb McGee (daughter of Simon
Newcomb), Mr. E. B. Knobel (who has kindly read the
    1   In the Monthly  Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society,
Feb.     1910, Vol. 70, p. 395, there is an address delivered by the
president. Sir David GUI, K.C.B., on presenting the gold medal
of the society to Professor Friedrich Kilstner. In the course of
that address he gives us his appreciation of a real astronomer.

                             PREFACE                            vii
 proofs carefully and also compiled the Index), Sir Frank
 Dyson, Mr. Hough, Professor Sampson, Dr. Backlund,
 Mr. A. Hinks, Mr. R. T. A. Innes, the Earl of Crawford
 and Balcarres, Lady Darwin, Mr. Clerke, and Miss Violet
 Markham (now Mrs. Carruthers).
     Special mention must be made of the contribution
 by Mr. John Power, assistant at the Royal Observatory,
 Cape of Good Hope, with the collection of anecdotes about
 his late chief which are current at the Observatory.         Our
 best thanks are also due to Mr. W. H. Wesley, the
 esteemed assistant secretary of the Royal Astronomical
 Society, for the labour he has bestowed upon the list
 of Sir David Gill's writings, printed in the Appendix.
    Lastly, this book could not have been compiled with
 out the devoted attachment to Lady Gill of friends
 who have helped her to furnish me with material.              We
 dedicate this book, as a small tribute, to her, hoping
 that, while inspiring others, it may keep green for many
 a long day some bright memories of a husband's life;
 knowing well that the value of his accurate observations
 and his inventions will not diminish, but will increase,
 with the centuries.
    I have no claim that entitles me to write these Memories
 except our long friendship.          We became acquainted
 somewhere between 1869 and 1871.             By the time when
 we foregathered at Hamburg for the meeting of the
Astronomische Gesellschaft in 1873 1 we were old friends,
with very similar tastes in astronomy and natural
philosophy.      He was then working at Dun Echt, and I
 at Greenwich Observatory under Airy. Both of us were
preparing to observe the Transit of Venus in 1874; and
both of us had just spent a few weeks, quite indepen
dently, in inspecting continental observatories.             Then
again, later, the preliminary work for my measurement
   1  It is a sad reflection that, of all the British astronomers
(personal friends of my own) who were members of that associa
tion in 1873, I am the solitary surviving member.

viii                           PREFACE
of the velocity of light was done on Dr. Young's estate,
Durris, near Dun Echt, where I was able to visit the Gills
in their home.
   During twenty years of my life I was trying to help in
building up the infant profession of electric engineering ,
and our ways parted. But always on his visits home from
the Cape we revived our friendship, and twice during his
residence there I had the happiness of going to South
Africa and seeing him at work. After my profession
had become standardised, more entirely commercial,
and therefore less interesting as a branch of science, I
retired from it, to help in developing some naval and
military inventions. Then Gill came home, and in his
company I was able to resume my old tastes         (itwas he
who induced me to write my short History     of  Astronomy),
while he wrote much of his last book in my
                                                  " shed " at
Pitlochrie — hermit's library in a pleasant grove.
            a
   These are poor qualifications to offer for undertaking
the task of writing the Memories. But the wonderful
experience of reading his intimate, sympathetic and often
racy correspondence has perhaps brought the writer into
closer touch with the motives that inspired all his words
and acts than contact even with his open and frank
personality could alone have done.     For, behind his genial
accessibility there was      deep reserve, and a refusal to
                               a
allow his left hand to know the good that his right hand
was doing.     There     little doubt that, out of all his
                          is
friends, there  isonly one woman who knew some of the
kind things he did which have now been learnt only
through private letters, which cannot be reproduced.
   Little mention    ismade of any trivial controversies
into which he may have been drawn. He often enjoyed
the fray while  itlasted and forgot all about it  when over,
and certainly he would not desire to have his opponents
humbled, or his triumphs proclaimed.         His transparent
honesty and singleness of purpose to serve astronomy
brought him success in many        controversy.
                                   a               He always

                           PREFACE                     ix
gave credit for these qualities to an opponent, and could
not conceive the possibility of any one denying them to
him, or attributing any personal motive to him.
   Every one who had dealings with Gill saw in him the
real astronomer.      What value will be attached to his
labours, centuries hence, the future must decide.     We
can now estimate the position that was assigned to him
in life only by noting the number of honours (govern
mental and academic) conferred upon him by and through
British and foreign astronomical bodies and universities,
exceeding those conferred upon any living astronomer.
These are enumerated, and precede Mr. W. H. Wesley's
list of published scientific works. Such considerations
are outside the scope of the present book.
   I trust and hope that these memories may lead many
a reader to understand the man, his affections, his
aspirations, his quests, his hopes, and his joy in being
part of this glorious world.
                                       George Forbes.
   Kinnaird Cottage, Pitlochrie,
        August 2, IO/6.


        LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS
                                                                     Facing page
DAVID GlLL, 1884 (JET. 41)               .      .       .   Frontispiece
      (From   the portrait by Sir George Reid, P.R.S.A.)
                                                         ...
Isobel Black and David             Gill, Lieut, ist Aberdeen
    shire Rifle Corps, before their Marriage                            .     38
Lord Lindsay, M.P., F.R.S., P.R.A.S.                                          70
      (From Vanity Fair, May      1878.)
Mr. and Mrs. Gill in          Camp    at Mars Bay, Ascension,
    1877                                                                      94
The Southern Milky Way, with Coalsack, Nebecula
    Major, and Stars, truly placed ; a and fi Cen-
    TAURI POINTING         TO SOUTHERN       CROSS       .      .       .112
      (Drawn from Table Bay by George Forbes,        1914.)
Sir George Biddell Airy, Astronomer Royal                      .
                                                                        .138
                            .......
Professor Simon Newcomb                   .      .       .     .        .150
Professor Kapteyn           .     .       .      .      .       .       .168
                                         .....
The Heliometer House, with Dr. Auwers and Dr.
    and Mrs. Gill                                                           190
The Study, Cape Observatory.                 Miss Agnes Clerke
    with Dr. and Mrs. Gill                                                  202
Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope                            .       .
                                                                            234
Sir David Gill, K.C.B., F.R.S                                               252
The Study,      34   De Vere Gardens             .      .      .        .322
      ("We     are a very Darby and Joan old couple, who like to be
         together as much as possible." —   Hill   to G. E. Hale, Jan.
         5. «9°9-)
The End                                                                     360


           BOOK I
THE GROWTH OF A REAL ASTRONOMER


                         CHAPTER       I
            PARENTAGE     AND BOYHOOD (1843-60)
Peter Gill (grandfather)— David Gill (father)— Mother, brothers
     and sister — Dr. Lindsay —Anecdotes of childhood —College
     days — Clerk Maxwell —David Rennett.
David    Gill   was the eldest son surviving childhood of
David Gill, watchmaker in Aberdeen, and of Margaret
Mitchell, his wife.
   His grandfather was Peter Gill, a craftsman of rare
ability, who lived to the advanced age of ninety-three
years [b. 1757; d. 1850), and, along with his wife, David
Gill's grandmother (Margaret Anderson, b. 1757 ; d. 1828),
is buried in St. Peter's churchyard, Aberdeen.
   Peter Gill was admitted, on September 1, 1783, to the
Hammermen's Trade Corporation of Aberdeen.              It was
he who founded the prosperous business, as a clock and
watch maker in Aberdeen, which existed for about a
century under the names Peter Gill, David Gill, Gill and
Smith, David Gill and Son, at 78 Union Street, now
occupied by the Commercial Bank. The business was
carried on in the first floor of this house, and the upper
storeys formed for many years the residence of the family.
Eventually David Gill, senior, son of Peter Gill, removed
 with his family to another house, at 48 Skene Terrace, to
which he made additions.          In this house young David
was born.      It continues, in spite of the westward exten
sion of the town, to stand as a commodious middle-class
 residence. It possesses a neat garden on the other side
of the street, open upon all sides (except for a new
                                3

4              PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD                        [Chap.   I
building to the east), and it was in this garden that
young David set up his first telescope.
   The name of his grandfather, Peter Gill, is still remem
bered, and even now his clocks are sometimes to be
picked up. It is said that he was the last man to walk
the streets of Aberdeen in the old-fashioned knee-breeches
and fob. He was greatly respected by his townsmen.
The family were all Episcopalians.
   Under his son, David Gill senior, the business became
that of a wholesale dealer in, rather than a maker of,
clocks and watches. This David Gill        (b.May 26, 1789           ;
   April    1878) married Margaret Mitchell        March
d.        6,                                         (b.             8,
1809 ;   d.December 18, 1870) from Savock in the parish
of Foveran, some ten miles north from Aberdeen. They
are both buried in the parish churchyard of Foveran.
Their graves, with those of other members of the
family, are enclosed by  a   railing against the churchyard
wall south of the church.      In the same graveyard there
is another railed enclosure, twenty-five feet by eight feet,
containing monuments over graves of the Black family,
of which Lady Gill (Sir David's wife) was           member,
                                                     a
beginning with the name of Alexander Black,      1693;     b.
  1769. At    later date, his descendants continued to
d.             a
occupy the farm, Linhead, within a stone's throw of
Foveran   Church.
   David Gill senior died in 1878, at the age of eighty-
nine years.    He was   a   magistrate for Aberdeenshire.
                                                     "
One of his contemporaries speaks of him as a           very
quiet, taciturn man of refined habits and      shrewd man
                                                 a
of business." Others refer to him as        a hot-tempered
     —
man one of them speaks of him as       a  curmudgeon, but
adds that, in spite of this, he was civil and gentlemanly,
and, in his tantrums, was well managed by his wife.
Those who were able to get on with him were much
devoted to him, and all agree that in his own house he
was noted for his hospitality.      In his later years his
mental activity failed, and business matters devolved

1843-60]                  PARENTAGE                         5
upon his eldest son, David, who became a father to
the younger members of the family, to whom he was
affectionately attached.
   David Gill senior succeeded well in his business.       He
                                       "
was thrifty, and acted as his own        traveller."    About
i860, Major Robertson's large estate of Foveran came
upon the market, and was divided up. David Gill
senior invested £19,000 in part of this property, to which
                                                 "
he gave the name Blairythan (accent on the          y "), con
sisting of farms extending over several hundred acres,
but with no mansion house.
   The family consisted first of Patrick and David, who
died in infancy in 1840 and 1841, and are buried beside
their grandfather in St. Peter's Churchyard, Aberdeen.
Then came David, the subject of this biography, born
June 12, 1843; then Patrick Gilbert, born 1845, died
1886; Andrew Mitchell, born 1846; James Bruce, born
1849; and Margaret, bom 1851, died 1892.
   Of these, David's brothers and sister, Patrick went to
Australia about 1863, following the steps of his uncle,
Andrew Mitchell     (b. August 3, 1802; died at Foveran
House, April 23, 1878), who made fortune in Queensland.
                                    a
Pat, as he was called, came home for       a  visit in 1871.
Again, later, after being home, he took his sister Margaret
as far as Capetown on his way to Australia in 1881.        He
also paid one more visit to his brother David at the Cape
in 1884 (see p. 163), on his return to Australia after a
visit home. Patrick became      a   magistrate in Victoria,
and also for Queensland. He died in 1886, June 21, at
Melbourne, where he was buried.
   Andrew Mitchell Gill, of Savock and Auchinroath,
resides in Scotland.
   James emigrated to Australia in 1867, and settled at
Runnymede, Victoria, where he still lives with his wife,
Ruth. He was home for a short visit in 1876.
   Margaret married the Rev. Henry Powell, Rector of
Stanningfield, Suffolk.   She died, soon after her husband,

6            PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD                    [Chap. I
in 1892, leaving three sons, who were adopted by Sir
David and Lady Gill, and brought up by them in their
home at the Cape of Good Hope.
   The mother of David Gill seems to have been a par
ticularly lovable woman. She died in 1870, a few months
after David's marriage, having been an invalid for some
time previously.     In later life, when any success came to
                                                "
him, he would say wistfully to his wife,          I wish my
 mother were alive. This would have pleased her."
   Mrs. Mitchell, who in 1858 married David's uncle,
writes —
   David and his mother were in particular sympathy
with each other. She was a very intelligent woman,
 broad-minded, active, energetic, and, like her son, full
 of enthusiasm; she was much liked and esteemed by
 her relatives and friends; I have often remarked, when
talking of her, how proud she would have been of her
son's success.
   Mrs. Mitchell says also that she spent much time
with Mrs. Gill in her last illness, and so she learnt
from her, what is worth recording, that David used to
sit long hours with his mother at that time, and to pray
with her.
   As a boy, little Davie did not show any precocity. He did
not figure as a genius or a prodigy at school or college, but
as a cheerful companion with an affectionate disposition
to his playmates and a certain reverence for his parents ;
while his keen enjoyment in the amusements of the
moment always made him a general favourite.            So say
those of his playmates who survive him. They tell of
his love of Nature and of truth, the bases of his taste for
science.   And they all tell how completely he was free,
even in childhood, from self-consciousness, and how he
felt for others. His scientific enthusiasm, unusual in
that community, was looked upon askance as eccentricity,
and led his companions to say he had " a bee in his
bonnet."

i843-«o]                 CHILDHOOD                          7
   His brother Andrew gives some early recollections.
   I  remember in the old Skene Terrace days we were
always walked to church, St. Andrew's, every Sunday,
morning and afternoon, and when we got there, nearly
always seated at the top of this seat were our two old
aunts, Mary and May, who then lived in Bon-Accord
Square, and to that house some of us often went to our
midday meal.
   David as a lad, I remember, was a great chemist, and
had a small room (used at one time by my mother as a
storeroom) fitted up as a laboratory in the house in
Skene Terrace.       [This was after his schooldays.]    We
were as children all at school with the Miss Chisholms
(fine old Highland ladies), whose school was in the house
now incorporated with the Music Hall. Afterwards all
the brothers in turn went to Dr. Tulloch's Academy, off
Crown Street (the school is still standing).    We then had
also a tutor, Peter Shepherd (the son, I think, of a
gamekeeper in the Strathdon district), who afterwards
became, I think, a well-known Army doctor.        David and
Pat afterwards went to Dollar Academy. David did not
much wish to go into my father's business.
   One of the few souvenirs of childhood preserved by
Sir David Gill is a card bearing the following words,
received when he was twelve years old —
   Certificate of Superior Proficiency in Elocution, awarded
                                            "          "
by Competition to Master David Gill — Emeritus and
Prizeman of a former session.
     Bellevue Academy, Sept. 25th, 1855.
   In  1857, at the age of fourteen, he was sent to the
Dollar Academy.       He boarded with the head master,
Dr. Lindsay, a man with scientific interests in mathe
matics,    natural philosophy and chemistry, the very
subjects for which the boy's mind was naturally recep
tive; and this was his first introduction to science. He
used often, in later years, to rejoice in having at that age
come into contact with a man so willing to help him in
the discovery of his natural tastes, of which up to that
time he was unconscious. In 1909, at the request of the

8           PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD                  [Chap. I
present head master, Dr. Dougal, Sir David Gill gave
away the prizes at the Dollar Academy.      After speaking
of his experiences at the school forty-six or forty-seven
years previously, he said —
   The Chairman had told them that he had been a very
successful man, but he wanted to tell them that if he had
been in some small degree successful, the man that put
that capacity into him was a Dollar man, the late
Dr. Lindsay.
   One of Davie's playmates from the age of eight, Gerald
Baker, who has been in the Union Bank of Australia, at
Melbourne, since the year 1863, when he last saw David
Gill, writes to tell of the affection he has always re
tained for his old playmate, and adds some notes of
no particular date.
   Davie was a boy that everybody liked, bright, clever,
cheery, devoid of self-consciousness,  and a stickler for
truth. I don't think he made much show in the
humanities.
   Davie was not a fighting boy, though combative in
discussion, like all boys with brains. The only time I
ever saw him receive a blow was when he was endeavour
ing to separate Archie Forbes and Johnny Murray, two
of our friends, who were settling some point in Silver
Street with their fists.   Davie got hold of Johnny, and
received a bad blow on the face for his pains.
   At Banchory Station   these two boys once attended the
arrival of the Queen on her way to Balmoral.
   We were both dressed alike in kilts — black jacket and
waistcoat, silver buttons, brown winsey kilt and tartan
plaid (dark blue and green).
   Davie learned foil fencing and gave me some lessons in
their backyard.    Davie used to stand with his back to
an old hen house with a trellis front, inhabited by one
old hen, which had never been known within the memory
of the Gill children to lay an egg.   More by good luck

  1843-60]                 BOYHOOD                         9
 than skill, in one of my lunges I struck Davie on the top
 of his mask and tumbled him backwards.              The old
  trelliswork got the full weight of his body, and went down
 inside the hen house with a great crash, Davie on top.
  He lay motionless, and I thought I had done him some
 serious injury, especially as strange sounds seemed to
  come from him.     His brother Pattie and I rushed to him
 to lift him up, but found he could not move for laughter !
 Underneath him was the old hen, and the noise she made
 so tickled Davie that he could not get up for some time.
  We buried her decently.
    I remember he started to make a toy steam-engine,
 but the work of polishing the inside of the cylinder and
 fitting the piston beat him. He then took up chemistry.
 His father had a small attic room in their house in Skene
 Terrace fitted up with the necessary appliances for a
 beginner, and many happy hours he, Pattie and I spent
 in searching for elements.     We used to rummage in the
 Rubislaw Quarries for likely specimens, and submitted
them to all sorts of treatment, but nothing came of our
work but keen excitement and pleasurable expectation.
    He never gave me any evidence in those days of his
coming great career as an astronomer. If he had become
a geologist I would not have been surprised, as he had a
strong bent in that direction.
    His mental attitude as a boy differed from mine on
many things; he was very conservative and prone to
hug good old ideas.         We quarrelled for some weeks
because I sneered at the possibility of the devil having a
corporeal existence.     Davie stoutly held that such views
were highly dangerous, if not blasphemous, but after a
talk with his father he admitted that it was a doubtful
question, and our friendship was resumed.
    As will be told presently, Davie returned from Dollar
in 1858 to attend classes at Marischal College, Aberdeen ;
and during the years 1861-2 was away from home learn
ing the trade of watchmaking, and from 1863 to 1872
was in his father's business.
    No letters from David's oldest brother to him have
been preserved, though some of David's to him have

 1o             PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD                       [Chap.   I
 been found.       Pat was the nearest to him in age and
 appreciation     for, if not sympathy with, his scientific
 tastes.    Neither of the other brothers took the slightest
 interest in these pursuits. In fact, Jemmie rather despised
 them, because they were a barrier to the common interests
 of himself and David, whom he admired greatly.                Both
 Davie and Jemmie were keen volunteers and marksmen
 with the rifle. James Gill sends the following short note
 from Australia —
    In   response   to your request     I am   endeavouring to
write what I can remember of my brother Davie when
we were more or less boys.         Davie was away at school at
 Dollar up to the time I was about ten years. Then he
came back to Aberdeen and went to the University,
during which time I had a tutor, and then went to the
Grammar School and to the University. From the age
 of fifteen till I went to Australia in 1867 we were the
 greatest of pals ; we were both of us very proud of shoot
 ing with gun and rifle. Davie became a volunteer about
 1861.     I joined 1864, and we used to go to the rifle range
 at Nigg,1 just over the river Dee, on fine mornings
 several times a week and practise rifle shooting. Davie
 was always a good shot with both gun and rifle, but he
 did best with the small-bore at long ranges — 800, 900 and
 1000 yards.      At that time he used a " Henry." He got
 into the Scottish Eight, but could not shoot — the reason
 I forget. He won heaps of prizes at different times, and
 was a most enthusiastic volunteer.         Davie and I were
 about equal with the old muzzle-loading
                                                       " Enfield,"
which was the service rifle at that time. I won the
Battalion Cup when I was seventeen, beating Davie
 amongst many others.
    As I have said before, I went to Australia in 1867, and
saw nothing more of Davie till 1876, when I came home
for a holiday. He was living then at Dun Echt, and you
   1 Note by Mr. Harvey Hall. —The rifle range James Gill refers
to was the one at the Bay of Nigg, on the sea coast about two
and a half miles from Aberdeen. Many a day we have shot
there together, and often went and shot twenty rounds before
breakfast, five miles with a rifle. We thought little of it in those
days.

1843-60]                 BOYHOOD                            ii
may be sure I saw as much of him as I could.      I  rejoined
the volunteers, and with Davie used to put in a lot of
time practising and shooting at the different
                                                    "
                                                      wapin-
schaws."     Of course, at this time Davie was over head
and ears in astronomy.     I knew it was coming when we
were younger.     Davie and I would be coming home from
a ball, and Davie would
                             " stick     " and would
                                      up                  say,
"                       "
   Jem, look at that !    gazing up at the sky. I would
      "
say,     Come on, Davie; it's three o'clock."    No good —
later he would do the same thing. All the same, he was
the best of brothers, and had more knowledge —and the
reason why — about anything than any other fellow I
ever met.
    Mr. Alexander Davidson, of Wimbledon, was in his
youth a fellow-student with David Gill at the classes of
Clerk Maxwell and others in Aberdeen from 1858. They
fraternized, and he stayed occasionally for a night in
Skene Terrace. He says —
    The feature which impressed me above everything else
was his immense vitality. He was always keen in every
thing he engaged in, whether it were work or play, astro
nomy or rifle practice, sport or dancing. I never knew
any one fonder of dancing than he, and he told me a few
weeks before his last illness that he still delighted in it.
He had in a very high degree the joie de vivre which only
falls to a lucky few.
    I have also happy recollections of accompanying my
friend to match-rifle practice on the seashore at the Bay
of Nigg, at unearthly hours of the morning.          Mr. Gill
senior would not allow us to waste later hours of the day
in so frivolous an amusement.
   On his return from Dollar to Aberdeen in 1858 he
attended some of the classes at Marischal College as a
private student, the term applied to those not seeking to
qualify for a degree. The entries in the students' album
are in his own handwriting.       In the session 1858-9 he
                     "
enters himself as      David Gill, aged fifteen, born at
Aberdeen, son of David, watchmaker, attending 1st
mathematics and natural history." In this session he

12           PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD                  [Chap.  I
also attended Professor Brasier's class in chemistry.     In
the session 1859-60 his entry is in similar terms, attend
ing 2nd (highest) mathematics and natural philosophy.
The prize lists give his name in the first of these sessions
as being thirteenth     in mathematics.     In the second
session he is fourth in the regular class of natural philo
sophy and third in the voluntary exercises for that class.
His name also appears in the prize list of the chemical
class, 1859-60, in which he is bracketed fourth with
James Moir of New Deer. He got no prize for natural
history, and in his second session of mathematics his
name is not one of the sixteen prizemen mentioned. It
must be noted, however, that his mathematics at this
date were chiefly learnt from Dr. David Rennett, LL.D.,
                     "       "
the mathematical       coach    who taught all the best
mathematical youth of the university.
    It was, then, in the session 1859-60 that Gill distin
 guished himself in the work of the natural philosophy
 class, and came under the influence of that great, pro
 found, unselfish and inspiring philosopher, Professor
 James Clerk Maxwell, in a year distinguished, as Maxwell
used to say, for the ability of his students.    Nine years
later Maxwell wrote in a testimonial  —
    Mr. David Gill was one of my ablest students in Maris-
 chal College, Aberdeen.     He was even then devising
 methods for the experimental determination of physical
 quantities.
    It has often been said of Clerk Maxwell    at Aberdeen,
as of Lord Kelvin at Glasgow, that his professorial
lectures were over the heads of the very young men
 who attended the classes of Scottish universities.    After
the lecture, however, he used to remain sometimes for
hours talking with three or four of his most eager dis
 ciples, showing them some experiment on which he was
engaged, or telling them about problems that awaited
solution.

1843-60]        JAMES CLERK MAXWELL                             13
   Gill's friends of later life must all remember how en
thusiastic he became when recounting his experiences
under that great teacher. He has told us 1 that Maxwell
                                                              " in
gave them a few lectures on practical astronomy,
one of which he exhibited a model of a transit instrument
(made out of tin-plate and mounted on wooden piers)."
This is interesting, for in the Life of James Clerk Maxwell
(Macmillan, 1882), at p. 292, we read, in a letter to C. J.
Munro, from Aberdeen, dated November 26, 1857 —
   I have had a lot of correspondence about Saturn's
Rings, Electric Telegraph, Tops, and Colours. I am
making a Collision of Bodies machine, and a model of
Airy's Transit Circle (with lenses), and I am having
students' teas when I can.
 . Again, at p. 295 of Maxwell's Life, we read —
   I  am happy in the knowledge of a good tinsmith, an
optician and a carpenter. The tinsmith made the Transit
Circle.
   When Gill was shown this model he learnt not only the
mode of using a transit circle, but also its errors and the
methods used in measuring, and making corrections for,
these errors.
   A love   of paradox as a form of humour is not uncommon
among men of great intellect, especially mathematicians.
Clerk Maxwell indulged in it so much that many of his
serious utterances were regarded by his friends in that
light.     His astounding proposal, in 1858, for a truly
scientific standard of length, to be measured in wave
lengths of light,2 to replace our arbitrary yard or metre,
was regarded      by many as a huge joke, until the time
came    when its value was proved by the most refined
experiments.      It then became Gill's duty, near the end
of his life, to urge upon the International Bureau of
   1 History
              and Description of the Royal Observatory, Cape of
Good Hope, 1913, p. xxxi, hereafter referred to as
                                                   " History, etc."
   •
     The length of a wave of green light is about joioo inch.

14            PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD                     [Chap. I
Weights and Measures the importance of defining the
metre in terms of wave-lengths of light.
    Sir David Gill, in his presidential address to the British
Association in 1907, paraphrased a lecture, on the yard
as a standard of length, given by Clerk Maxwell at Aber
deen in 1859; and, as illustrating Maxwell's humour, a
portion of it is worth reproducing here. Clerk Maxwell
is quoted by him as saying of the yard —                       ,
    At all events, you must see that it is a very unpractical
standard — unpractical because if, for example, any of
you went to Mars or Jupiter, and the people there asked
you what was your standard of measure, you could not
tell them, you could not reproduce it, and you would feel
very foolish. Whereas if you told any capable physicist
in Mars or Jupiter that you used some natural invariable
standard, such as the wave-length of one of the D-lines
of sodium vapour, he would be able to reproduce your
yard or your inch, provided that you could tell him how
many of such wave-lengths there were in your yard or
your inch, and your standard would be available any
where in the universe where sodium is found.
    This was the whimsical way in which Clerk Maxwell
 used to impress great principles upon us.      We all laughed
 before we understood; then some of us understood and
 remembered.
    James Clerk Maxwell was, in the opinion of many, the
 greatest   natural philosopher that     the world has seen
 since the death of Isaac Newton,        and his great book,
 Electricity and Magnetism, is one       of the few volumes
 worthy to be placed on the same         shelf with Newton's
 Principia. Gill had, all through        his life, the highest
 veneration for any man of outstanding genius in his own
 line of work; and it was inevitable that, having sat at
 the feet of that great man from the year 1859 onwards,
                                                          "
 he should have said, towards the close of his life,        His
 teaching influenced the whole of my future life."
    During the period 1858-60, while attending classes at
 the university, he was at the same time coached in

 1843-60]              DR. RENNETT                          15
mathematics and natural philosophy by Dr. David
Rennett, the " Routh
                           "
                             of Aberdeen University. This
admirable teacher was the idol of all his pupils, many
of whom may be met to-day in the town of Aberdeen
and within the precincts of the university.       There can
be no doubt that Gill owed to David Rennett the pains
taking instruction that gave him, during the whole of
his scientific career, the power to deal effectively, under
limitations, with every mathematical problem arising in
his investigations.     The circumstances of his domestic
relations, and his father's fixed desire that he, as the
eldest son, should succeed him in the watchmaking
business, put all thought of a Cambridge mathematical
degree out of the question, though he had in him the stuff
out of which senior wranglers were made.
   Davie Rennett continued to be one of Sir David's dear
friends till his death, and the teacher did not survive this
favourite pupil of his a year. Shortly before his own
death he wrote out the following —
      Notes concerning the late Sir David          Gill
   Joined my Classes in November 1858 and was at same
time attending Junior Mathematical Class at Marischal
College.
   Attended     the  Classes  of Senior  Mathematics     and
Natural Philosophy at Marischal College, Session 1859-60.
   Very soon got quite enthusiastic over the work in the
Nat. Philosophy Class. Was inspired by the then Pro
fessor, Clerk Maxwell,    which led to a lifelong friendship
between them.
   When he had finished his course at the University he
still kept working at the subjects he had read there, and
I then thought he was likely to direct his future work to
Electricity ; but at that time there were very few facilities
for experimenting on Electricity in Aberdeen.
   About this time he spent a year at Besancon, a great
watch-manufacturing place.
   He suggested to some of the university professors that
Aberdeen should have a time-gun, and on his proposal

 16          PARENTAGE AND BOYHOOD                      [Chap.  I
 getting a favourable reception he soon carried out the
 work.
    Lord Lindsay and he on their return from the Mauritius
stopped some time with the Khedive of Egypt. Dr. Gill
measured a base line to be used for a future Trigono
metrical Survey of Egypt. The Khedive proposed to
him to conduct that survey.1 He asked my advice on
the subject. My advice was not to have anything to do
with it unless the financial position was made perfectly
clear and safe. Egypt at that time was in a transition
state, and the country was under the co-dominion of
Britain and France.                           D. Rennett.
   To explain. A large number of the students attended
my classes in the winter during the College session and
also during the summer.        So that the future astronomer
read with me from Novr. 1858 to April 1860. — D. R.
    Sir David Gill was very fond of talking of his old days
 at college.  On November 19, 1908, he presided at the
fiftieth half-yearly dinner in London of the Aberdeen
 University Club. In the course of his speech he said —
    I am told that on this occasion the proper thing to do
is to recount to you reminiscences — to tell you something
of what I remember of my own career when I was there,
or rather of the personages whom I encountered. Most
of you, I may say, remember the man whom I first went
to — that sort of extra-mural professor, Davie Rennett.
I remember vividly the grand old Doric with which he
used to teach us our mathematics.         I remember "one of
these demonstrations    —              —
                           in optics and he said,         Well,
gentlemen, you know the light goes through the hole
there, and it fa's on that mirror ; syne it stots aff , syne it
gangs through the lens, and it's refracted to the focus."
All these things come back to one now, but none of us
who were ministered to by Rennett and received his
ministrations in a sympathetic spirit will ever forget the
debt of gratitude we owe to him. Do you remember
Professor Nicol ? He was another character. . . . Then
there was another man of whom I would like to say
something — a man whose memory sticks to me in a
thousand ways, and a man of whom I had a tremendous
                         1
                            See p. 78.

 1843-60]  RECOLLECTIONS        OF HIS YOUTH            17
idea — that was Clerk Maxwell.     He was one of two or
three of the greatest geniuses who have lived since the
days of Newton, and yet they did not understand him in
Aberdeen somehow. He was not a schoolmaster at all.
His lectures were terrible, and his experiments always
failed — but they were always much more interesting in
the failure than if they had gone on. Those of us who
chose to stay behind after the class used to get a most
delightful hour or two, and learn an immense deal that
we never forgot — a great deal that we did not understand
at the time, but that came back to us afterwards — until
Mrs. Clerk Maxwell arrived, wondering why the professor
had not come home to his dinner, and carried him away
nolens volens.
   There was another man who did not belong to Marischal
College, but whom most of you who have been at King's
                                      "
knew very well — David Thomson — Davie," as every
body called him. It was very much owing to Thomson
and his sympathy that    I began my astronomical career.
I  used to know him very well.      He was very fond of
smoking, and Mrs. Thomson did not like smoke. The
observatory was a convenient place in which to keep
churchwarden clays, and there was a stove there where
these clays used to have the old oil burned out.    Many
a delightful hour I have spent there.

                          CHAPTER      II
               CHOICE OF A PROFESSION       (1860-3)
 Trade v. Science — In the workshops — Besancon, Switzerland,
      Coventry, Clerkenwell — Skill acquired — Lord Kelvin — In
      partnership — Correct time for Aberdeen — Professor David
      Thomson — Practical astronomy at King's College.
 The year     1860 nearly     proved fatal to David's hopes
 for a scientific career. Clerk Maxwell left Aberdeen;
 and David Gill senior, having differences with his partner
in the firm Gill & Smith, and being seventy-one years old,
insisted that young David should enter the business.
    Up to this date Aberdeen University possessed two
rival colleges, Marischal College and King's College,
each with its own staff of professors and its own revenues.
This anomalous condition was at last ended and the
junior Professor of Natural Philosophy was retired.
   At this time young David Gill, though happy and
contented with his place in life, had already absorbed so
much of the spirit of genuine science as to be filled with
desire, and conscious of power, to follow with humility
in the steps of the great discoverers. This feeling set
up a positive repugnance to devoting his life to trade.
Still, he was not able, or did not consider it right, to oppose
his father's wishes.     So he finally consented to become a
watchmaker, and took up his duties in Union Street.
This, however, did not involve a desertion of science, for
he still had the little laboratory in the attic in Skene
Terrace, and later he set up a telescope in the garden.
   Meanwhile, he applied his chief energies to the fulfil
ment of his stern father's wishes, and arranged with him a
                                18

 i86o-3]      WATCHMAKING IN PRACTICE                      19
 scheme of education in the practical part of the profession,
 for acquiring, at the great centres of the industry, the
 mechanical skill required in the art of watchmaking.
 This course of instruction lasted through the years 1861
 and 1862. The great centres for the manufacture of
 clocks and watches in this country were Clerkenwell and
 Coventry.     On the Continent Switzerland then, as now,
 held the foremost place.      Accordingly the plan finally
 adopted was to make a preliminary visit to London,
 spend the next year in or near Switzerland, includ
 ing Besancon, and, seeing something of Paris on the
 way, to finish this part of his education at Coventry
 and Clerkenwell.
    A contemporary of that period, Miss Fanny Ranyell,
 has called up her recollections of the time and noted them
 in a letter to Mr. Arthur Wilson.
    I do not remember precisely how long he stayed on his
first visit to London.   He went to Switzerland for a time
afterwards, and also to Coventry, all for watchmaking,
but I could not fit these visits in chronologically.      He
certainly made more than one stay in London, and at
one time belonged to a society, literary and scientific,
I think, in Islington, and used to give lectures at the
meetings. He used to stay sometimes at your father's
house and spent a great deal of his time there when in
lodgings. I remember him very, very well in those days.
He was always very enthusiastic over everything he did
that really appealed to him, but did not care for the
watchmaking business.       Very good-tempered and happy
and taking everything in the best part, even when your
father lectured him, which he used to sometimes as he
would his own son.
   There can be no doubt that these years of work with
his fingers, when learning to handle tools and to execute
the most delicate construction, by skilful manipulation
only to be attained in practice, and the experience in
mechanical drawing, were of untold value to him, not
merely in its primary object of improving and extending

20             CHOICE OF A PROFESSION                 [Chap.  II
the    operations of his father's business, but afterwards
in supplying the technical skill required in the design,
construction, alteration and use — with his own hands —
of all those delicate instruments and complicated engineer
ing machinery with which he had to deal in later years.
These are too often the weak points of a man who adopts
astronomy as a profession. Then, again, his acquisition
of at least a great fluency in the French language during
his long residence in Switzerland, came to be of the
utmost value to him later on. These years of application
to manual labour and dexterity have probably done more
for the progress of astronomy than could ever have been
accomplished had he spent them on the study of advanced
 mathematics.
    Long afterwards, when he was carrying on his work at
the Cape Observatory, he expressed himself, in a letter
 to James Nasmyth, March 16, 1886, in these words —
    You   are quite right in saying, as you do to my wife,
        I
that find the use of tools a great assistance.         I  assure
you    the  best part of my   astronomical  education   was  the
        I
 time spent in a workshop.        Here, far away from    Grubb,
 or Cooke, or Troughton & Simms, many a mess           I should
 have been in but for that training — and many a change
 of great practical utility  I have made on the instruments
 here with my own hands.
    At the beginning of     1862, on his return from abroad,
 he went into the workshops of Mr. Wooton at Coventry
 for six months, and finally completed his training by
                       "            "
 entering himself as improver         in the business of Mr. L.
  Schuessler, a practical watchmaker, then at 23 Spencer
  Street, Clerkenwell.     Mr. Schuessler is still living, and
  told  the  writer that it was in the summer of 1862 that
  David Gill entered his service to gain a knowledge of the
  London system of manufacturing watches, clocks and
  chronometers. During the six months he was there he
  occupied himself busily in this endeavour, and made up
  a number of watches on his own account.        Mr. Schuessler

i86o-3]      'A SKILLED WATCHMAKER*                       21
said that when Gill began with him he was already a
skilled watchmaker.      He was energetic in searching all
Clerkenwell for new ideas.        Moreover, in that period
he completed a marine chronometer, carrying out in it
an invention of his own, consisting of an improvement
in the compensation balance wheel.
    Among the friends he made in the watchmaking trade
at Clerkenwell were the Haswell family, the old firm of
Robert Haswell & Son, of 48, 49 & 50 Spencer Street,
with whom Mr. Schuessler had almost daily dealings.
Mr. James Haswell thus speaks of David Gill in those
days —
    He was a young man then of delightful and courteous
manners, with a cultivated taste, and a true appreciation
of classical music. To recall the past is a pleasing task,
for all associations with him at that time are very agree
able memories.      My recollection is that he was naturally
artistic and many-sided, that his gifts and taste were
developed by training and cultivation.       I may add that
at this time we were living as a family at our place of
business, and Gill used frequently to call.       We much
enjoyed   his visits, my  sisters were  musical and  he was
pleased with their playing.     On one occasion he gave one
of them a copy of Beethoven's Sonatas which she still
has. He came to London with the object of acquiring
a wider knowledge of horological art than his home
surroundings afforded.
    Our business association with him was continued after
his return north.     We had some transactions with him
when he became astronomer at Dun Echt for the Earl
of Crawford and Balcarres.
    I may also add that the late Sir David was a good shot
at the rifle butts in those days. I remember being in
Lauder — my father's native town in Scotland — when
he happened to be there on a business journey.          This
must have been about 1864 or 1865. The Lauder Volun
teers— I think they became the 5th Berwickshires —were
firing, and Gill, with his small-bore rifle, made the best
shooting.
    Both Mr. Haswell     and Mr, Schuessler speak of the

  22            CHOICE OF A PROFESSION                 [Chap. II
  inventive genius displayed by young Gill, especially in
  regard to pendulums and balance wheels.
     All the later friends of Sir David Gill must remember
  the elegant clock, made with his own hands, which stood
 on the mantelpiece of his study at De Vere Gardens,
  Kensington.
     His skill in clock design and construction was at first
 one of his principal claims to notice among scientific
 men, who very soon began to consult him on points of
 design.    For example, a group of experimenters, members
 of the British Association, including Mr. C. H. Gimingham,
 who constructed Crookes' vacuum tubes, was formed
 into a committee, to apply the Crookes principle of repul
 sion in vacuo produced by light as a means for timing
 the impulse to a pendulum for astronomical clocks without
 the friction of the usual pallets. Immediately, and as a
 matter of course, Gill was invited to join that committee.1
     It was not in watchmaking alone that his practical
skill and ingenuity were immediately recognized. For
example, one day in the 'sixties of last century, Gill,
quite a youngster, was in Glasgow, and entered the shop
of an optician in Union Street kept by one James White
(the small shop which developed into the great engineering
                      " Kelvin & White
concern known as                        "). While standing
at the counter looking at some instrument he felt a slap
on the back and, turning round, met the beaming face of
his old professor, James Clerk Maxwell, who introduced
him to his companion, Professor William Thomson (after
wards Lord Kelvin), saying,
                                 " You are the
                                                 very man we
want, to give us the benefit of your practical experience."
They discussed with him some apparatus, and took him
home to breakfast ; and he then told his people that he
   1  This committee consisted of " Mr. David Gill, Professor
G. Forbes, Mr. Howard Grubb, and Mr. C. H. Gimingham."
See B. A. Report, 1880, p. 56; where the report by D. Gill is
printed. It had been read at the Sheffield meeting in 1879.
The gravity escapement of his great Cape sidereal clock is here
described.

1860-3]        BECOMES JUNIOR PARTNER                       23
thought it was the proudest moment of his life. This
introduction led to a permanent and intimate friendship
with Lord Kelvin, for whom he had the most profound
veneration.
    On his return to Aberdeen, in 1863, his father made him
 a junior partner, and his firm from that time was known
 as David Gill & Son.
    David Gill's apprenticeship during two years was a
 symptom of the thoroughness with which he always
 faced a manifest duty, even so uncongenial a duty as
 entering upon a tradesman's career.        Although during
 that period he could not make much progress in science,
 there is plenty of evidence that it occupied his spare time.
 Still, there is no doubt that his yielding to his father's
 wish had checked him in his earnest endeavour to find a
 career in science.    Circumstances of no great importance
 in themselves did, however, combine, at and after the age
 of twenty, when he returned from his wanderings and
 settled down to the workshop, in the year 1863, to direct
 his thoughts more than ever before to the science of
 astronomy, not as before by reading books, or by gazing
 at the glory of Orion, but by personal observation and
 measurement with the real instruments.
     His first impulse in this direction was modest enough.
 He felt that even a humble clockmaker like himself might
 benefit his town by taking observations with an instru
 ment something like the model of Airy's transit circle
 which Clerk Maxwell had shown him, and thus giving
 correct time to the town of Aberdeen.
     Accordingly, in the year 1863, while he was still assidu
 ous in continuing his laboratory experiments in the attic
  of his father's house in Skene Terrace, he sought the
  acquaintance of the only man now able to help him since
  the departure of James Clerk Maxwell from Aberdeen.
 This was David Thomson, a remarkable man, and Pro
  fessor of Natural Philosophy in King's College.
     David Thomson was born at Leghorn, received his

24              CHOICE OF A PROFESSION                    [Chap. II
early education in Italy and Lausanne, and became a
student in Glasgow University, and a pupil of the mathe
matical Professor James Thomson, father of the late
Lord Kelvin. He then completed his education at Trinity
College, Cambridge.          After that he returned to Glasgow
as assistant in natural philosophy to Professor Meikleham
while William Thomson (afterwards Lord Kelvin) was a
student in the class.         When the professor's health gave
way, David Thomson acted for him, and laid the founda
tion of his own remarkable skill as a teacher.                  His
biographer tells us     —   1
    The future Peer [Lord Kelvin] and P. R. S. was
continually in the laboratory with David Thomson,
hearing a great deal about Faraday and his electrical
discoveries.
    His biographer, whose house at Largs is almost
within a stone's throw of Lord Kelvin's, writes,
                                                              " the
younger man has neither forgotten nor discredited the
older."
    In 1845 David Thomson, at the age of twenty-eight,
                      "
was appointed            Regent and Professor of Natural
 Philosophy in the University and King's College, Aber
deen." For thirty-five years he continued to be one of
 its most effective teachers and, along with his colleague
in the mathematical chair, Professor Frederick Fuller,
 sent up to Cambridge a long array of senior wranglers
 and high honours men.2
    1
      David Thomson, M.A., Professor of Natural Philosophy in
 the   University of Aberdeen.      A sketch of his character and
career.     By William Leslie Low, M.A., Rector of St. Columba,
 Largs, and Canon of Cumbrae.
    * It is
             noteworthy that, in ten successive years, the Scottish
 universities sent to Cambridge five men who gained the senior
 wranglership, viz. —
                  G. M. Slesser (Aberdeen), 185S.
                  J. Stirling (Aberdeen), i860.
                  T. Barker (Aberdeen), 1862.
                  R. Morton (Glasgow), 1866.
                  C. Niven (Aberdeen), 1867.

i86o-3]     PROFESSOR DAVID THOMSON                         25
   This stern, inflexible professor was much respected by
the students.
   By patience and perseverance he shaped the policy of
the university to provide a scheme, and pressed it in the
face of violent opposition, for abolishing the anomaly of
two colleges.    The
                      "
                        fusion
                                " of these on the lines of his
scheme was accomplished      in 1860 ; and the history of the
transaction may be read in his biography.
   At p. 102 in the biography of David Thomson we read —
   Astronomy, too, had great attractions for him, and he
spent many hours in the old square tower, which used to
be called by the name of Cromwell, in the Observatory
which he founded there.        It was here that the present
Astronomer Royal at the Cape, Dr. Gill, was inspired by
Professor Thomson with his well-known enthusiasm for
the science of the heavenly bodies.
   As a matter of fact it was young David who spurred
the astronomical tastes of his senior. He went with an
introduction to Piazzi Smyth at Edinburgh to inspect
the transit instrument and the time gun; returned and
got Thomson's help to rig up an old instrument at King's
College, and observed stars to get the true time.
   Every clear evening I used to find my way to his house
in Old Aberdeen, whence we adjourned to the observatory
and worked with the transit instrument.         There was a
good sidereal clock, and we added a mean time clock fitted
with arrangements for changing its rate by known con
siderable amounts, or by small known quantities, so that
it could without difficulty be set or be kept within a
small portion of a second of true Greenwich time. This
clock I also fitted with contact springs, so that it could
send electric currents, reversed at each alternate second,
to control other clocks in sympathy with the observatory
standard.     A Bain's pendulum was procured from
Messrs. Jas. Ritchie & Son of Edinburgh, and applied to
the turret clock of the college, which was thus controlled
to show Greenwich mean time, and at least one other
clock in Aberdeen was afterwards similarly controlled.

26              CHOICE OF A PROFESSION                   [Chap. II
   Gill tells us that after these services had been reduced
to a matter of simple routine, Professor Thomson bought
a 3^ in. telescope, 4 ft. focus, by Dallmeyer, equatoreally
mounted, and they placed it under the other dome, and
made attempts to measure double stars, etc. The object-
glass was exceedingly good, but the mounting too feeble,
the clockwork and slow motions too unsatisfactory to
allow of accurate work.
    It will be a matter for surprise to many astronomers
to learn that, even now, a pilgrimage may be made to
this scene of Gill's first efforts in astronomical observ
ing, where the very same instruments, as described by
him in his book fifty years later, are standing and in use
exactly as he left them. The writer was surprised to
find them when at Aberdeen in July 1915. Mr. Anderson,
Librarian, and Mr. Clark, who uses the instruments,
showed them, mounted in the observatory, as described
by Gill.         The transit instrument bears the name,
" Thomas
                Jones, of Charing Cross, London." The
                       "
sidereal clock is by Sangster & Dunningham,1 Aberdeen."
The mean solar time clock bears on its dial the inscrip
tion,
         " D. Gill & Son, Aberdeen, watchmakers to the
Queen."       It has a mercurial pendulum with a small
shelf on the bob for the adjustment of weights on the
shelf. It carries the electric contacts made by Gill,
which are still used for controlling a clock on the main
tower of the college and for driving and controlling
a Ritchie clock in the quadrangle.          Mr. Clark said that
it used to control a third clock a mile away, in Marischal
College, but does so no longer.
    The equatoreally mounted telescope of 3*4 inch object
                            "
                              A. Ross, London," not
                                                           " Dall
glass bears the name
meyer," as Gill says.2
    Looking around, there was found in this room a large
card with a list of double stars with particulars in tabular
   1
      Who succeeded at Aberdeen to the business of David Gill &
Son.
   *
      It appears that Dallmeyer was at one time A. Ross' manager.

1 860-3]     ASTRONOMICAL      BEGINNINGS            27
form, in the handwriting of David Thomson, just as they
left it half a century ago.
   Gill's astronomical appetite being whetted by use
of these instruments, he proceeded soon to build an
observatory of his own, as will be told later.

                        CHAPTER       III
                      IN TRADE (1863-72)
  His pleasures —Astronomy —Art — Rifle shooting — Lieutenant
           D. Gill — Harvey Hall — Letters to Australia.
   The period of Gill's life from   1863 to 1872 was   primarily
taken up with the trade to which his father wished him
to devote the whole of his life. No doubt young David
had the usual experiences of a merchant, touting for
orders, cutting out competitors, reprimanding dilatory
dealers, travelling through Scotland to extend his busi
ness, hunting up bad debts and cutting losses.
   No one who knew the David Gill of later years, the
zealous and renowned astronomer, can believe that he
could ever have enjoyed this commercial drudgery.            He
 did not. He hated it. But his judgment told him it was
a duty, so he resolved to make a success of it by patient
and dogged perseverance — and he did so. And to this
extent these years of trade were not altogether lost years.
He discovered, in fact, in himself the
                                             "
                                               perfervidum in-
                     "
genium Scotorum which served him so well in astronomy.
He even confessed in later days that this business training
enabled him to deal easily with much correspondence
of a kind which is often a cause of worry to many an
astronomer.1
   But it must not be supposed that when he shut the
office door he was unable to turn to a happier existence.
He thoroughly enjoyed life.          He had a happy home
in his family circle. He loved music, and soon acquired
                           1
                             See p. 233.
                                 28

1863-72]                RECREATIONS                        29
a taste for other arts.    He had cheerful companions with
whom he could roam the country round, at the seaside
or in the lovely valleys of the Dee or Don, even to Ballater
and Braemar.        He enjoyed female society. A picnic or
a ball was always a joy to him.     Those who joined him in
rifle shooting were as full of fun and zeal as he was. He
could explore the quarries for geological specimens, and
in the evenings could take his chosen friends into his
laboratory to experiment in chemistry, mineralogy and
electricity.    But later on, above all these things — if his
day had been worried, perhaps, by the hopelessness of
collecting some bad debt — he could always cross the street
from his father's house into his temple in the garden when
he had established there his observatory and a beautiful
telescope, as will be related in the next chapter.        He
loved this telescope as he might a human being, for
the sympathy and comfort that it seemed to bring to
him.
    These last words have not been written at random or
by guessing, but are a summary of what has been told
by those who knew him in those years.
    The irresistible and compelling attraction of astronomy
for the mind of David Gill began only when he discovered
the delight of
                   "           "
                                 and of getting information
                     observing
at first hand from the stars themselves, instead of from
 books, and when he realized the potentialities of his own
 keen eyesight and delicate touch in handling instruments.
 Previous to that date his love for the stars arose largely
 from the emotional and aesthetic side of his character;
 and this point of view remained with him always. When
 to wonder, admiration and awe in contemplation of the
 heavens there is added a personal contact with the objects
 of admiration, through information due to his own clear
 ness of vision and sureness in manipulation, it is then only
 that the astronomer knows how immeasurably more real
 is this knowledge of his than all the dicta of the mere
 encyclopaedist.     The personal affection thus created in

  30                     IN TRADE                  [Chap.  Ill
  the mind of a real astronomer for the planets and
  double stars and nebulae and comets which he observes
  extends also to the instruments        he has made his
 own.
     But Gill had also artistic tastes. John Brodie, R.S.A.,
 the sculptor, was at this time one of his intimate friends,
 and it was through the Brodies that he came to know
 that remarkable painter, John Phillip, who was a native
 of Aberdeen, in whose studio he spent very happy hours
 listening to the talk of all the distinguished Scottish
 artists, and acquired that love of colour which never
  ceased to give him joy. His friendships with Sir George
 Reid and Colin Hunter brought him later into touch with
 Millais, Watts and Joseph Israels, and their work, in the
 years 1876-9.
     Up to the age of twenty he was trying to find his own
 real bent. His family had no scientific leanings, his father
 had no scientific books in his library. Yet, from the
 moment he came under the influence of Dr. Lindsay at
 Dollar, and of Clerk Maxwell and David Thomson at
 Aberdeen, he knew that it was to science that he must
 look for permanent interest. But whether the great truths
he sought were to come from chemistry, mineralogy, heat,
light, electricity, geology, astronomy, or even mathe
matics, he could not at first tell. He would have made
his mark in any one of the branches of exact science.
But he spent himself during the early years in search of
the sacred fire, and then, as later, lighter pleasures were
taken earnestly, and music and even dancing with energy.
His best friends at that time did not know in what
direction his love for exactness and truth would lead
him. His brother Jem alone suspected astronomy, Dr.
Rennett electricity, Harvey Hall rifle shooting, his young
friend Gerald Baker thought it was geology, many
others chemistry, while the Clerkenwell people were most
mistaken in saying it was watchmaking.
    It was not until, in 1863, he used his hands and eyes

  1863-72]     'MATHEMATICAL       INTUITION'           31
  for making astronomical observations, and reducing them,
  that he knew the direction in which he might hope to
  find true satisfaction.  He was no theorist, but he had
  an intensely mathematical and exact mind, with great
  perseverance   (as every astronomer who knew him per
  ceived). It may be well to insert here the considered
  opinion of one of the greatest of those who survive him.
  Dr. Backhand, head of the Imperial Observatory of
  Pulkowa, in Russia, has put in writing his own opinion,
  which is generally endorsed.
     He was not a trained mathematician in the strict
  signification of the word, his career had given him no
 leisure to cultivate this science especially; but he pos
  sessed deep mathematical intuition, which helped him
 to overcome easily mathematical difficulties appearing in
 his astronomical works.
     If he had chosen mathematics as his special object,
 he would certainly have ranked among the mathemati
 cians even as high as he did as astronomer among the
 astronomers.
     The fact must now be recalled that at this period
 (1863 onwards) he was full of business, and shooting
 became a great enjoyment, when he found that in
 this direction he might hope to reach the top of the
 tree.
    As his brother Jem has told us, rifle-shooting     was
 perhaps his greatest distraction from business at one
 time. He was a most energetic volunteer, and joined
 before the Clerkenwell days. Among the few papers
preserved by him relating to these old days, we find his
commission as lieutenant in the first Aberdeenshire Rifle
Volunteer Corps (now the 4th Gordons) granted by the
vice-lieutenant of the county, Sir Alexander Bannerman
of Elswick, on March 21, 1868. He retired October
13, 1872.
    He soon found that he might hope to become a first-
rate shot, and the shooting and drilling gave him good

 32                       IN TRADE                  [Chap. Ill
 exercise  and genial companionship, even before his skill
had brought him into contact with the small-bore crack
shots of the county, among whom were included the
late Earl of Aberdeen, and that almost perfect man,
 the Hon. James H. Gordon (both elder brothers of the
 present Marquis of Aberdeen).
   An authentic account of his ability in this field is given
in a note written by his most intimate and life-long
friend, Mr. Harvey Hall, a well-known           advocate in
Aberdeen.
   He was a fine long-range rifle shot, using a match rifle,
was    a member of a long-range rifle club, which prac
tised at a range at Dyce, near Aberdeen.         In the year
 1869   he  qualified for  the Scottish Eight,  to  represent
Scotland in the Elcho Shield Competition, but was pre
vented engaging in the competition.         His appointment
as H.M. Astronomer at the Cape, where he went in 1879,
prevented him from following what would have been a
distinguished career as a rifle shot.
   He was an excellent game shot, and during the few
months before his death engaged          in grouse-shooting,
deer-stalking    and pheasant-shooting.
   The delight taken by Gill in the accurate performance
of his gun and rifle lasted thoughout his life, both in
South Africa and at home.        In his later years he was
always a welcome guest on the moors and deer forests
of Scotland, and the English coverts.
   A propos of shooting, after his return from the Cape
to live in London he was sometimes an honoured guest at
the Banff Club. On one of these occasions when he was
to reply for the guests, the chairman, Mr. Farquharson,
M.P., said —
   I  am told that Sir David Gill is quite an expert on
shooting stars. All I can say is that if you saw him on
my moor in Scotland, behind the butts in a driving wind,
you would say he is an expert on shooting grouse.
   Of all his brothers, Pat, the next to him in age, had the

1863-72]              RIFLE-SHOOTING                          33
most respect for his scientific tastes, but it was the
Benjamin      of the family, Jemmie, whose            common
interest with him was their love of sport and rifle-
shooting.
    When Jem had gone to Australia in 1867, David seldom
bored his brother with astronomy, but wrote to him all
the news about rifle practice and
                                       "                "
                                          wapinschaws      and
the progress of their volunteer corps, as well as about
balls and picnics; and the letters that he then wrote
serve quite well to show this side of his character.
                To James   Gill,  in Australia
                              78 Union Street, Aberdeen,
                                           November 25, 1867.
    My dear Jemmie, — I have to answer your letter from
 Sydney, and give you such news as I think will interest
you. Pat will, of course, show you my letters and others
with the home news, so here goes for matters sporting
and otherwise.
    Pat can give you a letter and papers with details
 of the Wapinschaw, and the triumphant success of this
 child.
    As to Wimbledon, I couldn't go there as, owing to
 Papa's illness, the family had migrated to Ballater, and
 left me here to manage letters alone.
    Scotland, you will see, won the Enfield trophy, the
 Irish Trophy, and only lost the Elcho Shield by one
 point.
    That brute McCrinick of Ayr made an awful mess of
 it, though he made the top score in getting in. Had he
 shot anything like decently, we should have won in a
 canter. Innes from Banff should have had the Queen's
 Prize too, but this would have been almost too much
 happiness. He scored a centre at 800 yards, which was
 marked a miss.      Had he got this centre he would have
 been first, but the officer in charge would not allow an
 orderly to be sent up.
    None of the Aberdeen men did much good.          Chalmers
 got £5  in the Prince of Wales  competition, and some   of the
others had trifles.

  34                      IN TRADE                  [Chap. Ill
     Wilken managed to nail the Dudley prize, five shots
  any rifle at 500 — seven shots at 800 — one prize of £50,
  open to members of the Eights, and winners of £20.
  His score was 44444 at 500; 3344444 at 800. He was
  in the last squad, and when all the others had done he
 had five shots to fire and must make five bulls to win
 and did it. He had also an Albert prize of £10 —at 500
 yards, and I think a running prize.
     I went to Montrose in the hope of getting Ross cup.
 I think I could easily have won it if I could have shot
 for it, but you know I have given up the Enfield, and the
 competition was open only to the first three of any com
 petition.   My only chance therefore was the 200 yds.
 any rifle 5 shots. I got a confounded outer the first
 round, then three bulls —no use — there were three scores
 of 20. I was awfully disgusted. So I went and asked
 to be allowed to compete for the Long range, open only
 to Angus and the Mearns. I was allowed to shoot for
 practice, and made the top score, five shots at 800, 17;
 at 900, 18 ; at 1000, 17 = 52. One point better than my
 Aberdeen score.     I got glory but no money.
    At Kelso, Guthrie was anxious for a shot, so he had a
 party formed when I arrived and we went to the range.
 We had a competition, 15 shots at 500. I astonished the
 Kelso shooting world with the following score —
 out of a possible 60.
    Med Sumner shot well,        Pat knows him, he made
 433434444444444-
    I have not done      any other shooting, except with
Murray Lauder. At the second class target with second
class bull's eye and centre I scored 45 in 15 rounds at
1000 yards.
    The battalion challenge cup was shot for when I was
in the North. Marr won it with a score of 49 — you made
52.    Peter Cowe told me of a feat by Bill his brother.
Tell Pat of it. He saw some geese (Canada) in a pond.
He took his breech loader and muzzle loader. Killed one
with each of his four barrels, and slipped a cartridge into
the breech loader and killed a fifth.   ...
    With love ever dear Jemmie.
    Ever your affect. brother,             Dav. Gill, Jr.

1863-72]      BECOMES LIEUT.,           ist A.R.V.              35
             To Patrick    Gill, in Australia.1
                               78 Union Street, Aberdeen,
                                                 June 18, 1868.
   My dear Pat, — A few lines to tell you what            is going
on.     Before going to news let me tell you that now that
A. Stenhouse has gone out you are in no difficulty.             Be
honest, but look after yourself. Uncle John is too easy.
Uncle Andrew says, in these matters, and therefore I say
look out. You will require on receipt of this to be send
ing off the interest on money I raised for you to meet the
payment in December, as they look for pay* punctually
on the 20th Dec.
   As to what is doing here.
    I think I told you that I have got a commission —
Lieut. of No. 5 Company. That is two nights a week drill
at 8.15. Then I have the Bugle Squad to drill and teach
to shoot, that is four nights a week, viz. 7.30 at Nigg on
two nights, and 7.30 on old town tacks before parade on
other two nights. Add to this a turn at astronomy at
night, and an occasional shot in the morning, and you
account pretty well for my spare time. We are going
 to have a great Wapinschaw and review on 30th June
               **•***
and ist and 2nd July. We have got £180 worth of extra
prizes. I have sent programmes to Jemmie, who will
show them to you. I will write to him with the result of
the shooting and full particulars.
      •
    We had a glorious picnic to Inver, above Balmoral.
 We had rail to Ballater and hired to Inver. We encamped
 on a jolly grass plot beside the river and opened out our
 dinner and champagne. We afterwards had a game at
 Aunt Sally, and drove back to Ballater.         On our way we
were overtaken by the Queen driving in an open carriage
and pair. She passed us. About 300 or 400 yards
further on we were overtaken by two of the Princesses
and a groom, riding.       They passed us and rode in front
of us three or four miles.       The day was lovely and this
little event crowned the whole a great success.
   1
     Owing to the failing health of his father, David, from about
now onwards, not only managed the business, but to a great
extent acted as counsellor and father to the family.

36                      IN TRADE                      [Chap. Ill
   We have the Highland Agricultural Society's show in
the end of July. I expect Peter Cowe north to it.
   To-morrow we have a bazaar here in aid of the Bible
Readers Society, I expect there will be a very full
attendance.
   Harvey Hall won the Cup of the Rifle Club yesterday.
It was presented by the Earl of Aberdeen to be held three
times when it becomes the property of the winner. Harvey
yesterday got it by a shave, and having won it twice
before keeps it.     Its value is £30. Be it understood
I am not a member of the Club 1 not being a billiard
playing and fashionable man, consequently I did not
shoot. I think I could have got into the Scotch eight
this year if I could have got away to Irvine, but I could
not manage that. Scotland you will see lost the Enfield
match this year. Walker of Portlethen was much to
blame for it. He missed 5 shots at 500 yards, but Scot
land had 12 shots to fire and only 18 points to make to
win. The beggars of the last squad only made 3 outers
in the 12 shots. Send this letter to Jem.
   With love ever dear Pat.
   Your affect. brother,                   David Gill, Jr.
   These are samples of many letters written by David
to his brothers in Australia during a period when business
claimed him by day, and he had discovered a new and
absorbing interest at night in the possession of a fine
telescope.    Then, as always, in correspondence or con
 versation, he chose subjects in which his friends were
interested, never introducing his own personal affairs
except when assured of a desire on the part of his friends
to listen.
   It is interesting to note that it was not till 1863 that
he first experienced the joy of real observing with a
transit instrument, nor till 1867 with a fine telescope of
his own. This line of work immediately became such a
 source of happiness and satisfaction to him that from
 now onwards astronomy could claim him as her own.
   1
     The Aberdeen Rifle Club, a small social club, with rooms in
 Aberdeen.

                       CHAPTER IV
               LOVE AND MARRIAGE      (1865-72)
He owns a telescope, and photographs the moon — Dr. Huggins —
     Lord Lindsay — Isobel Black — Canon Low — Lady Gill's
     memories —The marriage.
Probably the most important event, next to his marriage,
in the whole of David Gill's life was the erection of a
small observatory in his father's garden.       His observa
tions made at King's College had delighted him more
than any of the other scientific work he had attempted;
but it was not until he acquired a perfectly mounted
telescope of admirable definition, that he was able to
gauge his own powers in the separation of close double
stars, in catching details of planetary, lunar and nebular
markings and in micrometrical measurements.          Then he
began to know, and soon became convinced, that there
was no field of work in which he could reap so rich a
harvest for science, with his fine eyesight and delicate
touch, as in astronomical measurement; and that this
work alone would satisfy the craving of his nature, if he
could devote all his powers to following in the steps of
Bradley and Bessel, of the Herschels and Struves.
   Dissatisfied with the mounting of Professor Thomson's
small equatoreal, he looked out for the opportunity to
buy one with which he could make good micrometrical
observations of double stars. He says in his History, etc. —
   An advertisement appeared in the Astronomical Register,
in which the Rev. Henry Cooper Key, of Stretton Rectory,
Hereford, offered for sale a telescope with a silver-on-
glass speculum of twelve inches aperture and ten feet
                              37

38                LOVE AND MARRIAGE                      [Chap.   IV
focus.    This he sent to me for trial on a rough wooden
stand. I found        it  gave  admirable    definition,    and    I
purchased it.
   On searching the columns of the Astronomical Register
it appears that the last date when the advertisement
appeared was December 1866.             It must have been at
that date, or soon after, that Gill purchased it. Prob
ably the greater part of the year 1867 would be taken
up in mounting it equatoreally and in erecting an ob
servatory for it in the little garden opposite his father's
house in Skene Terrace.        There was a great deal to be
done and he has described how he did it. The principal
castings were made, turned and fitted according to his
own working drawings by a firm of shipbuilders in Aber
deen.    The declination circle, as also the driving circle
with its tangent screw and slow motion in R.A., were made
for him by Messrs. T. Cooke & Sons of York.           He himself
made the driving clock with his own hands, and it gave
him entire satisfaction.1
   He used this telescope a great deal for the measurement
of double stars, and convinced himself that he might thus
hope to measure the difference of parallax 2 of two stars
apparently close together, if one of them happened to
be comparatively near to the Solar System. This was
considered almost the most difficult feat in astronomical
observation.      Accordingly he ordered a suitable micro
meter from Steinheil of Munich, and about 1871 he was
on the point of attacking the measurement of stellar
distances, an operation requiring such perfection of instru
ment and such skill in observing as to have frightened
away nearly every astronomer at that time who thought
of attempting it.
   1
     Eventually this telescope, after purchase by Lord Lindsay,
has found a resting place in the Caiton Hill Observatory, Edin
burgh.
   *
     Parallax is an angle which can be measured, and from which
we can determine the distance of the object observed.           (See
 footnote on parallax, p. 61.)

                                                [To face page 38.
ISOBEL BLACK AND DAVID GILL, LIEUT. 1ST ABERDEENSHIRE
          RIFLE CORPS, BEFORE THEIR MARRIAGE.


 1865-72]        OWNS A     FINE TELESCOPE                    39
    There is little doubt that he might have succeeded;
 but a visit from Lord Lindsay1 changed his whole life
 at that period, and put off for many years his attempts
 to measure the distances of the fixed stars.
    Concerning this preparation for measuring the dis
 tances of fixed stars, Professor Kapteyn of Groningen,
in Holland, has written —
    It seems almost a pity that the visit from Lord Lindsay
did not come a couple of years later. It might have given
 us the spectacle — unique in the annals of science — of a
business man measuring star-parallaxes in his leisure
 hours.
    Dr.    Roberts of Lovedale,    South Africa, a zealous
astronomer, who was on intimate terms with Gill, tells
us   2 —
    It   has been my hap to have met one who assisted in
the setting up of this now historic instrument, and the
stories told of the impetuousness and inventiveness of
the young astronomer are instructive as revealing how
little folk like Gill change with the changing years. As I
heard my friend relate anecdotes of the setting up of
the twelve-inch reflector in the garden in Skene Terrace
methought he was telling me the story of the erection
of the McClean telescope, thirty years later in time.
    Another use to which he put his telescope at an early
date was photographing the moon's surface at a time when
this art was in its infancy, and gelatine dry plates were
unknown.        In this attempt he was very successful.
On May 18, 1869, he was able to take an exceptionally
good photograph of the moon. A transparency positive
from this was sent to Dr. Huggins, who was then rising
into prominence as one of the few pioneers in spectro
scopic astronomical discovery. Dr. Huggins appreciated
   1   In 1880 Lord Lindsay became the twenty-sixth Earl of
Crawford ; and by this name he was most generally known.
   * Transactions Royal Society of S. Africa, vol. v. part
                                                           3.

40                LOVE AND MARRIAGE                    [Chap. IV
this effort and, until his death, always had this photograph
in his dining-room window at Tulse Hill.
    In the winter 1870-1 Lord Lindsay saw this photo
graph, noticed its sharp definition and its consequent
scientific value.1 A question regarding it brought the
information that it was taken by a young Aberdeen watch
maker interested in astronomy, and with an instrument
practically of his own construction.          So Lord Lindsay
obtained an introduction, and the acquaintance thus
begun soon ripened into a close and abiding friendship.
    Gill's absolute capture by astronomy was completed
during the six years from 1866 to 1872, while he was still
bound to his trade in 78 Union Street, while he was
 still working as a volunteer, while he was still acting
 in loco parentis to his young brothers in Australia, and
 to his sister Maggie. In 1867 he became a member of
 the Royal Astronomical Society. He occasionally corre
 sponded with prominent astronomers, and he had much
 intercourse with Lord Lindsay, helping him in his plans
 for building an observatory.
    There are still some most important events to be
 recorded that occurred before the turning point of his
 life arrived in 1872.
     His father's health and mental powers were beginning
 to fail, and in 1869 he handed over to his son David the
 sole control of the business which had been in the family
 nearly a hundred years.       This event did not add to the
 responsibilities which had been his, in fact, for some
 years.    But it increased his private means, and enabled
  him to take the most important step of his life, concerning
  the beginnings of which a few words must now be saidU.
     David Gill had a cousin, Dr. John Ruxton, in the parish
  of Foveran, who incidentally and unconsciously, at this
  period, became the instrument for conferring upon him
    1
      This lunar photograph, now historical, came into the pos
 session of the Royal Astronomical Society of London in December
  1913-

1865-72]     MEETS HIS FUTURE WIFE                          41
the greatest boon he was ever granted, and a happiness
which shone from him ever after, and filled to the brim
that strong part of him apart from intellect, his affections
and bright outlook upon the world, his humour, his
 sympathies and devoted helpfulness.
    For, on a certain Sunday morning in August 1865,
when the two were on their way to Foveran Church, a
walk of three miles, Dr. Ruxton brought him to call
at a farm house within a stone's throw of the church,
the farm called Linhead, of Mr. John Black. And there
 he met, for the first time, Mr. Black's second daughter,
 sixteen years old, Isobel (Bella), his future wife, and they
 walked together to church.
    John Black was the last male representative, in that
 quarter, of a family long favourably known, especially
in the Formartin and Buchan districts.           Mr. Black's
 grandfather Thomas, of Wadridgemuir            (b.  1725;  d.
 1801), had five sons, of whom Alexander              (b.1767)
 carried on the farm at Linhead, Foveran, for many
years previous to his death. His son, John            (b.
                                                        1807),
 continued the occupation of that farm. In 1837 he
 married Elizabeth, daughter of Alexander Garden, of
 Millfield, and had three daughters — Anne, Isobel and
 Bessie. The second of these became the wife of David
Gill.
  Lady Gill's mother was    real farmer's wife with a
                               a a
very practical turn of mind,woman, too, of fine feeling,
while he himself took    wider outlook on the world.
                          a
From an obituary notice we learn —
   His company was much appreciated in social circles,
where his genial humour and pawky sayings made him
a great favourite. He was thoughtful of, and kind to,
his poorer neighbours.
    In
     his old age he retired to 18 Bon Accord Terrace,
Aberdeen, and died there on January 12, 1885, at the
age of seventy-seven.    He was buried in the family
burying ground at Foveran.

42               LOVE AND MARRIAGE                   [Chap.  IV
   On the occasion of this meeting David was twenty-two
 years old, and Bella was only sixteen. He saw in her a
very pretty girl with a mind to match, full of the fun and
cheeriness that never deserted her.        David's aunt, Mrs.
Mitchell, says that she was very attractive with her bright,
intellectual conversation, and that he was desperately
in love with her from the first; and adds that, while
Bella was naturally bright and clever, her mind had been
formed and educated by one of the best of those parish
schoolmasters of Scotland — before Scottish education
had been ruined by the new School Boards — who were
able to detect and foster the natural qualities of their
pupils.   So Isobel Black had come under the good in
fluence of James Anderson, parish schoolmaster of
Foveran, and was in many ways the superior of most
girls of her age.
   As to what were her first impressions of him at that
meeting; let her speak.
   He was then a fine young fellow of medium height,
slight, with a supple boyish figure, carelessly dressed,
quick of movement, with dark brown hair much dis
hevelled, from a habit which never left him, of constantly
passing his fingers through it, and a twist of humour
hovered about the mouth and also twinkled in the eyes.
In the eyes, however, there was more than humour.
There was a compelling .power, an unconscious strength
which held one, and which showed that, although un
conscious of it, he had already found himself. In fact,
it may be said that at twenty-two he was as old for his
age as he was young at seventy.         He changed so little —
                          —
in essentials not at all the eagerness, the honest frank
ness, the vitality, the quickness to perceive and to
respond, the humour, the humanity, the joyousness were
all there when we first met and walked together to
                               "
church, and when he said,        Isn't this the most glorious
                                      "
summer morning you ever saw?             just as they were at
the close of his seventieth birthday, when he said to me,
 "
   The very happiest birthday of a very happy life."
 His voice, too, never altered. Although probably to many
ears his voice was not a melodious one, being loudly

1865-72]             HIS ENGAGEMENT                          43
pitched with a very pronounced Scottish accent all his
life, yet I have no hesitation in saying, it was the com
pelling quality of his voice, with its extraordinary variety
of tone, which expressed his individuality in a way that
made the listener, without knowing why, listen to him and
remember what he said. There seemed to be no emotion
                                       "
that it could not express, and it is The sound of a voice
             "
that is still which haunts my memory every hour.
    These two loved each other the moment they met, but
they could not impress this fact upon their elders, who
would not take their assurances seriously. John Black
was charmed with the young man. His wife thought
him delightful but altogether too impetuous and im
pulsive.   Really, the parents were very sensible, though
the young people could not see it at the time.            Thus
they had few opportunities of meeting, for the relation
ship between the sexes, especially in the far north, was
hardly so free as now. But the lovers wrote many letters,
not love-letters so far as the words indicated, but long,
serious, quaint discussions on all sorts of subjects, interest
ing to both, about which one of them confessed afterwards
that she knew nothing at all. But she now says of
them —
   How earnest and sincere they were ! The beginning
of the soul's life to me. And to-day     I can say that every
ideal he then expressed he proved to be real, and every
promise he made he nobly redeemed.           He never told a
lie even to himself.
   How these letters used to amuse us in after days !
and apt quotations from them formed a joke which never
palled on either of us.
   This very fact used to be to their friends one of the
charms of being in their company. So, long after
wards, Earl Grey wrote to Lady Gill about his vivid
recollections of —
the most delightful     relationship between husband and
wife that I have ever looked upon — namely, that which
existed between you two.        I simply used to love seeing

44                LOVE AND MARRIAGE                     [Chap. IV
you two together, and to hear the mutual delightfully
 affectionate banter and chaff which made us all chuckle
contentedly.
    When young David declared to his father his resolution
to marry there was a stormy scene between these two
strong-willed men, because of his youth.1 When it was
over he sought the companionship of an old college chum.
This was Mr. W. L. Low, now Canon Low, of Largs, who
was then at Kincardine O'Neil, on Deeside.           To him he
unburdened himself, and Canon Low says that this was
the only occasion on which he ever saw young David
lose command of hand and eye through the violence of
his anger.     The incident is told in the course of a note
reminiscent of those days in which Canon Low says —
   I became acquainted with the family of which Sir
David Gill was the eldest son about 1858, at which
period I was a student at the University of Aberdeen.
At that time the younger sons were being educated at
the Parsonage, Monymusk, by the Rev. William Walker,
on whom his University afterwards conferred the degree
of LL.D., and his Church the office of Dean of the Diocese
of Aberdeen. I spent the College vacations at the same
delightful place, reading hard under the stimulus and
inspiration of Mr. Walker.         It was thus that I came
ultimately   to  know   the  whole  family of the Gills, and to
be a guest now and then in their hospitable house in
Aberdeen.
   When I was a young clergyman at Kincardine O'Neil
 (1863-70)   young David came now and then in the
summer-time to spend a week-end with me. I think we
both enjoyed these week-ends — I know I did. We both
had a great liking and admiration for Professor David
Thomson, and for the Natural Philosophy of which he
was Professor, and seldom met without one or other of
                                             "        "
us having some new story to tell of            Davie     and his
ways of dealing with unstudious students.
    One attraction for David Gill which Kincardine O'Neil
possessed was a rifle-range;        and when he came for a
        1
          David's father was 49 years old when he married.

1865-72]              HIS MARRIAGE                       45
week-end he brought his rifle. It was the muzzle-
loading Enfield rifle of those days; but we both were
capable of hitting a target with it, and did so often on
the Saturday afternoon.
    One of these afternoons has frequently come back to
my memory, because of the contrast it brought to the
placid and happy David Gill at all other times known
to me. He was like a Vesuvius in eruption, in fact, if
possible, still more vehemently and threateningly excited,
and the usual equable sequence of his thoughts was
equally disturbed.     After some time of excited utterance
the fons et origo malt became clear. Young David had,
like other young men, fallen in love with a bright young
personality that looked at him through a pair of bright
eyes matched delightfully with a rich complexion —
and old David had apparently forgotten his own youth
 and failed to approve. Young David was full of wrath
 and expressed it forcibly.     He thought his father had
 claimed the right to marry his own wife, and ought to
 allow the same right to his son.      I sympathized with
 young David ; and as time went on no one rejoiced more
 than I did as the constancy of his affection was mani
 fested, and its discernment vindicated by the object of it
 proving through a long married life an ideal wife.
    But that afternoon David Gill's mind was in a state of
 storm. After luncheon we went to the shooting-range,
 and he was as keen as ever on making bull's eyes.      But
 his attention was always flying off to his trouble; and
 when loading for the fourth time his preoccupation with
 it caused him to put the bullet in before the powder, and
 the shooting came to an end for the day.
    The two lovers both came to see that the waiting time
 had been a blessing in disguise.   Moreover, it was neces
 sary from a material point of view, for at the date, 1865,
 when they first met, David had only lately become his
  father's junior partner in the business, with a small
 enough income.
    The year after his father's retirement (when young
  David had become head of the firm), on July 7, 1870,
  shortly before his mother's death, David Gill married
  Isobel Black from her father's farm at Linhead, and

46               LOVE AND MARRIAGE                  [Chap. IV
 they started    on   their  honeymoon    for Pitlochrie,  in
Perthshire.
   Thus began that happy married life. Their first house
was in Aberdeen, two or three hundred yards away from
his father's house in Skene Terrace and from his observa
tory in the garden. His widow's words must tell the
rest.
   Twenty-six North Silver Street was a comfortable but
rather ugly little house, and the furniture, which I
thought beautiful and David did not think about at
all, atrocious. But to us both a very heaven of happiness
lay between its four walls, as it always did between every
four walls which held us two to the end of his life.
   In the first years of our married life I quickly realized
what I had had more than a glimmering of before, the
intensity of David's love of Astronomy, and it became
fully borne in upon me that my young husband's life
could never be accomplished while he remained in busi
ness.    I can see now the radiant look on his face, and the
exultation in his voice after a night spent with his tele
scope.    Often when this had been specially apparent, I
used to pray so earnestly that a door might be opened
for him to pass into the land of his desire although it
seemed then as if only a miracle could bring it to pass.
In 1872 the miracle happened, and he became Director
of Lord Lindsay's Observatory at Dun Echt. The door
was opened and he entered into his Canaan.
   David's mother died in December 1870.            Her loss
increased the value of his married life to him.   David and
Isobel Gill never had any children, but their devoted
affection, sympathy and help, each for the other, in sick
ness or health, as well as their fun and badinage, became
an object lesson to all who knew them intimately.
   David's young wife never, at any time of her life,
attempted to become an astronomer; and for this he
was thankful.      A lady once was heard, on being intro
                          "
duced to him, to say,       And how nice it must be to be
helped by your wife.        I suppose she knows all about

 1865-72]          HIS YOUNG WIFE                       47
             "                                       "
astronomy?       To which he was heard to reply,       Not
                        "
a word, thank God !        But in times of perplexity she
knew what he required, and in times of triumph she
gloried in his success.   In every moment of his relaxa
tion, and in days of absence from home, to the very end,
his intimate friends could see that his every thought was
with her.

                          CHAPTER V
                      LORD LINDSAY     (1872)
Lord Lindsay's         interest in the astronomical work of
 Gill the watchmaker soon developed into deep appre
 ciation.   Young Lord Lindsay, even at the age of twenty-
 four years, was a very remarkable as well as a very able
man, constantly experimenting upon life's experiences,
yet always critical and self-reliant.         Conscious of the
power he possessed, due to his qualities as much as to his
 wealth, he was determined to use it as seemed to him
 best.    Having decided upon a course of action, nothing
could stop him.1
    In the 'sixties of last century he established a laboratory
in Greek Street, Soho, at great expense; and this was
the first direction in which he started for the love of
science.    This was before the days of dynamos, and Lord
 Lindsay built up, on the roof, the most powerful electric
battery in the world at that time, and fitted in the
laboratory the largest electro-magnet.           A good many
years later he devoted both wealth and influence very
successfully to developing the new profession of electric
engineering.
    It is worthy of note that one of Lord Lindsay's objects
in making his great electro-magnet was his expectation
that some physiological action might be experienced by
placing the human head in a strong magnetic field.
He failed, but after many years the late Professor
   1 Afterwards,
                  Lord Lindsay was elected a Fellow of the Royal
Society, and became President of the Royal Astronomical Society.
                                 48

i872]            LORD LINDSAY'S TASTES                         49
Sylvanus Thomson, F.R.S., demonstrated the truth of
his surmise.1
    While the laboratory in Greek Street was in active
operation Lord Lindsay arrived at a very sound judg
ment about astronomy.            As Sir William Huggins has
told us, after the discovery of Neptune had put the final
seal upon the universality and completeness of the law
of gravitation in the solar system, the problems of
planetary motions seemed to be ended except for the
mathematician.        At the time referred to (about 1870)
comparatively few young men of great ability saw that
there was much to be gained for science by the devotion
of a life's work to astronomy.          Lord Lindsay's studies,
and his appreciation of Huggins's spectroscopic work,
led him to think differently.           His intimacy with the
 watchmaker astronomer confirmed his opinion, and he
 conceived the idea of inducing his father to found upon
 their estate at Dun Echt, thirteen miles from Aberdeen,
 the greatest private observatory in the world.              Lord
 Lindsay contemplated not only a large telescope,          but an
 observatory to approach or equal Greenwich in the
 accuracy of fundamental astronomy of position.
     It appears from correspondence still existing that, long
 before the time when their forces were combined in any
 agreement, Lord Lindsay and Mr. Gill were in close
 contact, the younger and more influential man con
 sulting the older one in regard to best lines of work,
  and the best instruments to lay down, in a large private
  observatory.
     It is much to the credit of Lord Lindsay, who was
  only twenty-four years of age when he made Mr. Gill's
  acquaintance (his senior by four years), that he quickly
  learnt to regard him as the most capable person he knew,
  if his interest could be secured, to organize and help to
  use his private observatory.
     1
       Roy. Soc. Proc. B., vol. Ixxxii, p. 396, and Journal of the
  Ronlgen Society No. 32, vol. viii.
        E

50                     LORD LINDSAY                     [Chap. V
   All through life it must have been a great satisfaction
to the future Earl of Crawford to know how much
astronomy is, and always will be, indebted to him for
his sound judgment at that time.
   In December 1871, one evening while Mr. and Mrs.
Gill were sitting together at home in North Silver
Street, the curate who acted as chaplain at Dun Echt
called, and, holding out a letter, said that Lord
Crawford had asked him to deliver it. Gill laid it on
the table and conversed with the chaplain till he left.
Then he opened the letter. He read it, and, with con
trolled countenance, handed it to his wife. She read,
and exclaimed,
                    "
                      How glorious !
                                         " It announced Lord
Crawford's intention to build an observatory for his son,
and invited Gill to become its first director.
   It must have been a moment of combined gratification
and perplexity.1 Here was he, a young man, in control
of a prosperous business ensuring him and his wife ample
means for life.      Here was a wife whom he loved, and
who had so lately given herself to share his fortunes.
Here was a father who would look upon his desertion of
a thriving business and an assured future as a betrayal
of his inheritance, and long-headed relations who would
condemn him as a flighty visionary who could drop the
substance for the shadow, and accept a small allowance
in exchange for a small fortune.
    On the other hand, here was an opening to the land of
 his day-dreams, an opportunity to show his worth in the
 only line of work that could give him complete satisfac
tion. Here was the means offered him to make a start
in the footsteps of men standing foremost in his
 regard, whose names are held in perpetual veneration —
 perhaps even to have his name inscribed alongside of
 theirs.
    To a man like Gill, who was humble, unselfish and
   1
     In this connexion,  read his letter to Mr. Bryan Cookson at
pp. 232, 233.

i872]              A SERIOUS DECISION                        51
strict in his sense of duty, yet full of zeal and confident of
his skill in certain directions, an immediate decision
might well seem difficult.        It all depended upon his
wife. But in her mind there was no doubt whatever.
This was the answer to her prayers.
   There was no longer any question about the answer to
Lord Crawford's invitation, though there was a great
deal of opposition on the part of the father. In the
summer of 1872, when some instruments were on the
spot, and while the foundations of their own future home
were being laid in the park, the Gills migrated to Dun
Echt, living at first in a part of the mansion house, so
long as the family were away, and afterwards occupying
a small farmhouse, Scotstown, two miles from the
observatory.
   From this moment David Gill ceased to be the business
man with a delight in astronomy as a hobby.             He was
now fairly launched in the astronomical world.            From
now onwards he is an astronomer first, and he has no
business except his hobby.          It is not often that an
astronomer has the opportunity twice in a lifetime, as
Gill had, practically to create, equip and use a magnifi
cent observatory in accordance with the highest ideals.
Dun Echt Observatory, which with instruments and
library was transferred to Blackford Hill, Edinburgh, by
the late Earl of Crawford (our Lord Lindsay), and pre
sented to the nation, and the Cape Observatory as it
now stands, are to a large extent the creations of Gill's
genius and the most substantial memorials to himself.
The large volumes, numbering about thirty, containing
results of his work—including Dun Echt publications,
Annals of the Cape Observatory, Geodetic Survey of
South Africa, and Cape meridian observations —together
with his contributions to the Royal Astronomical Society
and to astronomical literature generally,1 will remain for
   1 A
       list of these, compiled by Mr. W. H. Wesley, is appended
to this volume.

52                   LORD LINDSAY                      [Chap. V
ever a permanent record of the skill, energy, fixed purpose
and perseverance which carried this man through a life
of noble endeavour.
   His talents did not lie in the mathematical fields occupied
by Newton, Laplace, Adams, Leverrier or Newcomb ; but
the accuracy of his work recalls the memory of Bradley,
his careful selection of types of instruments recalls W.
Struve, his inventive genius and indomitable perseverance
recall Tycho Brahe, and his self-expenditure for the sake
of future generations of astronomers recalls Hipparchus.
Whether he is to be enthroned alongside of these great
astronomical observers of precision will be settled in the
future.
   It must not be assumed from what has now been said
that, at the date when Gill was appointed to Dun Echt,
Lord Lindsay had not laid out the whole scheme of the
work as a result of his own studies. We who knew Lord
Lindsay in those days remember with appreciation the
beginning he had made. He had already made up his mind
to take part in observing the Transit of Venus from the
Isle of Mauritius on December 9, 1874. There is abundant
evidence that much of what was done at Dun Echt was
based upon a careful study of W. Struve's book describing
the erection of the Pulkowa Observatory, and Gill showed
a greater interest in that observatory than almost any in
 the world. The resolution to establish a prime- vertical
transit at Dun Echt, and to use a heliometer in the
Mauritius expedition, show, further, the influence of
 Pulkowa.    Accordingly, it seemed to be interesting to
 see the copy of Struve's book which Gill must have read,
 to ask for it at the University Library in Aberdeen, and
 perhaps to find scraps of paper with Gill's notes in it.
To the writer's astonishment, he found they had no copy.
 Also, Gill never possessed a copy. It seems nearly
 certain that Gill used Lord Lindsay's copy ; and, if so, it
 becomes very possible that, when Gill was appointed,
 Lord Lindsay had already taken Struve as his model.

i872]        A PAIR OF ENTHUSIASTS                     53
   Even if the main details had already been settled by
Lord Lindsay, the rest of the work was one of co-opera
tion, though Gill alone was almost permanently on the
spot ; and the part taken in it by David Gill can be
appreciated by the letters written by him at that time, a
few of which are published in the next chapter. Part of
their agreement was that any work done by either should
be published in their joint names, and this agreement
was loyally upheld by both parties.

                         CHAPTER VI
                      DUN ECHT     (1872-4)
Building up an Observatory — Preparing for Mauritius — Gill's
     first photographic reseau — Pulkowa visit — The Hamburg
     astronomical meeting — Disastrous gale — Preparations for
     Transit of Venus complete.
            " Happy  is the man who has found his work I
              Let him ask no other blessedness."
                                                    Carlyle.
The making of an astronomer and director of an observa
tory is well told in the Dun Echt letter-book, filled
with Gill's correspondence from 1872 onwards,1 and in
the Lindsay Archives.2 Instruments and buildings for
the permanent observatory were in progress, and also
portable ones for the Mauritius expedition for the Transit
of Venus in 1874 (December 9).
   Gill's duties included design of instruments, ordering
them, urging their completion, and superintending build
ing operations. A glance at the letters shows him urging
Troughton & Simms to complete the great Transit Circle
and the portable altazimuth; T. Cooke & Sons are
asked to report progress with the prime- vertical transit,
clocks, equatoreals, and buildings. Grubb has the 15-inch
equatoreal, with spectroscope, on hand ; and is called on
for all sorts of subsidiary apparatus, for Gill found in
Howard Grubb a kindred spirit keen to advance astro
nomy. Merz of Munich is dealing with the 15-inch objec
tive prism; Repsold of Hamburg with the heliometer;
   1
     Preserved at the Royal Observatory, Edinburgh, and lent
to the writer by Professor Sampson.
   •
     Lent to the writer by the Earl of Crawford and Balcarres.
                                54

1872-4]           EXTENSIVE         WORK                  55
Ausfeld of Gotha with the Zollner photometer; Eichens
with the 16-inch siderostat; Dallmeyer with the 40-ft.
focus lens for photography;      Apps with induction coils;
Williams & Norgate or Quaritch with books. The town
of Aberdeen sends printed forms, masons, tools and
supplies. Chronometer makers are asked for the hire or
purchase of fifty chronometers. Discussions arise with
astronomers about astronomical photography and the
best modifications of the Huggins or Secchi type of
spectroscope; with Airy about improvements for Dun
Echt upon the new Greenwich standard clock; with
Auwers of Berlin and others about using the new helio-
meter for the solar parallax by observations of Mars or
of Juno.
    At the same time he superintends the building of his
own dwelling-house, as well as the fixed observatories.
It was at this time that one of Lord Crawford's men
                   "
said about Gill :    I wadna say what he may ken aboot
astronomy, but this I wull say, that he'd mak' a gran'
mason." He was certainly endowed with much adapta
bility, and would take a turn at anything that needed
doing, and do his best.
    Lord Lindsay was much away, in London or abroad,
                                   "
but always in touch with the         Director." The letters
between these two men show their loyal devotion to each
other and to their mistress, Astronomy.       Lord Lindsay,
as Chief, made every decision himself, and Gill was punc
tilious in submitting every matter to his Chief before
acting.
    On February 1, 1872, Lord Lindsay, in Rome, tells
Gill all about Secchi's object-glass prism.        On July
 15, 1872, in Munich, he says he has ordered such a prism
from Merz, and adds—
    I have very nearly settled to take a house at Heidelberg
 next year from March to June, as I want to work up some
 German and mathematics. . . .
    I went to the observatory here yesterday to see

56                         DUN ECHT                      [Chap.   VI
Lamont,1 and was talking away in French when to my
intense surprise he addressed me some question in broad
Aberdeen Scotch. He has been fifty-two years away,
and has almost forgotten English, but has not lost the
accent.
                   To Prof. Otto Struve
                                    Observatory, Dun Echt,
                                                  March   7, 1873.
     Dear Sir, — Accept my warmest thanks for your kind
 and cordial letter of the 20th Feb*. I forwarded it to
 Lord Lindsay, and we are both agreed as to the desirability
 of attending the meeting of the German Committee for
                                                       "
 the Transit of Venus, and the meeting of the             Astrono-
                         "
 mische Gesellschaft at Hamburg. . . . I will then arrange
 my visit to the Continent so as to first visit Pulkowa, and
 be in time to attend the meeting at Hamburg on my way
 home.       By this plan I hope to have the pleasure of seeing
 you at Pulkowa, and possibly also afterwards at Hamburg.
     I assure you I look forward with a prospect of great
 pleasure and advantage to my visit to your splendid
 observatory, now that your kind letter makes me so sure
  of a welcome.
     Believe me, very truly yours, .            Dav. Gill, Jr.
                        To Howard Grubb
                                The Observatory, Dun Echt,
                                                    April  2, 1873.
      My dear Grubb, —        . . . Now about     another matter
  I  wish you to be putting on paper.
      A photograph of the sun being taken, say during the
  transit of Venus —it is required to ascertain whether any
  shrinking of the film has taken place, and if any, to
  measure it.
      The method we propose to adopt is to rule a series of
  lines on a plate. Immediately after the photograph is
  taken the plate which was exposed (a dry plate) is put
  in a pressure frame and exposed behind this plate long
  enough to photograph the lines upon it on the plate which
  has before been impressed with the image of the sun.
      The plate is then developed and fixed, and we have on
   it an image of the sun and of the ruled plate.
        [Discoverer of the connexion between sun-spot periods and
      1
   terrestrial magnetism, Annalen der Physik, lxxxiv, p. 580.]

1872-4]    CONSTRUCTION         OF FIRST ROSEAU               57
    We know the true distance of the lines on the ruled
 plate.  The difference of the lines on the developed
 photograph is the contraction.        The lines being suffi
ciently close so that by interpolation we can find the
shrinkage of any point relative to any point. . . .
        Yours always,                       Dav. Gill, Jr.
   On March 20, 1873, fin a letter to Professor Henry
Draper, in America, he says—
   As the prospect of an early dissolution of Parliament
has involved Lord Lindsay in politics and he is about to
contest   the Borough of Wigan, his time, you can thus
very well understand, is much occupied.
   During 1872, Gill had correspondence with Airy about
the Transit of Venus and about Jupiter's satellites, as
well as clock construction.    On March 25, 1873, he sends
to him his own observations for latitude on eight nights
with the new altazimuth as a test of the accuracy of its
work.
   On December 19, 1872, he gives to Messrs. T. Cooke &
Son, of York, his suggestions for the control of a rotary
pendulum ; and later he discusses the same with Grubb.
   In 1873 his tour of foreign observatories and the
meeting of astronomers at Hamburg were important
events in his life.
               To James      Gill (in Australia)
                            The Observatory, Dun Echt,
                                               Nov. 27, 1873.
   My dear Jem, — It really is a very long time since          I
wrote to you.
          *       *        *        *       *       »
    I suppose my news must begin with my visit to the
Continent.    Well, I left Leith about the first August,
by steamer for Hamburg, along with the Rev. Prof.
Smith1 (called Hebrew Smith), one of the clever Smiths
of Keig. This was a Saturday, and the following Monday
afternoon we steamed into Hamburg.               On Saturday
night we parted— he for Leyden and I for Copenhagen
                 [Professor Robertson Smith.]
               1

58                         DUN ECHT                   [Chap. VI
via Kiel.      I arrived at Copenhagen the following day
about noon, saw some of the sights, visited the Observa
tory, Prof. D'Arrest and Schjellerup, had a night at the
observatory, and a walk and various glasses of beer with
the Professors, and left next day steamer and rail for
Stockholm.
    I had a Swedish bath there, a new sensation. You are
popped into a bath, hot water turned on, and you get
hotter and hotter, and an old woman scrubs you all the
time with a brush and soap, cracks your joints, and so on.
    Stockholm is a lovely place, quite intersected by arms
of the sea — and no omnibuses, all steamers —there are
about eighty of them continually plying.           I arrived at
Stockholm early in the morning and left by steamer at
midnight for St. Petersburg.        The navigation is entirely
 through   islands,  and  so you can only travel by day. We
stopped the first night at Abo, the next at Helsingfors,
and the next evening at St. Petersburg.         You pass about
5000   islands,  and   altogether the sail is a most charming
one.    We had delightful society and a most pleasant
trip. The approach to St. Petersburg is very fine.
First Cronstad, with its awful strength — the old, huge
granite forts which Charley Napier did not knock down,
which all the Russians say he might have done, and the
low, iron-plated forts, so awfully strong with 11-inch
Armstrong guns, and a narrow channel full of torpedoes,
 and such a channel that a ship must run the gauntlet of
 all the forts to get in — speak of a place impregnable.
    Then the towers of St. Petersburg come into view —long
thin minarets and splendid domes richly gilt —in fact,
 covered with gold, they say, as thick as half a sovereign.
There I found two astronomers and a carriage waiting
 me, to drive me out to Pulkowa, thirteen miles off, where
 I arrived at eleven o'clock p.m. I got a most warm
 hearted welcome from Struve, and went to bed.           I need
not tell you all the glories of    Pulkowa,   but greater kind
ness I never met in my life.       Fancy 150 people all living
 under one roof. Five families of astronomers amongst
 the number, and, of course, five married ladies, all in
 harmony together — that is a marvel, is it not? They
 have each their separate suite of five rooms and can be
 as private as they like, but they have jolly parties and
 have great fun.
    When I had been there four or five days I was taken

i872-4]     ASTRONOMISCHE           GESELLSCHAFT                59
ill — thought it was indigestion and tried castor oil — worse
and worse — so went to St. Petersburg.           Struve sent me
in with his brother-in-law, who looked me out an hotel
and a doctor. Doctor said my digestion was all right,
but that I had inflammation of the membrane of the
lung and had caught it by cold at night. Recommended
a good dinner, a bottle of good wine, and cold water
bandages.      That dinner did me a world of good.          I  had
starved myself and hoped thereby to get well, and got
worse.                         I
           After three days was able to get up and leave
with Struve for Hamburg (fifty-two hours by rail). I
 stopped to rest at Berlin for a couple of days, and got
 much better there.       Then on to Hamburg, where the
 meeting    of  the  Astronomical    Society took place.       We
 had every day grave meetings from nine to four, and then
 all off by steamer somewhere and had a jolly dinner
 together. I met and made the acquaintance of all the
 great men of the day, and enjoyed this very much.1
    On the Saturday (I reached Hamburg on the Tuesday)
 Lord Lindsay joined me, and on the Monday we were
 invited to take part in the deliberations of the German
 Committee for Transit of Venus — so down we went to
 Hanover.      There we stayed till Thursday, and then off
 to Paris, where we arrived on Friday morning. Spent
 Friday and Saturday there and then straight home to
 Aberdeen.
     Then Mr. Grubb arrived to put up our big telescope.
 Now Mr. Simms is to be here with our Transit Circle.
  We have started a time-gun. We are putting up the
  tents and houses that go to the Mauritius, and all together
  I have been busy as possible since I came. Bella sends
  the domestic news.
     I have been twice Roe shooting — five were killed on
  each occasion, but I did not get a chance.          We had the
  usual great day with the Pheasants, 270 head, 185 Pheas
  ants, 13 guns.      I have had two days at Blairythan :
  10 brace, 9 hares and some rabbits ; and 6 hares, 7 brace,
  6 rabbits.    I will write Pat next mail. My time is up.
  I am delighted to hear that things are looking better.
          Your loving brother,                           David.
     1
       The present writer has a vivid recollection of the Hamburg
  meeting.   He and Gill were already old friends with common
  tastes (both preparing for Transit of Venus expeditions). At
  Hamburg they did everything in common.            Argelander, the

60                        DUN ECHT                          [Chap.   VI
   Twenty-one      years later Gill wrote to Professor Simon
Newcomb —
                  Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                                    July 17, 1894.
   My dear Newcomb, —             ...   Do you remember our
Congress of 1873 — at Hamburg and Hanover? There I
first met you, my good friend, and Auwers and Winnecke
and a host of others who have been dear to me ever
since.    The stimulus which that meeting gave me goes
on still. What did I not learn in that short time ? What
friendships, useful and dear to me ever since ! !
   In   the autumn of 1873 the arrival of Howard Grubb
at Dun Echt to set up the great equatoreal and of Mr.
James Simms to erect the Transit Circle were memorable
events.
                       To Howard Grubb
                              The Observatory, Dun Echt,
                                                   October   7, 1873.
   My dear Grubb, — I should have written to you before
now —but the Heliometer came just after you left, and
           ******
that had to be mounted, and on the Wednesday morning
I left for some shooting and only returned yesterday.
    I had a splendid night the Sunday you left. Not very
steady for high powers, but very clear.
                                                              "
    I  sent Lord Lindsay the following telegram :                Night
and telescope splendid. Lamp damnable." 1                  I  did not
exaggerate.      The lamp made me use very unwontedly
strong language. . . . — Always yrs.,             Dav.   Gill    Jr.
doyen of the meeting, and also Struve, took them under their
charge.    The other most intimate friends were Auwers, Win
necke, Bruhns, Repsold, Peters, Rumker, Schonfeld, Tietjen,
among the foreigners ; J. C. Adams and Huggins were the British
members.      Newcomb represented the United States.         They also
met Zolner and v. Asten.     Every interval in the daily work was
occupied by the two young enthusiasts in a visit to Repsold's
works, to inspect Lord Lindsay's Heliometer.
   1
      [Expletives of this kind were occasionally used by this
essentially pious man, never for the injury of any one but only
according to old Scottish custom (so it is related by Dean Ramsay)
    " an affset
as              to the conversation."]

1872-4]           HIS FIRST HELIOMETER                              61
    From this date the heliometer became his pet instru
ment, for he was perfectly astounded at the minute
accuracy of his observations with it.
    The first intimation of an intention by Lord Lindsay
and Mr. Gill to use the heliometer at Mauritius for ob
servations of the minor planet Juno, as a second method
for getting the solar parallax, appears in the postscript of
a letter to Dr. Auwers of Berlin.
    1874. March 2. — P.S.
                                — The Heliometer observations
come out so beautifully          that     I almost think a good
determination of the parallax1 of Juno might be made
from the parallactic displacement due to the Earth's
rotation.      [The note proceeds to detail his preliminary
investigation.]
    At the    same time he writes on the same subject to
Brunnow and also to Hind.
   1
      Parallax is an angle which can be measured and from which
we may derive the distance of an object.       Standing at some fixed
spot in your garden you may see a church steeple due north.
If you move your position four yards eastward, the steeple seems
to move a little to the west of north; one degree west if it be
distant 230 yards; two degrees for 115 yards; half a degree
for 460 yards, and so on. Thus if you measure the degrees or
fraction of a degree by which the steeple's direction seems to be
displaced, you are measuring the parallax, and can tell the distance
of the steeple.    An observer on the equator is carried daily (by
the earth's rotation) 4000 miles (the earth's radius) to one side
or other of the earth's centre.  The consequent change of a planet's
direction is its parallax, and if this be measured, its distance can
be found.     An observer is carried every year (by the earth's
revolution)   93,000,000  miles (the sun's distance) to one side or
other of the sun.     The consequent change of a star's direction
is its parallax, and if this be measured, its distance can be found.
The change of direction from the direction as seen from the earth's
centre in one case, and from the sun in the other, is called the
Parallax of the planet or star. The term solar parallax is com
monly used to mean the maximum parallax of the sun at its
mean distance as observed by a man on the equator at sunrise
or sunset.     The more correct expression is the mean equatoreal
horizontal parallax of the sun.  If, in the above terrestrial example,
 we substitute 1000 miles for a yard, it can be applied to the moon
when it has an observed parallax of 1°. The man's displacement
from the earth's centre at moonrise or moonset would be about
 4000 miles (the earth's radius), and the moon's distance about
 230,000 miles.

62                        DUN ECHT                     [Chap.  VI
   On March 27, 1874, he answers inquiries from C. Niven
about spectroscopic work, and especially radial velocity
measurements of double stars.
   One of the most interesting binaries, I think, will prove
to be Procyon.        I send you a memoir which my friend
Dr. Auwers has recently sent me 1 — please return it.
The motion of Procyon in line of sight could be well
determined.
   As the time available shortened, his anxieties about
the non-delivery of instruments increased. The forces of
Nature, too, gave him the opportunity for testing his self-
reliance, and for clear thinking at the supreme moment
of apparently irrevocable disaster. To give an example
of this. We find in his correspondence the whole history
of his setting up the 40-ft. photographic lens, by Dall-
meyer, in conjunction with the 16-inch siderostat, by
Eichens, and the photographic plate-holder in the focal
plane, by Grubb, each being mounted on a separate
masonry pier, and housed.
    We find him writing in great glee at the success of his
 preliminary trials.     Then comes a letter to Lord Lindsay.2
                                          Dun Echt,
                                             February 27, 1874.
    Dear Lord Lindsay, — Yesterday after I wrote you
 the gale rose still higher — about 1.30 with a fearful gust
 it veered more to the East, caught the Siderostat House
 on the side, threw it over and smashed it to pieces
 carrying with it Siderostat, 40 ft. O.G. stand and all.
 The same gust, getting under the floor of my old observa
 tory, forced open the door, lifted off the roof, and threw
 it smashed in pieces fifty yards off.
    I got men at once, and we got the siderostat removed
 in pieces into the observatory.
     I am thankful to say the damage done is far less than
       [The celebrated computation of Procyon's orbit, round the
    1
 invisible companion indicated by Bessel, computed by Auwers,
 and discovered by Schaeberle with the Lick Telescope in 1896.]
    1
      Lent with others by the Earl of Crawford and Balcarres from
 the Archiva Lindesiana.

1872-4]                   DISASTROUS      GALE                      63
I   anticipated.     The mirror is safe, and so, I think, is the
polar     axis, but  we cannot say until we have got it in the
lathe ; we are just taking it to pieces for that purpose now.
    The sliding arm at back of mirror is bent, and that
must be renewed; the aluminium arm and the slow
motion in Decl. part are somewhat twisted, but not more,
I think, than we can manage here. Botts really has
behaved splendidly, and shown an amount of anxiety
and real usefulness and interest which, I think, we shd
not forget.
    The upright pin upon which the mirror turns is bent,
but we have looked out a piece of good steel (an old
 chisel), and Botts will make a new one.
     The closest shave, and most lucky escape, is the 40-ft.
 lens.     It was broken off from the upright which carries
it it,its cell squashed and bruised in an awful way, and yet
     seems all sound unless       gets some permanent flexure
                                   it
 from the present state of strain in which          must be.
                                                   it
    I   send   it off to Davis to-day asking him to take              it
 himself to Dallmeyer, get his report on it, and urge its
 speedy repair.
    I   propose,     you think well of it, after we have found
                    if
 out what parts of the Siderostat require to be renewed,
 to take the pieces and run up with them myself to Cooke's
  and see them put in hand.         Iwill first require to set the
 new houses going on Monday and Tuesday, and to receive
  Carpenter,1 and go on Wednesday.           Let me know       you
                                                               if
  think shd do this.
         I
     It  was just touch and go with the big dome.           Idon't
  think   I  ever spent such an anxious day. Had we not,
  just    a few days before, arranged        anew plan of fixing
  down the horizontal shutter by putting a bar across            so
                                                                 it
  [sketch and description],       would have been blown away
                                   it
  — and then nothing could have saved the dome.
     One of the plates in the roof has been slackened from
  its rivets, and       was only by keeping this slack plate
                         it
  always away from the wind that the dome was saved.
  The weathering was most effectual.
     The Heliometer room we dared not open yesterday.
  To-day we find          full of water, and the floor of the
                          it
  chronometer room in flood by water blown under the door.
                               a
         [From Greenwich Observatory, engaged as Gill's chief assistant
     1
    for Dun Echt.]

 64                      DUN ECHT                      [Chap.  VI
    The Transit Room is absolutely dry. I think you
 should order that wooden porch.
    I enclose a letter just come from Auwers which will
explain itself.
    I have a lot of things to do before post time.
    In haste, always sincerely yours,        Dav. Gill, Jr.
    These are the occasions that count in the education of
 an engineer, who only by experience can learn, if he has
the self-reliance to meet disaster. But his trouble with
the 40-foot lens was not yet over. It was returned to
him in a new cell apparently perfect, and, greatly relieved,
he writes as follows —
                 To Mr.    J.  H. Dallmeyer
                              The Observatory, Dun Echt,
                                               March 26, 1874.
   My dear Sir, — I am happy and thankful to say the
restored lens has arrived safely. May the gods reward
thee. — Yours very truly,                    Dav. Gill, Jr.
   But on April 7 he has to write a long letter to him,
beginning as follows —
   I  am sorry to tell you that what   I  feared is true.   The
40-foot lens gives a double image.       Ah
   This letter goes on to describe in detail the infinite
pains he took in locating the trouble. The siderostat
mirror was tested and found to be perfect. The fault
was definitely located in the lens.     By turning the com
ponent parts of the lens separately in their cell as well as
both together, and observing a pin-hole in a metal plate
at the focus of a collimator, and by testing for strain
by polarized light, he was eventually assured that the
trouble was wholly due to faulty curvature of the
crown-glass.
   So a new crown-glass lens had to be made; and at
last, on May 25, not so long before his date for sailing,
he was able to write to Dallmeyer —

 1872-4]           FINAL DIFFICULTIES                       65
    I have just tried the 40-ft. There is now no double
image by the test        I  described before. . . . The rays
come very sharply to focus — inch is easily detected.
                                   J
Spherical aberration must be very perfectly corrected.
    So once more, for the time, all is well, and that trouble
a  thing of the past.
   Among the minor anxieties, as the time for sailing
 approached, was the collection and rating of fifty hired
or purchased chronometers for differential longitude
determinations between Aden and Mauritius.           This and
the connexion of longitudes by telegraph between Aden
 and Greenwich were a very important part of the Transit
 of Venus work.      Finally the plans for the voyage had
 to be changed, and it was decided that Gill by himself
should carry the fifty chronometers and a portable
altazimuth direct on a P. & O. steamer to Aden and
 thence tranship to Mauritius, while Lord Lindsay with
the bulk of the instruments and assistants should travel
by the Cape in his yacht Venus, of 380 tons. The pre
parations for this responsible duty, all alone, naturally
gave Gill some anxious days.
    The collection of the chronometers, and testing their
rates, was difficult; but other delays in the last few
weeks were heartrending.        On April 11, 1874, he writes
to Mr. James Simms :        "I  am very much disappointed
that you have not answered my enquiries about the
altazimuth.     I do sincerely hope that you will at once
see to its being sent off, when I explain the very responsible
position in which I shall be placed and with only that
instrument to rely upon." And again, on April 14, he
again writes to Simms : " It will be a most serious matter
for me if you do not at least approximately fulfil yr
promise of sending the Altazimuth in a few days."
    On the same day he writes to Messrs. T. Cooke &
Sons: "Are you going to drive me mad}             You will if
 you go on in this way."
    These urgent representations succeeded.      On April 28

66                        DUN ECHT                    [Chap. VI
                     "
he tells Simms     :   The Alt. Az. came last night and seems
very fine."
   On June 2, 1874, he answers part of a letter from
Davis in these words : " A fine to say that if you don't
write me till I am not busy our correspondence is likely
to come to an untimely death."
   To the same correspondent he is more explicit on
June 7.
   Just   a word now about my being busy.        You   seem to
think it strange my being so. Tupman 1 not so.
   1. Capt. Tupman had ever so many trained assistants.
I had next to none.
   2. Capt. Tupman was in the midst of instrument
makers. I 500 miles away from them.
   3. Capt. Tupman had all, or nearly all, his instruments
a year ago.      I had not half of ours a month ago.
   4.   Captain  Tupman had no chronometer expedition to
arrange and no Heliometer work to labour at. I had all
his different observatories as well, and to determine all
the constants of the instruments with my own hands.
   5. Capt. Tupman had all forms of observation and
computing done for him. I had to do them all myself.
   6. Capt. Tupman had nothing to do but Transit of
Venus work, I the regular work and superintendence of
much going on here besides.         Tupman had no chrono
graph experiments, which occupied a fortnight of my
critical time.
    I think you will find my work has been Tupman's x 3,
not -r 3-
   In   the end it was a satisfaction to find that he could
leave Dun Echt, on his way to Mauritius, conscious that
his efforts had been successful and that every instrument
was ready. He was able to witness the transport of his
portable astronomical village by steam traction engine
into Aberdeen for shipment.
   1
      [Captain (now Colonel) Tupman, R.M.A., was taking charge,
at Greenwich Observatory, of all preparations for all the five
British Expeditions.]

                         CHAPTER VII
             THE MAURITIUS EXPEDITION      (1874-5)
The outward voyage —Night fishing — Lord Lindsay's arrival —
      Return to Egypt, and surveying operations — Khedive's
      offer — Good-bye to Dun Echt.
The Archiva Lindesiana contains the         MS. of a lecture
delivered to a select circle by David        Gill at Aberdeen
describing his voyage to Mauritius with     the chronometers,
while Lord Lindsay, with assistants         and instruments,
in his sailing yacht, Venus, was going round the Cape.
The'MS. gives the reader some faint notion of his diffi
culties when making observations of stars for time in
the short stoppages he had at Suez and Aden.         Still more
graphic are the anxieties he experienced in dealing with
 Arab boatmen when transporting his valuable and easily
 deranged chronometers.       And the labour of comparing
 fifty chronometers twice a day in the course of a severe
 attack of sea-sickness rouses our compassion.
    Having transported his fifty chronometers from Liver
 pool, where they had been rated, to Greenwich, he started
 from that observatory alone, in charge of them on two
 cabs, leaving Airy and his assistants bewildered at his
 temerity.
     He shipped them at Southampton on June 18, 1874,
 in specially fitted cabins, with entire success.   He reached
 St. Denis in Mauritius on August 3. Here he was wel
 comed by Mr. Meldrum, and made all his preparations
 to set up the instruments when they should arrive with
 the yacht, which did not happen until the beginning of
 November, owing to bad weather. He was able to give
 assistance to Transit of Venus observers from England,
                                67

68       THE MAURITIUS EXPEDITION                  [Chap.   VII
France, Holland and Germany who were to be stationed
at other islands. In this way he met Captain Wharton,
commanding H.M.S. Shearwater, who was conveying the
British observer, Mr. Neate, R.N.,1 to Rodriguez. Captain
Wharton afterwards became Hydrographer to the navy
and so became very intimate with Gill, in whose house
at the Cape Observatory he died in 1905.
   The astronomical results of this expedition have been
published elsewhere and need not be described here in
detail.   But the MS. contains some account of the
manner in which the spare time was spent while waiting
for Lord Lindsay's arrival.
   The spot chosen for the observing station, on climatic
grounds, was on a part of the island which had been
brought into cultivation, with astonishing results, by a
delightful and remarkable Frenchman, M. de Chazal.
This patriarch of the settlement was pleased to do all he
could for the astronomers. Gill was delighted to see the
effects of his energy, perseverance and taste upon a bleak
volcanic area. M. de Chazal with his sons, daughters,
and their children, all lived and worked together at St.
Antomi. When Gill arrived, after a little talk the family
sat down thirty to breakfast.     Several sites were offered ;
               "          "
and when         Belmont     was chosen carpenters were
soon at work on the house, and masons were levelling
and building pillars for instruments.         Every kind of
amusement was provided when the yacht failed to
appear.    A particularly graphic account of a night's
fishing on the coral is full of life.
   Having accepted an invitation from Rudolph de
Chazal to spear fish on the reefs round Amber Island, we
set off one evening about five o'clock.   The carriage took
us to the beach, and the boat (named after the Prince
who used    it)the Prince Alfred took us to the Island.
Here we put on old clothes, and sailed for the reef about
a mile out to sea. The flambeaux (great bundles of
small pitchy sticks bound together) are lit and we step
        1
           Commander Neate, R.N., died June 13, 1916.

  1874-5]     SEA-FISHING AT MAURITIUS                      69
 out upon the reef up to the knees in water. Here we
 separate into parties of two or three, each party being
 accompanied by a black fellow carrying a lighted flambeau
 over his shoulder. It was already quite dark. Each
 flambeau lighted up clearly a little space around, showing
 the dark waves breaking white on the reefs, becoming still
 and green as they pass inside the basin. In the distance
 each party in its illuminated circle is seen clear and
 distinct passing off to its fishing ground, or a sportsman
 stopped over a pool with uplifted spear ready to strike.
    But this strange effect of light is not so strange as the
 scene under foot.     The reef is like a road, broken up by
 deep pools   and fissures and flooded with water — but what
 a road ! So beautiful ! so variegated ! Coral every
 shape and colour, wonderful animals, bunches of sea
 weed — all the wonders of tropical submarine life — new
 to me and beautiful.
    Behind is Amber Island, only visible by the huge
 wood fire on which dinner is being cooked, and the other
 fishing parties getting smaller and smaller in the distance.
    Now for our own proper work, we come to a hole and
 I see only a wonderful natural" aquarium — " See," says
 Rudolph, but I see nothing.          Ah, he is gone," and I
 was too late, again and again too late, and then at the
 next hole I thought I saw a curious long blue stone, it
 moves, down plunges the spear and a struggling at the
 end told I had struck.
                           "
                             Keep him down, keep him down
                                       "     "
 to the bottom," cried Rudolph — now — and up with
 the spear came a large blue fish with a bill like a parrot —
 and called the parrot fish. The Malabari took him off
 and put him in a bag and we passed on.
    This fish proved to be the largest we got that night, but
we had a wonderful collection of fishes gold and silver,
red and blue and grey, and wonderful appetites for the
excellent dinner we found waiting us on Amber Island.
    The September mail brought the Aberdeen carpenter
with the houses for which there was no room on the
yacht. The anxiety caused by the non-appearance of
Lord Lindsay's yacht became great, and it was not until
November 1 that a welcome messenger arrived to say
that Lord Lindsay and Dr. Copeland had left the yacht
in a calm with the steam launch, and were at the Hotel
de l'Europe in Port Louis.

7o         THE MAURITIUS EXPEDITION                [Chap. VII
   Among the caricatures of eminent men that used to
appear in Vanity Fair, by Spy (Leslie Ward), none was
truer to life than that of Lord Lindsay, in May 1878.
There are still a good many people who remember the
young Lord Lindsay of those days, his geniality, his
remarkable personality and his mannerisms, as well as
the fierce expression he could assume on occasion, with
his red hair and beard and his blue spectacles, and the
temptation is irresistible, to insert here (literatim) the
manner of his unannounced arrival, as given in the local
paper.
                          Lord Lindsay
   Drôle d'histoire, tout de même, que celle que je vais
vous raconter.
   Elle a le privilège d'être vraie, c'est ce qui fait qu'elle
sera encore plus difficile à avaler.
   Donc la voici :
   Le noble Lord —disons-le noble, puisqu'il l'est de par
ses titres, — débarquait il y a quelques jours parmi nous.
   A peine arrivé, la faim le prend, et il se fait conduire
à un hôtel quelconque.
   Il était vêtu comme son maître d'équipage, c'est à
dire qu'en le voyant on n'aurait pu savoir à qui on
pouvait avoir l'avantage de parler.
   Milord, donc, se rend à l'hôtel, et le dialogue suivant
s'engage entre lui et le restaurateur.
   — Bonjour monsieur.
   —   Bonjour.
   —   Je  voudrais bien prendre quelque chose.
   —    Que désirez vous ?
   —   Avez- vous du sherry ?
   —   Oui.
   Et   l'hôtelier le regarde, avec l'air de se demander : —
" mais                    "
          peut-il payer?
    Le costume du visiteur répondait négativement à
cette importante question.
   — Servez moi, dit milord.
    Et comme l'hôtelier se grattait la tête pour savoir s'il
 fallait obéir, ou non :
   — " Qu'est ce que vous avez ici de bon à manger? "
   — J'ai du rostbeef. . . .
    — Nô!

LORD    LINDSAY, M.P., F.R.S., P.R.A.S.
 Reproduced by permission  from "Vanity Fair"
                 May,  1878


  1874-5]               A HUMOROUS DIALOGUE                              71
    —  J'ai      du plumpudding.         . . .
    —  No      ! !
    —  J'ai     du jambon. . . .
    —  Nô      ! ! !     Donne-moi des sandwitches.
    Tutoyé, l'hôtelier se cabre.
    — Ah ! mais permettez. . . .
    — Assez cause. Servez moi !
    Enfin on le sert avec une perplexité croissante. Milord
 boit, mange, se rince la bouche, jette sa serviette, et se lève.
    — Pouvez- vous me donner une chambre ? dit-il.
    — L hôtelier qui tremble pour sa consommation,
 répond aussitôt :
    — Ça dépend . . . nous verrons ça tout à l'heure.
    — Ah ! . . . bien ! dit milord.
    Et mâchant son cure-dents, il s'éloigne dans la direction
 de la porte d'entrée.
    En deux bonds, l'hôtelier franchit le perron, et le
 rejoint.
    Milord se retourne et le toise.
    — Comment appelez- vous ce monument ? dit-il, en
 désignant le palais de justice.
    — Ça, c'est la Cour ! dit l'autre visiblement agacé.
   — Et     cela      ?
   — Ça, c'est la cathédrale.
   — Ah ! très bien ! très bien.               Joli !  Ah  ! bien joli . . .
 bonjour   !
   L'hôtelier qui          se   croit joué, se plante héroïquement
devant lui       :
   — Mais           les   consommations         se   payent   comptant     !
s'écria-t-il.
   — Ah      !     dit milord qui ne comprend rien à son air, —
très bien     !
   Et tirant         des souverains de sa poche il en donne un à
l'hôtelier ébahi.
   — Attendez que je vous rende le change ! dit ce dernier
subitement calmé.
   — Nô     !    gardez.
   — Mais si fait !
   — Nô ! je vous dis gardez.
   — Mais, monsieur, je n'ai               pas besoin    de recevoir un
cadeau de vous.
   — Nô ! gardez.            . .   .
   — Mais monsieur.              .   . .
   MlLORD S'ÉLOIGNE.

72         THE MAURITIUS EXPEDITION                    [Chap. VII
   — Au fait, continue l'hôtelier,         comme    vous m'avez
demande une chambre, ca se retrouvera entre nous.
 Sous quel nom f aut-il vous inscrire ?
    Milord se detourne alors, et avec le flegme britannique :
   — Lord Lindsay      !   dit-il.
   — Lord      Lindsay   !  . .  .  Milord  ! pardon ! pardon
Milord ! ! ! s'ecrie le malheureux hotelier. Je ne savais
pas ! pardonnez moi.
    — Ouais ! tres bien . . . arrangez la chambre.
    Et il sortait les deux mains dans les poches, tandis que
l'hotelier saluait a reculons.
    The valuable     work accomplished by Lord Lindsay's
 Mauritius expedition is accessible to all astronomers
 in the Dun Echt publications.        Clouds interfered with the
critical observation to get the time of apparent internal
contact of the edges of Venus and the sun. But they got
photographs and heliometer measures during the transit
of Venus, as a black spot, over the sun's surface.
    It is a lamentable fact that, at least in Gill's
opinion, the net result of all the costly private and
national transit of Venus expeditions amounts to this :
 that the time of true contact cannot be fixed with cer
tainty, and that this method for determining the sun's
distance cannot be relied upon, and is useful only as a
check.
    Lord Lindsay and Gill had, however, another string
 to their bow. The heliometer was used for measuring
the distance of the minor planet Juno, then in opposition.
This result gave for the sun's distance a value which we
now know to be close to the truth. But the work was
not done under the best conditions, owing to the delay in
the yacht's arrival until after the planet had passed the
most favourable position.           This experience neverthe
less convinced Gill that the best method for getting the
sun's distance would be found in heliometer observations
of a minor planet in opposition.1
   1 See the extremely able articles on Solar Parallax by D. Gill,
in The Observatory for 1878.

 1874-5]          HOMEWARD         BOUND                     73
    The  chronometric longitude determinations were of
 great value to astronomy and geography.             But the
 grandest result for astronomy       of this expedition was
that it made a man. Gill's reputation as a most ac
 curate observer and organizer was established; he had
gained confidence in himself to carry out any such work,
however difficult, that he might undertake; and he had
proved the value of the heliometer by the accuracy and
consistency of his own observations.
    On January 8, 1875, Gill sailed from Mauritius
with chronometers for the final work of connecting the
longitudes of Belmont in Mauritius with (1) the Isle of
 Reunion, (2) The Seychelles,      (3) Aden, (4) Suez, (5)
Alexandria, (6) Malta, (7) Berlin.      He arrived at Aden
 on January 20; and some interesting facts are given in
a letter to Lord Lindsay's mother at Florence.
                   To Lady Crawford
                                               Aden,
                                           January 23, 1875.
    Dear Lady Crawford, — I         am very glad to hear
that my letters have interested you, and still more so
that you are pleased with the arrangements I made at
Mauritius. . . . We have had so much to do in Mauritius,
owing to the late arrival of the Yacht, that we have been
all overworked, and a few days before I left, Lord
Lindsay was quite knocked up. . . . The Aden Mauritius
steamers as you know are not very good, and there was
a very fine steamer coming which should sail from Port
Louis for Ceylon. Lord Lindsay was to avail himself
of this. ...  To complicate matters Dr. Copeland became
ill and we lost his assistance for ten days. But we were
fortunately favoured with very clear nights, and all this
great mass of work has been done between Xmas Day
and the 6th Jan*, and I believe thoroughly well done. . . .
   At Reunion I went ashore at once and got Dr. Oude-
mans to come on board, bringing his chronometers with
him. Their error was determined the previous night,
and so the comparison we then made was the means of
connecting Reunion in the circle of longitudes of which
Belmont is the centre. . . .

74        THE MAURITIUS EXPEDITION                 [Chap. VII
   I was very anxious to determine the longitude of Mahi,
the capital of the Seychelles,    ...  as Captain Wharton
is making   it a  point from  which to determine the longi
tudes in his survey of the coast of Africa near Zanzibar.
   I had to land an instrument on arrival and determine
time by sun or stars or whatever I could get, — but because
of measles at Bomba [?] we were put in quarantine.          I
then applied to the Captain to be allowed to land on the
Quarantine Island. . . . The little Captain, however,
was in such a rage at being put in quarantine that he would
not allow me to land, or what was the same thing would
not give me a boat to go, and I was in despair when to
my great delight I heard the cheerful voice of my friend
Captain Wharton — "Hullo Gill, are you there?" — He
had been detained on some surveys of reefs on his way
to Seychelles, and hearing we would be put in Quarantine
had turned out all his officers during the day to observe
equal altitudes of the Sun for time, and had come off
himself to get one of Lord Lindsay's chronometers for
comparison with his own.
   He had previously obtained permission from the
health officer to be allowed to receive two chronometers,
"
  if they were previously disinfected." "I applied to the
Captain to send the chronometers. — What ! chrono
meters ! send chronometers ! Where ?         Who ?    What ?
                                           "
Have I not told you you cannot go ?
   "
   "
     I don't wish to go— only to send chronometers."
     But you cannot — impossible — quite impossible."
   "
     Will you not assist me? "
   " No, I shall not.                    "
                         Why should I ?
   " In the cause of science."
   "
     I know nothing of science, only money."
   (I must tell you the Captain always when excited takes
every astronomer for a Prussian because he has four
Prussian astronomers on board and it is almost too much
for him.)
   " But it is of
                   importance."
   "
     Important or not it is nothing to me. They have
put me in quarantine, and am I to break quarantine for
your sake? —you whom I carry only because you pay."
   "                        "
     What do you mean ?
   " Ah,
   " Well,pardon,
                    I thought of these Prussians."
            Captain Wharton is there and has obtained
permission to take two chronometers from the ship."

 i874-5]          ARRIVAL IN EGYPT                          75
    "                                                "
       Eh — what — obtained permission, you say ?
    "
       Yes."
    "
       To land chronometers ! They make exceptions for
him and they will not allow me to land anything.          Very
good, I will write to the Governor."
    " Yes, I think
                    you are quite right. You should allow
me to land the chronometers, and then you will have
good cause of complaint."
    "
       Exactly."
    So the chronometers having been duly rubbed with
vinegar were put into a boat and dropped astern when
Captain Wharton received them, and the little Captain
retired to his cabin where I saw him for a long time
furiously composing letters to the Governor. . . .
    On passing through Egypt [on the way out] I happened
to meet one of the surveyors of Egypt — he told me of
the commencement of a survey of the country. . . .
The consequence was first a private letter asking if I
would undertake to measure a base line in Egypt. I
asked Lord Lindsay's consent, and he has kindly given
it.   ...  I have on arrival here an official letter from the
Minister of Public Works, desiring me to convey the
thanks of the Government to Lord Lindsay.         ...   I hope
to see Lord Lindsay in Egypt on his way home.             Mrs.
Gill is at Cannes. . . .
    With kind regards to Lord Crawford and all the family,
I remain. — Sincerely yours,               Dav. Gill, Jr.
    Gill telegraphed from Aden to his wife at Cannes
to join him in Alexandria.          Having completed his
observations at Aden and Suez he reached Alexandria
and mounted his altazimuth on the roof of the hotel
where he and his wife lived. Mr. Gibbs of the Eastern
Telegraph Company assisted them. Then they went
to Cairo and became the guests of the Khedive Ismail.
Finally, they took up their abode in an untenanted house
which the Khedive furnished for them, at the Pyramids —
what has since become the Mena Hotel.             Among the
scientific friends who visited them were Dr. Dollen of
Pulkowa, Professor and Mrs. Watson of Ann Arbor,
U.S.A., and Colonel Sir Charles Moore Watson, R.E.,

 76        THE MAURITIUS EXPEDITION                   [Chap. VII
 K.C.M.G.,    C.B., the friend and lieutenant of General
 Gordon.     Without Professor Watson's help he could
 hardly have succeeded in measuring the base, so un
 trustworthy did he find his Arab engineer assistants.
 The work was satisfactorily done, and the two astro
 nomers then set to work on an accurate measurement
 of the pyramid base, clearing out all the sand from the
 corner-stones.
    Mr. Flinders Petrie, in speaking of measurements at the
 Pyramids, tell us 1 —
    Mr. Gill — now Astronomer Royal at the Cape — when
 engaged in Egypt in the Transit Expedition of 1874,
made the next step, by beginning a survey of the Great
 Pyramid base, in true geodetic style. This far surpassed
all previous work in its accuracy, and was a noble result
of the three days' labour that he and Professor Watson
 were able to spare for it.   When I was engaged in reducing
 the triangulation for    Mr.  Gill in 1879, he impressed on
me the need of completing it if I could, by continuing it
round the whole pyramid, as two of the corners were
only just reached by it without any check.
    Unfortunately, in the course of Egypt's troubles later
on, the MSS. relating to the base line, which were in
General Stone's care at Cairo, seem to have got lost;
Major Lyons, R.E., F.R.S.,too, informs us that the Arabs
at Gizeh destroyed all the landmarks left by Gill and
chipped out the engraved metal plates which marked the
extremities of the measured base.
    Lord Lindsay paid the Gills a visit on his way through
to his parents at Florence, and after the work was
finished further matters of scientific interest arose at the
initiative of General Stone and the Khedive.             Before
speaking of them it may be right to insert here a summary
of what he accomplished during his residence with his
wife among the Arabs at Gizeh. This is compactly put,
   1
     Pyramids and Temples of Gizeh, 1883, p. 2. See also further
details about this survey at pp. 205-7 °f the same book by Mr.
Flinders Petrie.

 1874-5]       WORK AT THE PYRAMIDS                          77
in a final letter to Lord Lindsay before embarking at
 Suez for England.
          ******
              To Lord Lindsay     (at Florence)
                                      Cairo, May   14, 1875.
   Dear Lord Lindsay, —
   I  have not much time to write for        I only finished
work late last night and have everything to prepare to
start for Suez to-morrow with a special train to catch the
steamer.
   I defer a full account of the work done till we meet,
but I have measured a very very accurate kilometre,
established the latitude and longitude of the Great
Pyramid, and measured the sides and height of the Great
Pyramid to ± 1 millim., and their exact azimuths by a
triangulation.
   Dollen and I began a determination of the deviation
of the plumb line by the Great Pyramid, but poor
Dollen was seized with a return of haemmorhage of the
lung and compelled to go, with his instrument, before we
could get any result.     (The true displacement is about
2".)   Professor  Watson   of Ann Arbor has been here for
the last fortnight and has helped me very much. . . .
         To Professor Newcomb       (at Washington)
                             Alexandria, February 21, 1875.
   My dear Newcomb, — I am here in Egypt on my way
home from Mauritius, and among my letters find one
from Grubb of Dublin which is the immediate cause of
my writing to you.
   He tells me that you have been making the round of
the European optical workshops in quest of a maker
for the great telescope of the new Californian observatory.
He asks me to write you and tell you my opinion of
himself as a mechanic and an optician. . . .
   The Transit is over. We lost first contact at Mauritius
but got a very fine lot of photographs, some good Helio-
meter measures and some double image measures of
Venus' diameter.

78       THE MAURITIUS EXPEDITION                 [Chap. VII
   In  November I got a fine set of determinations of the
diurnal parallax of Juno which I believe will give a very
excellent result of the Solar Parallax.
      Always sincerely yrs.,              Dav.  Gill, Jr.
   While Gill was carrying on his measurements at or
near Cairo, from February to May 15, General Stone,
who was the Khedive's adviser, recommended an accurate
survey of Egypt; and the Khedive invited Gill to
carry it out in one or other of two ways. (1) To sever
the connexion with Lord Lindsay and to enter the
Khedive's service as Director of Surveys, (2) To direct
the survey from Dun Echt, paying a visit every year to
Egypt.
   At this time Lord Lindsay, in poor health, was resting
with his father and mother at the Villa Palmieri in
Florence. Gill sent on to him the proposals of the
Khedive, asking if there would be any objection to his
going to Egypt every year for a couple of months.
   Lord Lindsay clearly saw that this would not work,
but both he and Lord Crawford wrote on March 19
earnestly supporting the proposal that Gill should take
up permanently the influential and honourable appoint
ment offered to him. They thought not only that the
position would be the best possible opening for him, to
a far greater career than he could hope for as Lord
Lindsay's assistant, but also after having worked so well
together in completing the great Transit of Venus Ex
pedition, this would be a suitable occasion for a change ;
and, if Lord Lindsay and Lord Crawford were now to
object to losing his assistance, they felt that they would
be incurring an obligation, in honour if not in law,
to continue the existing relationship indefinitely, even
should they themselves wish at any future time to alter
the mode of carrying on the observatory.
   Gill saw the importance of the views put before

1874-5]        KHEDIVE'S OFFER TO GILL                     79
him, both by Lord Lindsay and Lord Crawford, and
eventually wrote to say that, if the Khedive would show
good cause, he would accept the appointment.              On
May 14, however, a letter to Lord Lindsay shows that
the Khedive had ended the matter differently.          There
already existed in Cairo an Astronomer and also a Pro
fessor of Geodesy.      These Egyptians became alarmed at
the proposals made to Gill, and
moved heaven and earth to persuade the Viceroy that the
existing maps were for the present good enough, that
Egypt should be surveyed by Egyptians not by foreigners,
 etc., etc., and finally upset all General Stone's plans.
    So it fell out that it was the Khedive, in fact, who first
 put it into the heads of Lord Crawford, Lord Lindsay
 and Mr. Gill, that their existing relationship might not
 necessarily be permanent.        There was indeed already
 a vast change in their relative positions.      Gill was no
 longer the young amateur hoping for some opportunity
 to leave a commercial career for astronomy.          He had
 already become an astronomical observer and organizer,
 with a scientific reputation, living in close intimacy and
 continuous correspondence with many of the greatest
 living astronomers. Struve and Dollen, Foerster, Vogel
 and Auwers, Backhuyzen and Oudemans were in frequent
 correspondence with him, as well as Newcomb, Airy,
 Adams,     Stokes, Huggins, and many others. The pro
 posals for the Mauritius expedition, and for getting the
 sun's distance from observations on Juno by heliometer —
 these had been published as common property with Lord
  Lindsay.     But it was Gill himself who, by the results
  already attained, had proved himself an incomparable
  observer, with an instinct in the use of instruments and
  a perfect genius for the combining of check observations
  for the elimination of systematic error. These qualities
  were known to his correspondents and had now raised
  him to a high rank among practical astronomers.

80        THE MAURITIUS EXPEDITION                [Chap. VII
   He may not himself have been fully conscious of all
this, but he was very conscious of the extent to which
any advance he had made was due to his position as
Lord Lindsay's assistant.
   On his return to Dun Echt the little house built for
him beside the observatory often received distinguished
visitors.  Lady Crawford (Lord Lindsay's mother), how
ever, when the house was built (to establish a Director
or assistant on a very modest salary to carry on observa
tions under Lord Lindsay's direction) had never intended
that such an assistant should be a man of great reputation,
receiving visitors whose equipages would have to be put
up in her stables.   She had never thought that in build
ing the observatory house, they were establishing a
gentleman's villa in the very middle of their park.
   Her view was perhaps a not unnatural one, and
accordingly Lady Crawford resolved to revert to her
original intentions, and to cut down the amenities which
had arisen round the residence, and also to give a part of
the Gills' house to Mr. Carpenter, Gill's assistant, and
his wife.
   However sound this judgment may have been as to
the position to be occupied by the Director of Lord
Lindsay's Observatory, it could not be very satisfactory
either to Lord Lindsay or to Mr. Gill. The position, in
fact, became intolerable.
   Meanwhile, it was becoming very difficult for Gill to
do no more than act solely in carrying out the orders of
his chief, and for Lord Lindsay to feel justified in limit
ing Gill's energies to his own conceptions about the work
of his observatory.    Then the situation created by Lady
Crawford's objections was well considered and the two
friends decided to part, with undiminished friendship
and esteem on both sides.
   There never had been, in the history of astronomy, a
more successful partnership, or one so entirely devoid
of friction ; or one in which each party was so absolutely

 1874-5]    THE PARTNERSHIP DISSOLVED                     81
 loyal to the other, with an ever-growing affectionate
 friendship.   And Gill never in his life forgot his debt to
 Lord Lindsay for rescuing him from a tradesman's career.
 But after the most careful consideration they agreed it
 was best that Lord Crawford should determine the agree
 ment of December 1871, by giving notice of six months
 and paying the sum stipulated in their original bond.
 This was in November 1875, but Gill carried on the
 work beyond the six months.
    Had this most wise decision been avoided it would have
 become inevitable either that Lord Lindsay should lose
 control of his own observatory, or that Gill would be
 unable to make the most of such talents as he possessed
 for the advancement of astronomy.
    The writer was fortunate enough to visit the happy
home of the Gills at Dun Echt, had the great pleasure of
Lord Lindsay's acquaintance, learnt from each of them
the respect and affection in which he held the other;
has read all the existing letters between them, and has
been told by Gill himself of the way in which their
partnership came to an end; and he would like to
express    his admiration of the unselfish loyalty and
sympathy of each of these men to the other not only
during the years while they worked together, but through
out life. At the same time he has now the opportunity
of testifying to the debt that astronomy owes to Lord
Lindsay for his prophetic insight when he transformed
David Gill from a watchmaker into an astronomer.
   When James Ludovic Lindsay, the twenty-sixth Earl
of Crawford, and Earl of Balcarres, died on January 31,
1913, Sir David Gill wrote an excellent biography of his
old chief, which appeared in Nature on February 13, in
which, after enumerating his scientific works, he says —
   He had an inborn genius for mechanics and engineering,
a love of science in every form, and a passion for travel ;
and inherited from his father the love of all things rare
     G

82       THE MAURITIUS EXPEDITION                  [Chap. VII
and beautiful, together with the instinct of the antiquarian,
the bibliophile and the collector.        His generous and
sympathetic    nature endeared   him   to  all who were his
fellow workers, and more than one man has to thank him
for scientific opportunity that would have otherwise have
been denied him.

                       CHAPTER        VIII
       INTERREGNUM — MARS EXPEDITION TO ASCENSION
                            (1876-8)
 Last days at Dun Echt — Sir George Airy —Ascension expedition —
      A catastrophe —Anxieties — Success — Mars Bay —Mrs. Gill.
 The last year of the Gills'  residence at  Dun Echt (1875-6)
 was a year of great happiness     in many ways.     The astro
 nomical work was largely computation of results obtained
 at Mauritius, and further checking and measuring the
 minute instrumental errors which inevitably attend the
 finest constructions by human hands.          Outside of this
 work there was much to brighten Gill's life. The con
siderable reputation he had made as an observer, and
 as a planner of new and more accurate methods for
attacking astronomical problems, had brought him into
consultation with some of the greatest intellects of the
day. His experiences abroad had widened his outlook
beyond the boundaries of his own parish. At the same
time his personal friends in Scotland, while recognizing
the success which had attended his perseverance and
industry, were delighted to find that there was no
change in the genial cordiality of his interest in the
occupations of his friends. Thus his artistic friends, in
sculpture, painting and music, rallied to his house for
those intellectual and aesthetic symposiums for which his
home was then and afterwards famous. John Brodie,
Sir George Reid and his brother Archie, Robertson Smith
and many others, found their way out to the observatory
house.
                                83

84                    INTERREGNUM                      [Chap. VIII
   Sir George Reid's letters to him at this time were nearly
always illustrated by quaint designs, and show his great
appreciation    equally  of the astronomer and the man.
To Gill he exposed a humorous side of his nature almost
unknown to his other associates.         Those who have read
Mr. John Kerr's charming Memories Grave and Gay will
recall his notes in Chapter XIX of the little club of artists
and literati, including David Gill, who used to meet at
this time, as a club, in the old manse of Deer.
   It was at this time, too, that his brother Jem came
home from Australia for a holiday.            This was the last
time that these two were to meet in this world; and it
remained a constant pleasure to both of them, there
after, to recall the happy days they spent together in their
old occupations of rifle-shooting and cup-hunting at the
various wapinschaws; besides the more trivial amuse
ments of social parties and dancing, in which the two
brothers took a great delight.
   In the early summer of 1876 Sir George Airy paid one
of his much enjoyed visits with his daughters to Scotland,
this time to the far north and the Orkneys. In his auto
biography reference is made to the visit he then paid
to Mr. Webster, M.P. for Aberdeen.1            Here once more
he met David Gill and learnt more about his work and
occupations.     At the date referred to, Airy was recog
nized, even by those Directors of Observatories who had
differences with him, as occupying unchallenged the very
first place in the world as Astronomer and Director of a
National Observatory.        Adams and others might have
attained his level in astronomical research.       Otto Struve's
method for conducting an observatory might be preferred
by some to his own. But the fact remained that he was
the first man of the day in the astronomical world.           His
mathematical methods were looked upon by some of the
Cambridge pioneers as clumsy, but they were infallible
so far as they went.       The orderly habit of mind which
            1
              Sir G. B. Airy's Autobiography,  p. 318.

1876-8]           GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY                            85
was based on geometry governed the methods and system
in astronomical reductions with which his name is always
associated, as well as the strictness of rules in the con
duct of his observatory about which some of his foreign
visitors told amusing tales. The same geometrically
exact turn of mind governed his designs for astronomical
instruments.       He was a born engineer, and it was he who
first took the construction of equatoreal and transit-circle
mountings out of the hands of the optician and maker of
surveying instruments, and entrusted them to the great
 firms of mechanical engineers.           Add to this the strict
 sense of duty towards his science, his country, and the
 Admiralty in whose employment he was, and we have a
 fair notion of this stern, unbending Astronomer Royal,
 who for so many years maintained the reputation of
 Greenwich Observatory as the most fertile home of
 accurate astronomy of position in existence.
     It must not be forgotten, however, that Sir George
 Biddell Airy had a very human side. His great reserve
 could not conceal from his intimates the depth of his
 domestic affections. Although to the scientific world
 his sterner qualities alone were apparent, his intimate
 friends derived infinite pleasure from his genial interest
 in themselves, his love of nature, of historical enquiries,
 of humorous anecdote, of literature and of music.1
     David Gill possessed a very strong bump of veneration,
  and was much influenced by the character of the Astro
  nomer Royal. Airy, on his part, had followed Gill's
  progress with great attention, and had the very highest
  opinion of his capabilities as an observer.
     During his visit to Mr. Webster in Aberdeen, the Gills
 and Airys were lunching with a dear old friend of Gill's,
  Mr. John F. White, of Bridge of Don, and Airy asked
     1
       One of the writer's most distinct recollections of visits by
  the  Airy family to his father at Pitlochrie was the Irish devilry
  with which the Astronomer Royal joined in when his daughter
            " Shan
  sang the          Van Vocht."

  86                   INTERREGNUM                [Chap. VIII
  Mrs. Gill about their departure from Dun Echt, and
 what work her husband would be engaged upon. She
 spoke of the computations he had to make in connection
 with the solar parallax and his observations on the minor
                                        " We cannot
 planet Juno. To this Airy replied,                    afford
 to allow your husband to be without a telescope."
     Thus it happened (as shown by existing letters) that
 when David Gill decided to part from Lord Lindsay,
 and there seemed to be no place in the world for him to
 fill at the moment, the two men upon whom he relied
 for guidance were Airy at Greenwich and Auwers at
 Berlin. Both of these men responded sympathetically.
 One suggestion of his own was that he should spend at
 least a year or two in Germany studying the language
 and increasing the range of his mathematics.        He also
 considered, among other plans, the wisdom of joining
 Mr. Howard Grubb as a partner in his manufacturing
 business.   The plan went so far as to specify the terms
 of partnership.    Auwers made inquiries also as to the
 possibility of finding an astronomical position for him in
 Germany or at Pulkowa. But it was Airy who, in his
 quiet, undemonstrative way, took the young astronomer
under his wing with increasing appreciation of his quali
ties, until he even went so far as to consult him on his
own work when a sound judgment was required.
    Not very long after Airy's remark to Mrs. Gill at the
Aberdeen luncheon, he found occasion to show his appre
ciation in a practical manner. Gill's correspondence shows
that, immediately after the 4-inch heliometer had first
reached Dun Echt, and after using it for a few nights,
he wrote to Mr. Cooper Key saying that his results were
so extremely accurate that with the heliometer he believed
he could determine the solar parallax from observations
of Mars, at its nearest approach to the earth, by Airy's
method, better than from observations of the transit of
Venus. It is true that after his experience with Juno he
came to the conclusion that far more accurate work

 1876-8]      PROPOSED NEW EXPEDITION                              87
could be done with one of those minor planets of small
diameter, which are shown in the telescope as mere
points of light, than with a larger and nearer planet, like
Mars, showing a disc of sensible size, affected by phase.
But in the year 1877 Mars would be nearer to us than
for the next hundred years, and he wanted to do the
very best that could be done with that planet.
    In the latter part of 1876 the Gills migrated to London,
and Gill looked about for the means to accomplish his
object by a voyage to the Isle of Ascension. First, he
applied to Lord Lindsay for the loan of his heliometer.
He, as soon as he had given up all idea of doing the same
thing himself, at Madeira or Teneriffe, freely lent the
                          " There is no one to
instrument, saying,                                whom I would
sooner lend it than to you
                                    " ;   and eventually insisted
also upon Gill's carrying off his chronograph too.
   This being arranged, there was only the question of
funds to be considered. It was now that Sir George Airy
first used his powerful influence on Gill's behalf,1 and,
largely at his instance, the Royal Astronomical Society
made an application to the Royal Society to devote to
this purpose some of the funds administered by the
Government Grant Committee. This was refused, and
then the R.A.S. gave £250 out of their own funds and
raised another £250 by subscription, Airy himself being
one of the subscribers.         Gill never in his life forgot this
act of the R.A.S. It led him ever after to devote himself,
whenever possible, to the society's interests.
   This difficulty being overcome, astronomers felt confident
that the success of the Ascension expedition was assured,
in the hands of the man who had already proved what he
could do single-handed in adverse circumstances.
   The friends who principally had used their influence
in this matter were Lord Lindsay, Airy, Adams, Hind
   1
      Sir G. B. Airy's Autobiography,         " In April of this year
                                        1877.
I  was much engaged on the subject of Mr. Gill's expedition to
Ascension to observe for the determination of the parallax of
Mars at the approaching opposition of that planet," p. 318.

88                    MARS EXPEDITION                 [Chap. VIII
and Huggins (who was then Pres. R.A.S.).             All of their
friends who knew anything about life on              the Isle of
Ascension were lost in admiration of his            bright and
charming young wife, who was determined            to share his
discomforts.
    At the time of their departure Mr. Howard Grubb
wrote —
    We are delighted to hear that you and yours are well,
at all events, and trust you may continue so.           Certainly
you have a brave wife to go to such places with you.
May [Mrs. Grubb] is beginning to think that some wives
besides herself care for their husbands.
    A fortnight    before the start upon this expedition, the
heliometer was at the rooms of the R.A.S. at Burling
ton House.        Gill was erecting it there and an accident
happened which nearly ruined the whole plan.
    Through the kindness of Mr. W. H. Wesley, the highly
respected assistant secretary of the R.A.S., who was
present at the time, the following account of what he saw
can now be told 1 in his own words.
    It  was,  I think, in April of 1877 — I have no record of
the exact     date;   the heliometer which Lord Lindsay had
lent for the expedition to Ascension had been brought to
the Society's rooms where Gill was setting it up. He
had to see that everything was in perfect order before it
left England, and he proposed to show and explain it
at the next meeting of the Society, so it was being
mounted in the meeting-room. He had been at work at
it for a day or two, and all was ready and in order, when
he thought he would adjust the polar axis to the latitude
of Ascension : this being near the Equator, the axis had
to be lowered till it approached the horizontal.           I had
been    with  him  most of the time he was at work, but had
left him for a few minutes and gone into my office; I
heard a loud crash in the meeting-room and ran to see
the cause. There stood the iron pillar, but the instru
   1  Sir David's own account of the accident is in his History,
etc., p.  xxxii; Mrs. Gill's in her book Six Months in Ascension,
p. 11.

 1876-8]      A TERRIBLE CATASTROPHE                       89
 ment, no longer upon it, lay, with the object-glass end
leaning against the meeting-room table, and the eye-
end, with its elaborate arrangement of tubes, etc., driven
through the floor. The instrument was supposed to
       "           "
 be a    universal    equatoreal, and Gill had been turning
 the screw to lower the axis, when the screw gave
out —not being sufficiently long — and the whole compli
 cated mass of apparatus was flung violently to the
floor.
   And there —upon the front seat of the meeting-room —
sat Gill, his face buried in his hands, down which blood
was trickling, as he had made an ineffectual clutch at
the falling mass.      He said something about everything
being ruined — himself — the instrument —the expedition.
It was painful to see a strong man so completely broken
down. But it only lasted a minute or so : he suddenly
                     "
got up and said, Let us see what can be done."            He
instantly began his examination of the     wreck, and asked
me to go to Lord Lindsay and tell him of the accident.
When I got back Gill had determined the extent of the
damage, and decided upon the course to be taken.         The
vital portion of the instrument, the divided object-glass,
had fortunately escaped injury, having been protected
by the metal cap, which struck the meeting-room table,
leaving a deep dent which is to be seen to this day. The
eye-pieces with their tubes were ruined, but Gill would
see Simms about them at once, and get them renewed.
As we know, everything was done in time, and the
expedition was an entire success.
   In Gill's young days the most urgent astronomical
problem was to measure as exactly as possible the sun's
distance from the earth. At that time it was known to
lie between ninety and ninety-six millions of miles.
Astronomers required to know it within a thousandth
of its amount. The distance of the sun from the earth,
or of Mars, or of a minor planet, had to be measured
               The question, then, was :
                                            " who would
accurately.                                                be
                        "
capable   of doing it ?
   Gill set this before himself as his first duty to science,
to give all his energies to helping in a solution of that
problem, and a considerable correspondence          between

 go                 MARS EXPEDITION                   [Chap. VIII
 him and Sir George Airy on this subject, from January
 8, 1876, onwards, testifies to their mutual regard.
    On February 24, 1876, Airy says he has no intention
of equipping a Mars expedition, but will rely upon the
large equatoreals at fixed observatories for measuring
the displacement of Mars caused by the earth's diurnal
rotation ; and he will be glad to examine any scheme of
Gill's for using a heliometer.
    Meanwhile Gill, after corresponding with Auwers, hopes
to use the opposition of the minor planet Melpomene,
and perhaps Ariadne, at the same time as Mars. On
March 6, 1876, Airy writes approvingly, at the same time
           "
saying,      I do not like small planets."
   There are many letters indicating the moral support
he was giving to Gill's Ascension expedition.            He also
undertook to have the Mars and Melpomene comparison
stars observed at Greenwich.1
   While Gill was at work observing at Ascension he
received several letters from Airy, from which extracts
may here be made —
   The sight of the ruddy blaze of Mars last evening
reminded me of your enterprise and position, and
made me desire to hear how you are going on, and
how Mrs. Gill approves of astronomy and society in
Ascension.
   I have not much to communicate on the transactions
      *******
in this country. There has been some uncomfortable
quarrelling in the Astronomical Society.
                                              1877, November 6.
    I. I   agree  with you in inexpressible        contempt for
Meteorology.      The reason of its attracting importance is,
that it requires no capital, of money, instruments, or
intellect.
                                       "          It may be here
   1
      Sir G. B. Airy's Autobiography.     1878.
mentioned that an extensive series of observations was made,
during the autumn, of about seventy stars, at the request of Mr.
GilI, for comparison with Mars, Ariadne and Melpomene," p. 322.

  1876-8]                 G. B.  AIRY                         91
     2. Most satisfactory is your report of work done, the
  32  + 25 observations ; I should think they would leave
  very little doubt on the parallax.
     3. I beg you to convey to Mrs. Gill the expression of
  my sincere and cordial respect, and my acknowledgment
  of the share which she has taken in this enterprise.
     4. About the possible sending to you an Altazimuth. . . .
     5. I hope that Melpomene will come off well.        I look
 upon her as my planet, for the following reason which
 you will not find in books. On 1839, June 24, I lost my
 noble boy Arthur. On 1851, June 24, 1 lost my dear
 daughter Elizabeth.       And, while feeling that day of
 sorrow, I learnt on that day a planet was discovered,
 which I was requested to name.       So I fixed on the name
 of the muse of sadness.     The Melpomene stars will soon
 come into observation.
    After the above charming extract it may be well here
 to forestall events, and to insert extracts from letters
 written in 1878, testifying to the confidence in Gill's
 unbiassed judgment, which Airy had already acquired.
                   From Sir George      Airy
                                          1878, February 11.
    My dear Sir, — You know our anxieties about the
proper    interpretations  of the eye-observations      of the
Transit of Venus. Captain Tupman has informed me that
he thinks that you would not be unwilling to aid us with
your independent judgment on that interpretation, more
especially as applying to what may have been conceived
as true internal contact.
    I should be very much obliged if you could assist us
in the way suggested. . . . — I am, my dear sir, Yours
very truly,                                     G. B. Airy.
   The investigation was duly made and reported upon.
Then finally, on March 4, 1878, Airy writes to Gill —
   Your contribution to the discussion of the observations
of the Transit of Venus is invaluable.

92                  MARS EXPEDITION                 [Chap.  VIII
    Concerning the Ascension expedition it is unnecessary
to say much here, and the reader is referred to a charming
popular description written at the time,1 in which Mrs.
Gill described the difficulties encountered on the inhospit
                " clinker,"
able volcanic                 and in their almost inaccessible
                    " Mars Bay," with much humour and
encampment at
pathos. We see two beautiful lives being lived there;
and the reader's sympathy is divided between the anxious
observer, when the heavy and delicate instruments were
being transported under dangerous conditions, or when
the clouds refused for weeks to dissipate, and the wife
who relieved him from attention to domestic concerns,
while stifling her own anxieties concerning untoward
 meteorological and astronomical affairs.
    On June 14 Mr. and Mrs. Gill sailed from Dartmouth.
Touching only at Madeira, they reached St. Helena on
 July 1. Here they had to land and wait till the 10th for
 the Edinburgh Castle to take them to their destination.
 In exploring this island, Gill seems to have taken far more
 interest in the remains of Halley's Observatory than
  in Napoleon's tomb. The observatory was set up in the
 seventeenth century when Halley commanded the first
 scientific expedition for astronomy and terrestrial mag
 netism to southern latitudes.       The climate here was so
 perfect and the skies were so cloudless, that there was
 a temptation to complete the work on that spot. But
 Ascension had been deliberately chosen on account of
 the weather reports, and Gill felt that he owed it to
 those who had financed the expedition to adhere to the
 programme they had approved.
     So on July 13 they landed in Ascension while that
 island was suffering from a slight attack of
                                                      " rollers,"
 that unexplained affection of the ocean in those parts
 which caused     them some trouble later on.        There was
    1 Six Months in Ascension, by Mrs. Gill. John Murray, 1878.
 Any one who has not yet read this delightful book has a treat in
 store.

1876-8]          A GRAVE DECISION                        93
no town .on the island, only a garrison. The island was
                          "
styled in the Navy List,    Tender to H.M.S. Flora," and
was run on true navy lines. Bread was baked every few
days, a sheep or two were killed twice a week, no vege
tables except sweet potatoes. Goat milk was generally
served with the rations, except when there were many
sick in hospital who needed it all. One gallon of water
was allowed per day.
   Captain Phillimore was very helpful, and established
them in an empty cottage ; and, in a very few days, by
July 17, the instruments were set up without mishap.
The observing books were laid out, but they remained
blank for weeks.     Clouds obscured Mars every night.
The disappointment, the anxiety, and the responsibility
grew with every night of cloud. At last it occurred to
them that the clouds might be local, due to the vapour-
laden trade wind passing over the hill-top to the
south-east. So, one night, while Gill remained with the
instruments, his wife insisted on marching with two
guides and a lantern over the pathless rock for some miles,
while husband and wife made simultaneous notes on the
weather, every half hour from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m.        Her
report was favourable, and when they compared        notes,
there could be no doubt the clouds were local, and the
instruments must be packed up again and transported
to the windward side of the island.       It was a grave
decision.
   On August 1 the dismantling process commenced,
Captain Phillimore having recommended a certain cove
near the south point of the island. On the 2nd a steam
launch towed their gear in lighters, with Gill and Captain
Phillimore, to the cove, which the Captain now christened
 "
   Mars Bay," and foundations were laid on the bleak,
 dusty, volcanic stones.  The next day sixteen Kroomen
 carried overland the delicate instruments, and in three
 days the change had been made.       It was a rough life
 there, for food and condensed water had to be carried

 94                  MARS EXPEDITION                 [Chap.  VIII
 from Garrison.      At first Mrs. Gill remained at Garrison,
 and after a few days of work the expedition again appeared
 to be doomed to failure, for Gill himself succumbed to
 over-fatigue and exposure to the sun, and was carried back
 suffering, as the doctor found, from slight fever and a
 swollen knee.     Three days of rest, however, did wonders,
 and on August 10 he returned to Mars Bay with his wife
to look after him.
    Thereafter things went better, and they had the pleasure
 of overcoming numerous difficulties.      Time had been lost,
but a splendid set of morning and evening observations
of Mars was secured, enough to ensure the complete
success of the expedition, and a triangulation was then
made by heliometer of all the comparison stars. The
 actual opposition of Mars occurred on September 5, 1877.
This work was all done by November 9.
    The opposition of Melpomene occurred on December 2,
but up to that time no complete observations could be
obtained, owing to bad weather, and eventually the attack
upon this minor planet was abandoned.
    Of course, news was immediately sent to the Royal
Astronomical Society of the successful completion of
the actual observations of Mars. The astronomer and
his wife must have felt some elation on receiving by
return mail the following friendly letter from the
President (W. Huggins).
                                            November 14, 1877.
    Dear Mr. Gill, — Scene. Nov. 9— 8.30 p.m.          Burling
ton House.
   The whole society in a roar of excitement in applause
at your success !
   What is this? A fellow (the Astronomer Royal) rises
to say that after all the real merit of success is not wholly
yours.    There is somebody else who has a claim, it may
be even prior to yours — I, as President, not only allow
him to go on, but agree with him, and another louder
roar of applause not to you, but to that other person.         I
hope   it will not  lead to  feuds and jealousies in  your  tent

          00
mm     ., o
          w
          Z
          w
          u
.1
   r
   W
     -    .«
          M
          in
          <
          a
A mm
mm'
          s
          <
          u
          -J
          a
          «!
          OS


 1876-8]              CONGRATULATIONS                        95
 if  I tell who it is that has come before you in the Society's
 appreciation.      That courageous and enthusiastic lady
 who just at the moments of greatest difficulty and anxiety
 filled your tent with sunshine and your heart with fresh
 courage.     . . .                      William Huggins.
     Their explorations and discoveries on the island in the
 interval before sailing must be read in Mrs. Gill's most
 delightful book. Captain Phillimore's sister-in-law, Miss
 Bourdillon, was the only girl on the island. Her youthful
impressions of the astronomer have remained so vivid
 that she was able to describe them in a letter to Lady
 Gill in 1915.
     His keenness and enthusiasm appealed immensely to
 me; they were, of course, peculiarly refreshing there
 [at Ascension], and how delightful they were, and his most
delightful sense of humour and power of enjoyment.
     I suppose he had great power of adaptability; I used
 to wonder then at the way he seemed to get on with
every one. When staying with you those several times
 out in the tents at Mars Bay, I used to think it so delight
 ful how he entered into the smallest details connected
with the men — your cook, and the bluejacket and Krooboy.
 He took such real interest in any whose lives touched
yours.       Do you recollect how he always read part
of the Service with them on Sunday afternoon and
evening ?
     How good and kind he must have been to me that I
never was afraid of his cleverness ! What fun we used
to have over all the quaint situations and doings of
Ascension ! Some of those talks and readings out at
Mars Bay are still quite vivid to my memory — and even
some of the stories he amused me with.           You used to
read to us in the cool of the day, do you remember, and
how he enjoyed it, before the evening work came on. I
still feel how desolate I was when you left.
    Readers of Mrs. Gill's Six Months in Ascension will feel
that they are old friends with the bluejacket Graydon
who attended them at Mars Bay. It is rather touching
to read a letter he wrote to Lady Gill in 1915.

  96                  MARS EXPEDITION                [Chap.  VIII
     I shall  never forget the many acts of kindness I received
  from your Ladyship and Sir David.      ...   I have been out
  of the Navy on Pension nearly twenty years. . . . The
 happiest time of my twenty-three years service, I can
 sincerely state, were spent under Sir David and your
 Ladyship.
     I have a happy recollection of my visit to the Observa
  tory at the Cape, and Sir David personally taking me
 all over the vast place, and joking about the difference
            "
  to poor      Mars Bay," and he was so good to me when he
 wished me good-bye. I will never meet his like again.
     On   January 9, 1878, the mail-boat arrived. On
 January 24 they landed in England, and were greeted
 by the astronomers with enthusiastic congratulations on
 their success. The reduction of the observations took
 time. They finally settled the conflicting estimates of
 the sun's distance;        and the results were universally
 accepted until long after, when Gill himself improved
 upon them, by the observations made upon three minor
 planets with a more powerful heliometer at the Cape of
Good Hope.
    The Gold Medal of the R.A.S. was awarded to him
in 1882 for this work on the Solar Parallax. In the
same year, and for the same research, he was awarded
the Valz Medal of the Institute of France (Acad, des
Sciences).
    It  must not be forgotten how much of the credit was
due to her who supported him through his labours. His
wife has always pretended that she knows nothing about
astronomy. That may be so, and yet, all of those who
knew will endorse what is said in this letter from Dr.
Auwers.
               To David   Gill  from Dr. Auwers
                                    Berlin, January   7, 1879.
    I beg to tell again, how much I have been pleased in
reading Mrs. Gill's fresh and lively account of the fortunes
of your expedition.       I now can judge myself how right

 1876-8]                   MRS.   GILL                     97
 was   Sir George Airy in stating at some meeting of the
 R.A.S. last winter that a considerable and highly appre
 ciable part of the success of the expedition was due to
the unfatigued assistance you obtained from Mrs. Gill,
and    I cannot but ask her most sincerely to accept, from
my part too, warm thanks of a scientific colleague for the
enduring and successful share she has taken in such an
important astronomical work.
    The Ascension expedition benefited Gill not only by
enhancing his reputation as an astronomer. He wrote
to astronomers all over the world, with most of whom he
was not then personally acquainted, to ask them to
 contribute observations of position for the comparison
stars which he intended to use with Mars in his heliometer
 observations.     This correspondence created new and
 lasting friendships, none greater than with E. C. Pickering
 of Harvard and Gould of Cordoba. In reply to Gill's
 letter, when the work was done, describing his experiences,
 Gould's letter contains the following —
    Your descriptions of disappointments, new endeavours,
  anxieties, etc., seemed like a narrative of past scenes in
  my own life. When I read your letter to Mrs. Gould she
  exclaimed,
              " How
                       this recalls our own past."
    What splendid things these good wives are !
    That Gill himself endorsed these sentiments is shown by
  an entry upon the fly-leaf of the copy of his Mars parallax
  Memoir which he gave to his wife. It is adapted from
  Carlyle's verse.
                         An Isobel   Gill
            So ist das Werklein nun vollbracht
            Drum nimm's mein holdes Weiblein
            An Dich, im schreiben, hab'ich stets gedacht
            Und Es und Ich wir sind ja Dein.
                                           David  Gill.
    Although during       his whole life Gill's energy was as
  remarkable at his desk as in his observatory, still there
  was nearly a year's work to be spent upon the reduction
  of his Mars observations at Ascension.
       H

                         CHAPTER IX
         APPOINTMENT TO CAPE OBSERVATORY        (1879)
Life   in London —Nasmyth — Death of his father — Radcliffe
     Observer— Appointment to Cape of Good Hope Observatory
     — Pulkowa — Airy.
David     Gill, after his Mars observations, had a great deal
of computing to do, and, wishing to be near his astronomi
cal friends and the library of the R.A.S., he took rooms in
London, and later on he furnished a house for himself and
his wife in Kensington.     Here he used a bare room on the
top floor, without carpet or table-cover, as a study. He
took great delight in showing to his friends certain old
Spanish pictures which he had acquired, on the walls of
the staircase and sitting-room.      These pictures were a
feature of his rooms in the observatory at Cape Town,
and, after his retirement, at 34 De Vere Gardens,
Kensington.
   The future for Mr. and Mrs. Gill was still unknown and
matter for some anxiety.      Borne up with this new success
as an encouragement, he set to work at the duty lying
before him of finishing all the computations connected
with his Mars observations.
   At this time the Gills widened their circle of friends in
London ; not only among astronomers, but among people
of culture generally, both literary and artistic.
   Mr. Samuel Smiles, the biographer, had long been an
intimate friend, and at his house they met men distin
guished in various walks of life. Here one evening took
place the first meeting between David Gill and James
Nasmyth.      Nasmyth is best known as the inventor of
                               98

 i8t9]                 JAMES NASMYTH                              99
the steam hammer,       but his autobiography    1
                                                   is a fascinating
record of mechanical and inventive skill applied to
engineering, and, after retiring from business with a fine
fortune, to making astronomical telescopes with his own
hands, and adding materially to our knowledge of the
heavenly bodies.
    It  was he,   in fact, who first detected the remarkable
individuality      of the minute components of the sun's
photosphere visible only under the best atmospheric con
ditions, generally called Nasmyth's willow-leaves because
of their shapes. His astronomical speculations, especially
on the moon's constitution, were ingenious, and his
mechanical skill in grinding and polishing specula very
great. Nasmyth held very decided views about the true
education of an engineer.2
   The truth is that the eyes and the fingers —the bare
fingers — are the two principal inlets to sound practical
instruction.      They are the chief sources of trustworthy
knowledge as to all the materials and operations which
the engineer has to deal with.           No book knowledge can
avail for    that purpose. The      nature and properties of the
materials must come in through the finger-ends. Hence
I have no faith in young engineers who are addicted to
wearing gloves.       Gloves, especially kid gloves, are perfect
non-conductors of knowledge. This has really more to
do with the efficiency of young aspirants for engineering
success than most people are aware of.
                                       " workman's hand," and
    Nasmyth was proud of his
                                                 " his mark," an
was in the habit of signing papers with
ink impression of his thumb-mark.           [The writer has one
of them before him while he indites these words.]
   The characters of Gill and Nasmyth had much in
common, of mechanics, astronomy, and dogged persist
ence.     After dinner on the evening when they first met,
while they conversed upon subjects of mutual interest,
   1
      James Nasmyth, Engineer :     An Autobiography.     Edited by
Samuel Smiles, LL.D.        London,  John Murray, 1885.
   *
      Autobiography, p. 95.

 1oo              CAPE OBSERVATORY                 [Chap. IX
Nasmyth suddenly seized hold of Gill's hand, a broad,
strong, flexible hand, and in his Scottish accent said,
 " Man,
         I like yer thoom ! "
   When the party broke up, Mr. and Mrs. Gill with James
Nasmyth took the same omnibus. Nasmyth got out
first. When Gill paid the conductor the latter said,
 " And a
           penny for the other gentleman ; he said you
would pay his fare."     The Gills were amused at this.
   The next day a letter arrived from Nasmyth enclos
ing a cheque for £1000 for Gill to spend on whatever
astronomical instrument he might think he could do the
best work with. Gill was full of gratitude for the welcome
gift to their much-loved science, and deposited the money
in the ,bank. As it happened, he was appointed to the
Cape Observatory very soon after.       So he returned the
cheque that it might be applied more advantageously.
Nasmyth, however, found an opportunity later to renew
the offer.
   During this period he also made the acquaintance of
painters in London already mentioned, and had many
opportunities of cultivating his great appreciation for
music.
   On April 6, 1878, his father died at Aberdeen, David
having travelled north on account of his sudden illness.
He was occupied for a month there with the business of
the estate.    As eldest son he became the owner of the
estate of Blairythan, a farming property the rent-roll of
which relieved him from any present uneasiness on his
wife's account, and enabled him to devote himself all the
more completely to his chosen path in life.
   At the beginning of May 1878 the death of the Rev.
Robert Main, Radcliffe Observer, Oxford, left a vacancy
at that observatory.    The most notable feature of that
place at the time was its possession of a magnificent
heliometer, the only one in Britain besides Lord Lind
say's. It had never been put to any useful purpose.
At that date there was only one man in Britain who had

 i879]            RADCLIFFE OBSERVER                          101
done good work with a heliometer, and his had nearly
rivalled all that had ever been done elsewhere with it
 (even by Bessel), and this man was David Gill.
    Obviously this was a post to which he could undoubt
edly bring credit, and he applied for it. His friends felt
equally sure about his special fitness for this post, par
ticularly those in Russia and Germany, who themselves
had practical experience with the heliometer. There is
a copy of Gill's testimonials among the papers in the
Archiva Lindesiana of Lord Crawford.        Gill himself does
not appear to have kept a copy. The names of his
supporters1 and their manner of stating Gill's claims
ought to have borne great weight. Airy, when asked
for support, quoted some rule he had which prevented
his helping
    Among Sir David Gill's private papers, there is a letter
to him from Sir George Airy.
                 From Sir George B. Airy
                        Royal Observatory, Greenwich,
                                                1878,  June 10.
    My dear Sir, — Under various considerations I have
abandoned the rule which I stated to you in reference to
the position of Radcliffe Observer, and have addressed a
letter to the Trustees of the Radcliffe Fund and Observa
 tory. — I am, my dear Sir, Yours very truly, G. B. Airy.
   David Gill, Esq.
    Gill had no one to push his candidature   ;  so,  in spite of
his great claims as shown by testimonials and by his
skill in using the heliometer, his name seems to have
been put on one side.
   The other candidates were Stone, Christie, Tupman and
Pogson. The Trustees gave the appointment to Mr.
   1
     The names of Mr. Gill's supporters were : Lord Lindsav,
Professor J. Clerk Maxwell, Dr. Huggins, J. R. Hind, Dr. Ball,
Rev. T. R. Robinson, Professor R. Grant, Sir William Thomson,
John Hartnup, Otto Strove, Professor Dollen, Dr. Auwers,
Dr. Forster, Dr. Winnecke, Dr. H. C. Vogel, Dr. J. G. Galle,
Professor Bakhuyzen, Dr. Oudemans, Professor E. C. Pickering.

102               CAPE OBSERVATORY                      [Chap. IX
Stone. This left a vacancy at the Cape of Good Hope,
but not immediately, for the Radcliffe Trustees allowed
Mr. Stone to stay on at the Cape to conclude some valuable
work on which he was then engaged.            Until recently the
Cape Observatory was almost the only one suitable for
a study of the southern heavens.           The requirements of
astronomy in that direction were very great, and Gill
felt it in him to do good work there for his beloved science,
and applied for the post.      The only other candidate was
Mr. W. H. M. Christie, chief assistant at Greenwich Ob
servatory, whose claims to the appointment were placed
before the Admiralty by the Astronomer Royal.
   Gill, during the anxious period of waiting, was hopeful
but diffident ; for he was well aware that he was a self-
made astronomer, who owed nothing to outside influence ;
that he had not been trained under any great astronomer ;
that he had proved his mathematical powers to the world
only to the extent required in actual work, and not by a
contest in the Cambridge Tripos. But the friends who
supported him knew that his reputation was established
as an almost unrivalled observer, as an engineer for the
design and equipment of an observatory, with remark
able organizing powers, and as an astronomer of great
ability, lofty ideals, sound judgment, originality and
dogged perseverance ; and that astronomy needed him.
   Gill was probably never aware of what he owed to his
old chief, Lord Lindsay, for taking some trouble to see
that in this case his testimonials should receive proper
consideration.    This can be learnt only by reading the
private papers of Lord Lindsay, placed at the writer's
disposal by the present Earl of Crawford.1
   1
     The present earl has given much help by searching out old
documents for use in this biography. It is a splendid comment
upon the present great European war that, when I asked, in
August 1915, for further materials, Lady Crawford should, in
reply to my letter, have told me that her husband would be
unable for some time to attend to the matter, because "Lord
Crawford is serving at the front as a private in the R.A.M.C."

i879]        APPOINTMENT TO THE CAPE                    103
    It really came as a surprise, and a great joy, to the
Gills when, on February 10, 1879, first from Lord Lindsay
and later from the Admiralty, the news came of his
appointment as Her Majesty's Astronomer at the Cape
of Good Hope. Among Lord Lindsay's papers there are
two almost identical holograph notes, probably sent to
different addresses, from Mr. W. H. Smith, First Lord of
the Admiralty, announcing the decision he had reached.
    There were barely three months left for preparations
before they should start for their new home.     There was
much to be done,. and one of Gill's first acts was to write
to Mr. Nasmyth returning his gift of £1000 as no longer
being required. He had also to get rid of the lease of his
house, and pack up his furniture and belongings.         He
was also anxious to establish more firmly the friendships
he had made with astronomers abroad and his knowledge
of their instruments before leaving for the southern hemi
sphere.     And it was most important that he should have
his Mars calculations complete before sailing.
    Some notion of the affectionate esteem in which Mr.
Gill was even at this date held by his scientific friends
 may be gathered from the remarkable contents of the
 following letter.
                     To Sir George   Airy
                36 Pembroke Road, Kensington, S.W.,
                                           1879, March 31.
     Dear Sir George, — I    have received a very unusual
 and liberal offer, viz. from Mr. Newall of the loan of his
 25-Inch Telescope for a period of years at the Cape, and
 of £1000 from Mr. James Nasmyth towards the cost of
 transporting and erecting the same.
     Such a proposal seems to deserve and require the most
 careful consideration.
     Of the work open for such an Instrument I need not
 write to you, nor need I write you on the other hand of
  the dangers of being over-instrumented.
     After much anxious thought I have determined to ask
 my generous friends to allow time for the consideration

104               CAPE OBSERVATORY                 [Chap. IX
of the question.     When I have discussed future work
with Mr. Stone, when     I have been on the spot and ascer
tained something of the capabilities of my staff — then I
should be in a better position to judge of the wisdom of
accepting the proposal.
   If then I decided on accepting it I would be able to
lay the matter before the Admiralty in a much more
complete and practical form. In the meantime I would
be greatly obliged if you would think the matter over in
its various aspects, and on my return from the Continent
give me your opinion about it.
   I would have called at Greenwich on the subject, but
I leave on Monday morning on a visit to the Continental
Observatories and have many matters to arrange which
keep me busily employed.
   I am, my dear    Sir George, very sincerely yours,
                                             David Gill.
   Sir George Airy took a great deal   of trouble about this
offer, and wrote very fully when Gill  returned to England.
In the end it was settled to leave it  over for the present,
both Newall and Nasmyth allowing       their generous offers
to remain open for twelve months.
   The tour of foreign observatories had most valuable
results. He visited Paris, Leiden, Groningen, Hamburg,
Copenhagen, Helsingfors, Pulkowa and Strassburg. The
personal friendships which he then made or strengthened
secured all the co-operation that was often necessary to
him in his isolated post at the Cape.       His enthusiasm,
force of character, and winning personality infected the
younger men he met, and made some of them ready
in after years to assist in his great undertakings.       At
Strassburg Professor Winnecke and his senior students
in astronomy — Kiistner, Hartwig, Hermann Struve,
Ambronn and Elkin — were all, from that time, his de
voted friends. And so it was everywhere and always.
   Professor Backlund supplies the following notes of
Gill's visit to Pulkowa —

1 879]          FOREIGN OBSERVATORIES                                105
    I remember well the impression he made on me, an
impression which corresponded very nearly to the image
I had formed from studying his scientific works. The
remarkable clearness and energy in the expression of his
scientific views did not, accordingly, surprise me.
    During his short stay in Pulkowo 1 the astronomers
assembled to discuss a variety of astronomical questions,
the last evening. It was in the house of Dollen; he
exposed to us his plans for developing the Cape Observa
tory into a first-class observatory, and he did that in
such a manner as to fully convince us that " ille faciet."
    After the conversazione he proved himself an enter
taining guest at supper. The hostess— Mrs. Dollen —
talked with him about Paris, where he had spent some
time before arriving at Pulkowo. To her question how
he beguiled the evenings there after his scientific meetings
he answered that he strolled along the boulevards looking
                                         "
at the beautiful Parisiennes.              How would that please
                               "                           "
Mrs. Gill if she knew it ? asked Mrs. Dollen.                 I strolled
just for the pleasure of telling my wife what beautiful
sights Paris has for the strangers," was the answer.
   After seventeen years I met Gill again, this time in
Paris in 1896 at the astrographic congress and at the
subsequent congress of ephemerides.                  The seventeen
years had in no way abated his energy ; on the contrary,
they had enhanced it, supported now by the considerable
success at the Cape.         He had entered the ranks of lead
ing astronomers, and his vast views, greatness of mind,
conscientiousness and acuteness in details, and enormous
activity in all branches of astronomy, predestined him
to sway in the dominion of astronomy.                      This great
faculty to make his opinion prevail was renowned. In
the Congress of Ephemerides there were two proposals
about the value of the constant of aberration.               Newcomb
proposed 2o""50, a lesser value beingnot compatible with his
theory of the planetary motions. Gill stood out for 2o".47,
deduced from his observations at the Cape.                This value,
which is greater than that of Struve, 2o"-44, was accepted.2
   1
     It is well understood that this spelling is considered by
Dr. Backhand to be the correct one. It has been more con
                                                         "
venient in this book generally to use the old form          Pulkowa."
   1
     The latest result (of 1915) finally reached at Greenwich with the
wonderfully accurate floating Telescope of Cookson agrees exactly
with Gill's value of 1896.    See M.N. of the R.A.S., 1915.

106                CAPE OBSERVATORY                   [Chap.  IX
   It  is much to be regretted that we are not able to give
in the same form the impressions of Dr. Auwers when at
this time he, too, again received his friend in Berlin.      But
his sad death at an advanced age in 1915, on January 24,
the anniversary of Sir David's death, and the circum
stances attending the war initiated by Germany against
Europe and the higher civilization, have closed to the
biographer the storehouse of information in the posses
sion of that great leader of astronomical work in Germany.
From 1873 to 1914 Auwers and Gill worked hand in hand,
knowing well that in every work undertaken to advance
their science each could rely upon the other as upon a
second self.
   This tour of the foreign observatories had a great
effect    on the future of astronomical observation.           It
enabled Gill to picture in his own mind his ideals for the
creation at the Cape of the premier observatory of the
southern hemisphere.        Absorbing instrumentally all that
was best in Europe, with definite departures in the direc
tion of still greater exactness ; following closely, in govern
ment and control of work, the lines of Airy's methodical
system in operation at Greenwich ; and imitating, socially,
Struve's example at Pulkowa, by uniting all the personal
elements of an observatory into a happy, enthusiastic,
patriarchal colony. His ultimate success in attaining
these three ideals is attested by all, without exception, of
those who served under him and of those who visited him
at the Cape.      He would have been the first to admit that
much of the success accorded to him came from the
friendships, among the older astronomers, which he
formed in these earlier days. He was helped also by the
numbers of enthusiasts, mostly young men, from all
countries who desired to consolidate his friendship and
 to absorb more of his spirit, in many cases by working at
the Cape as his disciples or collaborateurs.1
   1
     e. g. Elkin, De Sitter, Jacoby, Cookson, Auwers, McClean,
 Innes, Franklin -Adams.

i87»]               SIR GEORGE AIRY                             107
   After returning    from his continental tour he had a
great deal to do with Airy, who was anxious to do the
best with Newall's offer, for he knew well that, as an
observer with the equatoreal, Gill was as capable of
doing good work as he certainly was in the accurate
fundamental astronomy of position.           At this time Gill
made himself master of Airy's well-known methods for
arranging his correspondence, which he introduced suc
cessfully at the Cape, although his natural turn of mind
often left his own desk in a condition of apparently
hopeless confusion.
   During all these preparations he had to finish off his
Mars reductions.      During their conversations, the Astro
nomer Royal had discovered an unsuspected effect which
might introduce a source of error into the results, due to
atmospheric dispersion. The predominant ruddy colour
of Mars might give to atmospheric refraction less effect
in the case of the planet than of the comparison stars,
 especially with the lower altitudes.      About a week before
sailing Gill was able to send to Sir George Airy his final
         ******
results.
                    To Sir George Airy
                                              London,
                                                  1879, April  26.
   The Mars observations are discussed.
   The resulting solar parallax from all observations is
                                    1
                            8-783
    I have also divided the observations of each evening
 and each morning into two groups of greater and lesser
 zenith distance. The groups of greater Z.D. give 8*786.
 The groups of lesser Z.D. give 8*780.
    It would appear, therefore, that the chromatic dis
 persion has exercised a very insensible influence in the
 result.
   1
     This result was universally accepted.   Gill's final attack on
the problem with minor planets gave a result differing from this
 by only two-hundredths of a second of arc.

 108               CAPE OBSERVATORY                [Chap. IX
    Before their actual departure for the Cape, Professor
 Piazzi Smyth sent to the Gills a long account of life at
the Cape Observatory founded upon his own experiences
 there forty years before.     This was written on eleven
 folio pages, in his usual quaint manner of description.
 It concludes with two of his clever pen-and-ink sketches
of the Cape Observatory, very interesting as being about
the date 1843.
    When giving Mrs. Gill hints about house management
there, he begins one paragraph thus —
    In the way of entomology, I never saw a real disgust
ing B flat, as a musician said, except on a parcel brought
to the Obs* out of Cape Town : but the lively little
 F sharp is to be kept in order by nothing but abundant
washings down with soap and water; and therefore, no
carpets ! But there is another flat thing they call a
Bushfly, a creeping flat brown affair, who in the summer
contrives to get upon you in your walks, and if you do
not look sharp he begins burying himself head-first into
some convenient place for him between your shoulders
and very inconvenient for you to get at him. Husband
and wife may then be of inestimable service, for if you
get hold of the body of the creature you must pull gently
only, or the head will come off; and being left in your
skin will make the cure rather worse than the disease.
    Of reptiles, you must be forewarned of the snakes. . . .
But occasionally a poisonous cobra is met with ; and
occasionally also a puff-adder which is worse, for it will
pursue to bite, as well as bite when pursued.
    It is impossible to withhold admiration, at this stage
in his life, for the Aberdonian tradesman who, regardless
of pecuniary interests, by his own efforts towards the
attainment of his noble ideals, in the course of seven
years of unremitting       subordinate labour, had been
placed, with the acclamation of the astronomical world,
in a field of labour giving full scope to his indomitable,
inexhaustible energy.

          BOOK   II
THE WORK OF A REAL ASTRONOMER


                            CHAPTER X
               FRIENDSHIPS AT CAPETOWN         (1879)
 New friends — Mr. Trimen, F.R.S. — Sir Fred. Richards — Sir
      Bartle Frere — Sir George Colley — Sir Thomas Fuller — Dr.
      Muir — Cecil Rhodes — General Gordon — Social pleasures.
    My lines are so pleasant to me, that everybody ought to come to
 me to catch the infection of happiness. This work is what I looked
forward to for long. —    Clerk  Maxwell.
 In June     1879,   Gill and his wife arrived at Capetown.
 Never in his life did he lose the impression produced upon
 his mind, that lovely morning, as the fog lifted, when he
 first beheld the glorious view of the flat-topped Table
 Mountain, of the Lion's Head and Rump, with the white
 buildings of the town resting along the sea front, and
 climbing the slopes behind. His predecessor at the
 observatory, Mr. Stone, who was to sail for home the next
 day, came on board to welcome them. Soon after, they
 all drove a few miles out, to the observatory, a forlorn
 spot where they must needs make their home.                  Only
 a rough, muddy road led, at that time, from the station
 to the observatory.         The avenue was little better than
 a cart track up the side of the hill; the grounds
 were entirely neglected, and practically in a wild state.
 Except for the trees planted by Lady Maclear (whose
 husband, Sir Thomas Maclear, had been H.M. Astronomer
 there), the hill was untended, the only redeeming feature
 being the beautiful arum lilies and other wild flowers
 which in their season sprang up on all sides, and helped to
 give an appearance of cheerfulness which was otherwise
                                   in

H2           FRIENDSHIPS AT CAPETOWN                     [Chap.  X
wanting.     The rooms, with furniture dismantled and
prepared for sale, looked homeless and uninviting.
   They lived for a week at an hotel in Cape Town. After
wards, when settled down in their future home, they
began to discover great possibilities, and hopes arose
that, with care and attention, the observatory might be
made a charming place of residence.            It was fortunate
that the temperaments both of husband and wife led
them to take this outlook, and not to abandon themselves
and the place to despair as their predecessors had done.
Before many years they transformed this wilderness
into one of the most delightful homes in South Africa.
   They moved into the observatory before their furniture
could be put in place.          They themselves had already
             "            "
learnt to      rough it      together at the Pyramids and in
Ascension ; but now early callers began to arrive, to whom
tea had to be administered on packing-cases for tables,
a source of great amusement to guests and hosts alike.
 In a week or two order was better established.
    During their temporary stay at the hotel their first
 visitors were Miss Maclear (daughter of the old astro
 nomer), Mr. Charles Fairbridge and Mr. Roland Trimen,
 F.R.S., then curator of the museum, afterwards resident
in    England.1 These first visitors continued to be the
 dearest of friends.     It is worth while saying a few words
 now about his relationship with the leading people when
 he arrived at the Cape.
    The deplorable condition of the observatory grounds
 became a blessing in disguise, for it enlisted the sympathy
 of a man who became Gill's staunchest supporter and
 adviser in negotiations with the Admiralty, Admiral Sir
 Frederick     Richards,    known   to his associates     as  King
 Dick.2
    1 Mr. Roland Trimen died July 25, 1916.
    1 In the crypt of St. Paul's Cathedral his marble portrait
 medallion in a frame of alabaster bears the following inscription :
 Admiral of the Fleet Sir Frederick W. Richards, G.C.B., D.C.L.,
 First Sea Lord of the Admiralty, 1893-9. Vigilant and resolute.

                                                                                " Canopus.
                                                             [To face page ii:.
THE SOUTHERN     MILKY WAY, WITH COALSACK, NEBECULA MAJOR,
   AND STARS,    TRULY PLACED ; o AND 8 CEN'TAURI POINTING
                        TO SOUTHERN      CROSS.
              (Drawn from Table Bay by George Forbe;, 1914.)


1 879]         SIR FREDERICK RICHARDS                       113
    Ignorant of Admiralty methods, Gill wrote to Com
modore Richards (as he then was), the Commander-in-
Chief at Simons Bay, asking him to come to see the state
of things and to look at his report.          He came, had
luncheon, looked round, bade them good-bye, and said
nothing.      A few days later, by invitation, the visit was
returned and the Gills spent the night at Admiralty
House. After dinner he showed Gill a letter he had
written to the Admiralty containing important sugges
tions. It ended with these words :        "I  should be glad
if your Lordships would inform me what should be my
relations with the astronomer at the Cape." After two
 months the invitation was repeated and after dinner the
Commodore put into Gill's hands the Admiralty answer
approving of the suggestions for keeping the grounds.
The letter ended thus —
    With regard to the concluding paragraph of your letter,
in which you request to be informed what should be your
relations with the Astronomer at the Cape, I am instructed
by my Lords to inform you that the relations between
the Commodore and the astronomer have hitherto been
of the most agreeable description, and their Lordships
trust that they will so continue.
     In relating this after his retirement, Gill added —
    To the ingenious Admiralty official who penned this
witty reply I beg to render my warmest congratulations
on the manner in which his suggestions have been
followed ; for I can imagine no more kindly and helpful
friends than those I found in the ten successive Com
manders-in-Chief under whom I had the honour to serve
during my twenty-seven years' tenure of office at the
Cape.
    The most important personage in the colony was
the Governor, Sir Bartle Frere; and Gill's respect and
admiration     for him   during   the  whole  time   of   their
With singleness of heart and purpose he devoted his life to the
Navy and to the Empire, 1833-1912.
       I

H4          FRIENDSHIPS AT CAPETOWN               [Chap. X
acquaintance grew steadily with increased knowledge.
Lady Frere's tact was impressed upon him forcibly
at the first dinner given by her in Sir Bartle's absence,
which he and Mrs. Gill attended.
   As the guests assembled a telegram was handed to her,
but no outward sign of its seriousness was manifest
during the evening. Next morning we were told that it
contained news of the death of the Prince Imperial, who
had been killed in Zululand.    She was doubtless aware
of the effect which this event would have on the career
of her husband, and yet, so perfect was her courtesy,
that by no outward sign could we detect the seriousness
of the situation.
   Soon   after, Sir Bartle returned from Natal and a
public dinner celebrated the occasion, when the Gills were
present.    When speaking of this long afterwards, Sir
David said —
   A few days afterwards, photographs of the banquet
appeared in the shop windows, when I observed, very
much in the foreground, at the lower end of the table, an
enlarged head of a gentleman with a bald spot on the
back of it, which from the dress of the neighbouring
ladies I soon identified as a representation of my own
headpiece.    Thus, much to my wife's amusement, I
made the first discovery that I was bald.
   This was not the only occasion on which his own
idiosyncrasies were revealed to him in a way that caused
him much amusement. About this time a phonograph
of early type was exhibited in Adderley Street. The
Gills entered the shop to examine it. Gill spoke into
the instrument.. When he heard the reproduction of
his own voice he turned to those round him and said :
"                                          "
  Do I r-really r-roll my R's like that?       A burst of
laughter assured him that the reproduction was accurate,
and he himself joined in the merriment, utterly surprised
at his discovery.
   In the interview    from  which   some  of  the   above

 1879]              SIR BARTLE FRERE                       115
quotations have been made          1
                                     Sir David added to his
recollections.
    I  shall never forget the impression which Sir Bartle
Frere's personality made upon me. The earnestness of
the man, his desire to promote everything that could
conduce to the advancement of South Africa, the per
sistent questions he put to me as to what, from the
scientific point of view, could best be done to forward
its interests. He urged me to be president of the Philo
sophical Society, in succession to himself, and, although
I at first refused on the ground that I had so much to do
in organizing my new work, he came out one day person
ally to the observatory for the express purpose of insisting
that I should take that position.        Naturally, under such
pressure I consented.
   During the conversation just mentioned, I endeavoured
to impress upon him the necessity for setting on foot a
systematic triangulation of the Colony, and he, accus
tomed to Indian administration and knowing the value
attached to accurate survey there, aided my views in
every way in his power. At that time the finances of the
Colony were not in a flourishing condition, and the
Ministers felt that they could not at the time respond to
his earnest entreaty that the work should be set on foot.
But the day after Sir George Colley arrived at Cape
Town to take up the Governorship of Natal, Sir Bartle
Frere brought him to the observatory in order that he
might talk over the possibility of starting a systematic
survey in Natal. As a result of that conversation Sir
George Colley promised to advocate a survey of Natal
as soon as possible.
   There is little doubt that Sir David Gill's estimate of
Sir Bartle Frere is confirmed by the verdict of all com
petent critics.    It was still more confirmed by what Lord
Milner said to him, as he told it in South Africa —
   I recall a specially interesting conversation with Lord
Milner.     It was shortly before his celebrated speech at
Graaff Reinet.      We were alone in the library after dinner
at Government House, and were speaking together of the
             1
               Majority special number of South Africa.

Il6          FRIENDSHIPS AT CAPETOWN                 [Chap.  X
situation.    I can remember now his concluding words.
             "
He said :      I have, as you know, very closely studied
the history of South Africa, and whenever I come upon
the footprints of Sir Bartle Frere I feel that I am on solid
ground. If I fail as Sir Bartle Frere failed I should die
a proud man."
   Sir David goes on to say —
   I have no doubt whatever that history will justify
Lord Milner as it has justified Sir Bartle Frere; but it
is sad to think that party feeling, prejudice, and ignorance
in both cases combined, in the first place, to condemn
men who deserved so well of their country, and who
served it with such courage, ability and self-sacrifice.
   Sir David's final tribute to Sir Bartle, in the interview
quoted, is as follows —
   On August 1 of that year (1880) Sir Bartle Frere was
recalled. No man ever better deserved the thanks of
the Government at home and of South Africans generally
than did that great administrator.        No man was ever
more cruelly and unfairly treated. Capetown understood
 the services he rendered and never before and never since
 [this was said in 1908] has a population so fully shown by
 the demonstration made at his departure the depth of
 feeling which possessed them. Capetown, from the top
 of Adderley Street to the Docks, was one mass of human
 beings waiting in respectful silence to make their adieu
 to the great man who was leaving them under the cloud
 of the displeasure of those who did not know; to the
 sorrow and regret of those who did. My wife, in 1880,
 was unfortunately ill and had to return to England for
 medical advice, and I, from having so recently arrived,
 was unable to accompany her. Lady Frere kindly under
 took to look after her by the way, and I have often heard
 my wife say that it was amazing that a man who had
 suffered so much from unworthy treatment should have
 spoken always so gently and charitably of all that had
 passed.
                                                         "
    South Africa used then to be looked upon as             the
 grave of great reputations."     Sir Bartle Frere's reputa

i879]             SIR BARTLE FRERE                         117
tion   has increased with the years; and many a man
pauses, in admiration, before his fine statue, in the
gardens between Whitehall Court and the Thames, with
" India" and "Africa" emblazoned on either side. The
statue was erected by public subscription in 1888.
   Miss Georgina Frere has sent some notes about the
relations between her father and Mr. Gill.
   Between my father and him mutual esteem and regard
at once sprung up and never lessened.       Sir Bartle recog
nized in him a man after his own heart, of swift intuition
and of disinterested zeal for the public service.        [She
adds many personal recollections of Gill as he appeared
in 1879.] Nothing came amiss, and in many forms of
physical exercise he found the needed relaxation from
the absorption of his work.      Shooting and dancing we all
know remained favourite forms of enjoyment to the end
of his life, and when first in South Africa I remember his
also riding a great deal.
                 From Sir Bartle Frere
                  Wkessil Lodge, Wimbledon     Common,
                                              July 24, 1883.
   My dear     Gill, — I have   sent you by Garth Castle a
box of     Books, which I shall be obliged if you will
present in my name to the Philosophical Soc*.       I hope it
continues a vigorous existence under your auspices. I
constantly see evidence in the scientific Journals that the
Cape Observatory keeps up its old fame — but it is long
since I heard any tidings of what the Phil. Soc*. are
about. You will have been gratified by Trimen's F.R.S.
Pray kindly congratulate him on his well deserved honours,
and tell him I had often my pen in hand to write my own
congratulations but the ambitious wish to write a long
letter, and constant interruptions, wrecked this —like many
other good intentions.
   You will have been greatly grieved by Spottiswoode's 1
death. His funeral was a remarkable testimony of the
widespread sorrow at his loss, felt by men of all ranks
and occupations from Chancellors of Universities to
compositors and errand boys, for his loss was as great
to the poor of London as to the philosophers of Europe.
                        1
                          Pres. Roy. Soc.

118          FRIENDSHIPS AT CAPETOWN                 [Chap. X
    There is nothing comforting to write about the political
world.    The most accomplished, but most crotchety and
mischievous in practice, of Prime Ministers goes on leading
the great Liberal party from one quagmire to another —
and few seem to see that the Anarchists are the only party
really thriving. I wish your political aspects were more
cheering in S. Africa. It will be something if you can
tell us you are yourself well, and Mrs. Gill really in better
health than when she left us. Give her kindest regards
from us all, and believe me, my dear Gill, ever very
sincerely yours,                        H. B. S. Frere.
   On October 1, 1879, Gill made a report to Sir Bartle
Frere on the Trigonometrical Survey of South African
colonies, which was printed officially.       It lays down
general principles of great value by which a general
triangulation should at the same time become the basis
of a map for co-ordinating all local surveys made for
fixing boundaries, and also assist the scientific needs of
geodesy for determining the size and figure of the earth
by the measurement of a long arc of meridian.             The
practical suggestions are of the utmost value.
   Gill submitted the scheme to Sir George Airy as the
most competent critic among his friends. He replied
on December 7, 1879 —
   I approve entirely of your general plan and am certain
that, so far as it is connected with territorial survey, it
is the only one that can meet all wants. . . . There is
ten years' work cut out for you.
   Gill's reputation as an astronomer had preceded him,
and when the leading men there discovered that he was
prepared to occupy himself with their interests as well as
his own professional ones, he immediately came to be
recognized as the man to be consulted, not only upon all
scientific matters, but also on all questions where a
sound judgment was wanted for the good of the com
munity.     He was seized upon to help the museum and
the Philosophical Society while he was pushing his plans

i879]             SIR THOMAS FULLER                       119
of survey. So also he was drawn into the vortex of
education, and came in contact with Mr. Thomas Fuller,1
who had been mainly responsible for the foundation of
the Cape University, and who insisted on the formation
of a physical laboratory.      It was he who selected the
successor    to Sir Langham Dale as Superintendent-
General of Education ; but his choice was influenced
by the advice of Gill, who has left the following
reminiscences    —
    I remember being consulted by Mr. Merriman about
the appointment of a successor to Sir Langham Dale,
and I strongly recommended that a Scotsman should be
appointed, on the ground that the Scottish system of
education is the one best suited to South Africa, and
because I thought that I knew men who would be ready
and willing to give their advice in making a wise choice.
Mr. Thomas Fuller went home with instructions to make
the necessary enquiries, and I furnished him with a letter
of introduction to Lord MacLaren, one of the judges in
Edinburgh, to whom I wrote, telling him of Mr. Fuller's
mission, and suggesting that perhaps he could arrange
that Mr. Fuller should meet Lord Kelvin and Professor
Chrystal, of Edinburgh, in consultation on the subject.
They all met at Lord MacLaren's house, and their
unanimous opinion was that of all men Dr. Muir, of the
High School of Glasgow, was beyond doubt the best man
obtainable.      Mr. Rhodes, before making the appoint
ment, interviewed Dr. Muir, and the result was Dr.
Muir's selection.
    This proved to be a wise choice, and Sir David Gill
added —
to that appointment also, and the society of Dr. Muir,
 I, for my part, owe many of the pleasantest hours of my
 life at the Cape.
    It  was characteristic of the man, and, doubtless, had
 not a little to do with his increasing influence, that in
    1
      Afterwards Sir Thomas Fuller, Agent-General for the Cape
of Good    Hope.

   120         FRIENDSHIPS AT CAPETOWN                [Chap. X
  these matters he had a    lively appreciation of witty and
  humorous incidents.     He tells us —
      In those days the Education Department was under
  Sir Langham Dale, who was afterwards assisted by Mr.
  Donald Ross. In his zeal the latter published a series
  of answers to questions in examinations, some of which
  stick to me still as good stories. At an elementary
  teachers' examination, for example, the question asked
         " State what                             "
  was,                 you know about gravity ; to which
                     "
  the answer was,      Gravity is, if you go to the top of a
 hill and jump up, you will come down again. If it was
 not for gravity you would never come down again. We
 ought to be very thankful that there is gravity."
                                             "
     Another question I remember was :         State what you
 know about the connexion between electricity and
                                   "
 lightning." The answer was,          Lightning is sometimes
 several miles long, but electricity is never more than
 two or three inches long." Another question was :
 " What
            place should music occupy in the curriculum of
              "                     "
 a school?       The answer was,      Music should be placed
 in the middle of the room, and taught at eleven o'clock
 on Wednesdays."
     I remember that when Sir Langham Dale came to
see this portion of the Blue-book he was not entirely
pleased, and Mr. Donald Ross had a bad quarter of an
hour.
    Gill's attitude towards the great surveying operations
with which he has enriched the world is characteristic
of all his progresses in astronomical achievement. He
had the consciousness of a power in him to accomplish
great things. He felt that this gave him the right to
demand all possible assistance to that end. And he was
full of the indomitable energy which compelled support
to his projects.
    Thus it was that at the very commencement of his
Cape career he had the active support, in his preliminary
operations, of Sir Bartle Frere, Sir George Colley, and Sir
Frederick Richards, followed later by that of Lord
Milncr, Cecil Rhodes, Earl Grey, Sir Charles Mitchell,

 i879]        SIR FREDERICK RICHARDS                         121
 Lord Loch, and all the admirals who ever commanded at
 the Cape station.
    A determined man, too, is, more often than not,
 favoured by what we call luck.         It could hardly be fore
 told or expected at that date that Gill would ever see
 the Orange Free State, the Transvaal and the extensive
 tracts of Rhodesia as integral parts of the British Empire
 through which the measurements for his great arc of
 meridian should pass towards his goal on the Mediter
ranean, or that its course in the north would be assisted
by the hostility of the Mahdi giving into our hands the
 Upper Nile and Lake territories.         Through these events
his original aspirations developed into expectations ; and
 the measured great meridian arc, on 300 east longitude,
                            "
 became, as he told us,       the dream of my life." 1
    While Gill's highest pleasure arose from doing these
things himself, he also derived great delight in later life
 in recounting the valuable assistance he received from
many friends, and also from the officials at the Admiralty,
who soon discovered that when Gill wanted a thing done
there was always a very good reason for it. There was
no one to whom he was more indebted in this way than
Sir Frederick Richards, who in 1898 became Admiral of
the Fleet.     His first indebtedness has been mentioned,
his second is told thus —
    In October   1880  I  visited Natal as the guest of Com
 modore Richards on his flagship Boadicea, in order to
make preliminary         experiments connected with         the
telegraphic longitude of Aden and Cape Town, and to
further discuss with Sir George Colley the steps to be
taken in connexion with the proposed survey. The result
was that Sir George Colley took immediate steps to for
ward the project by addressing a message to the Legis
lative Council proposing to place a sum of £2000 on the
Estimate of 1881, for the initial expense of the proposed
operation.     One of the last documents addressed by
            1 Presidential address, Brit. Assoc., 1907.

 122          FRIENDSHIPS AT CAPETOWN                 [Chap. X
Sir George to the Council was a message of thanks re
garding the above proposal, dated December ai, 1880.
A few days afterwards he left his seat of Government,
never, alas ! to return.
   I remember the journey from Durban to Pietermaritz-
burg. The line was then completed only to Pinetown,
where we found a transport mule-wagon to convey us
over the remaining fifty-five miles of our journey.         On
driving into the avenue of Government House, Maritz-
burg, covered with dust from our journey, we found to our
horror the lawn in front filled by guests at an afternoon
                  "
party there.        'Bout ship," said Sir Frederick Richards.
                              "
But it was impossible to 'Bout ship," so we drove right
past Government House, through the guests and away
to our hotel, where we might hide our filthy heads, and
            "
undergo       alterations and repairs."     We spent a quiet
evening at our hotel, and turned up next day at Govern
ment House in more presentable condition.          On the last
evening of our stay, there was a large official dinner
party at Government House. A few weeks later nearly
half of those at table were killed [at Majuba Hill] during
the first Boer war.
   It may be as well to introduce among these memories
Gill's impressions of Cecil Rhodes as given in later years.
   I remember a good many years ago calling upon him
in his office one day to ask whether he would be disposed
to undertake the extension of the Geodetic Survey of
South Africa through Rhodesia.           I pointed out to him
not only    the  desirability of starting a systematic survey
at an early stage in the history of the development of
his new country, but also the great scientific problem for
the measurement of the earth to which a notable contribu
tion might be made by extending a chain of triangulation
from the Cape to Cairo. I explained that it would be an
invaluable contribution not only to geodesy, but to
geography, and would form a point of departure for
connecting together all the surveys of travellers of the
territories through which that chain would pass, and
might incidentally serve also as an aid to the survey of
the great railway scheme which had then started. Mr.
                         " Yes,
Rhodes said to me,              that is a fine scheme —a fine
scheme ; but you must remember that I must first of all

1879]                  CECIL RHODES                           123
provide something in the way of roads and bridges to
facilitate communication, and when we have got so far
in that direction I will support your survey."              Then,
                         Africa,            "
turning   to  a map  of           he  said,   Look  here, a  man
requires two things to enable him to do great work in
the world; these are, first imagination, and next grit.
The French have got imagination, but we have mostly
the grit without the imagination.        Now look at the French
what they are doing. They have got some possessions
here on the West Coast of Africa, and they have got a
little spot here on the border of the Red Sea, and they have
got a man 1 just now going from west to east, and I have
got an eye upon him, and our grit will stop him getting
there.    To those who have got imagination and grit
everything will come.         Now, good-bye, I won't forget
 my promise."
   He did not forget his promise. It was largely owing to
him that, when Sir David Gill died, the completion of work
on the great arc of meridian was almost within sight.
While Lord Grey was administrator of Rhodesia things
went on well. When he left, Gill met with difficulties
in getting over which he had further insight into the
methods of Cecil Rhodes.         When he called and explained
to him his difficulties, Rhodes turned to his secretary,
saying,
           " Take a
                       telegraph form and write :         J  have
promised Sir David Gill that       I  will carry out his Arc of
Meridian. Tell them to find the money. The rest is all
red tape."
                                                   "
   After that, Rhodes turned to Gill and said, Fine thing,
             Gill replied,
                              " Finer
money."                                 thing, astronomy," to
                  answered,
                               "
which Rhodes                     Too d       d expensive."
    There was something of dogged persistence in Rhodes'
 character which appealed to David Gill ; he often visited
 the great man at Groote Schuur, and has told many things
 about his character.      He said —
    One of the most delightful things about him was his
 joy and delight in the beauty of his surroundings.            He
                      1
                         [Colonel Marchand.]

  124          FRIENDSHIPS AT CAPETOWN                [Chap. X
  would sit under his verandah at teatime looking upon
  the great mountain before him, and ask you passionately :
  "
     Is there anything more beautiful in the whole world ? "
                                                    "
      He would turn upon you suddenly and say, Did you
                                                             ' '
  ever realize what a privilege it is to be an Englishman ?
  And, if I mildly suggested that it was better to be a
  Scotsman, he would say, "Ah, man, that is the same
 thing."
     David Gill's humility, devotion to duty and purity of
 mind are shown in his correspondence by the admiration
 he bestowed upon all the men possessed of these qualities
 who crossed his path. Among those who were resident
 at the Cape in those first years there was none who could
 excite this spirit of admiration more than General Gordon.
 He accepted the command of the colonial forces in South
 Africa in 1882 ; and resigned when his negotiations with
 Masupha, the Basuto chief, were interrupted by the unfair
 attack instigated by Mr. Sauer, secretary for native affairs
 in 1882.
     " Chinese " Gordon used
                                frequently to turn up at the
  observatory for a talk with David Gill in his study, that
  fine large room where visitors were received by him and
  where he did his work and correspondence.           On one
             "           "
 occasion      the wifey   was sent off to fetch a Bible and
  Paradise Lost to enable Gordon to give a proof to Gill
 that he could locate geographically the site of the Garden
 of Eden, illustrated by rough pencil sketches which still
 exist.
     These two men had a sincere regard for each other,
 and when Gordon came to the observatory to say good-bye
before leaving the Cape, Gill accompanied him across the
little grass triangle in front of their door to give him a
last handgrip.      Then, as the hansom drove off, General
Gordon turned to George Kilgour (a kinsman of Mrs.
Gill's, who told her afterwards), saying quietly, as he
                                     "
jerked his thumb towards Gill,         Of such is the salt of
the earth."

i879]           CALEDONIAN SOCIETY                       125
    In the first year of their life at the   Cape  the Gills
firmly established themselves in the affections of their
own settlement in the observatory and also with the people
of Cape Town.     Mrs. Gill's friendliness, dignity and fun
captivated the hearts of the colony, and although Mr.
Gill was a perfect glutton for astronomical work, he held
      "
that    an astronomer is to be reckoned not merely a man
of science, but, more or less, a gregarious human being."
He was not averse from helping other human beings to
enjoy our glorious world.       When leaving England to
take up his duties at the Cape, the Astronomer Royal's
                   " Promise me, Gill, not to become a
last words were,
dress-coat astronomer."     Whether or no the advice was
needed, he followed     it,for he seldom dined out more
than two or three times a year while at the Cape.
Nevertheless, when social duties did claim him, there was
no one who could throw himself more heartily into the
fun of the thing.
   Thus in 1880 or 1881  a  Caledonian Society was started
at Cape Town, of which he became      a  member.    He used
to enjoy relating how once he assisted    a    Highland regi
ment quartered there to celebrate   a   certain St. Andrew's
night. After an excellent dinner in mess, with the time-
honoured accompaniments, they adjourned, in the small
hours of the morning, from the barracks to the castle,
headed by pipers, and began to dance reels in the centre
of the castle square, baths having been fetched from the
bedrooms to serve as bass drums to augment the sounds
of the bagpipes. These proceedings were not conducive
to the slumbers of the officers quartered in the surrounding
houses, but, to judge from the faces peeping from behind
blinds, were not without interest to the lady members of
their families. The next morning Colonel Bruce received
a  savage message from General Leicester-Smyth          (then
commanding the forces in South Africa) animadverting
strongly upon the barbarous customs of his countrymen,
and conveying an official reproof for their unseemly con

126         FRIENDSHIPS AT CAPETOWN                      [Chap.  X
duct, a reproof which was not received by the assembled
officers entirely in a spirit of correction, for an irrepressible
laugh was the chief result.
   As to the Caledonian Society, of which, later, he became
President, he always averred that their dinners were
             "                     within                 limits."
decorous,       though   jovial             reasonable
After one of these dinners, when returning home at a
reasonable and seemly hour, he encountered, in the rail
way station, Sir Thomas Upington, who had been presiding
over a dinner of a different society called the Cape Town
Highlanders; and who administered a severe reproof to
his friend in the words,
                            " Gill,
                                    you're beastly sober."
   The astronomer's keen enjoyment of all forms of sport,
in season, brought him closely in touch with every one.
He used to tell of an extraordinary scene on the occasion
of a great cricket match against an English team in 1895,
which brought all Cape Town to the Kenilworth cricket
ground, even the banks being closed for the occasion.
The game had reached an exciting stage, when telegraph
boys began to appear, one after another, delivering
messages to the Cabinet Ministers, and others, to the
effect that Jameson had crossed the border.           As he told
the story the double excitement was extraordinary.              A
man would be applauding a good hit or clever catch,
and next moment receive a telegram of vital importance.
He would gather his friends round him and gravely talk
the momentous matter over, and next moment would
turn to applaud another hit or another catch.

                         CHAPTER XI
   EARLY WORK AT THE CAPE OBSERVATORY                (1879-82)
Inadequate    equipment — Gill buys a heliometer— Elkin — Star
     distances — Sir Thomas Maclear — Comet of 1882 — Photo
     graphic star charting — Airy's retirement.
Gill's    joy in his new appointment           would have been
greater if the observatory had contained even a single
instrument of any kind fitted for carrying out the refined
measurements which he had looked forward to as his
peculiar province for advancing astronomy.
   His splendid History and Description of the Cape
Observatory has told astronomers of the wretched equip
ment. Instead of despairing, he set to work to make the
best use of the means at his disposal, and to insist upon
the necessity for first-class instruments of precision.
                                                        "
   After the first year he sent to the Admiralty his Report
of Her Majesty's Astronomer at the Cape for the year
1879-80."      This report has been lost in the Admiralty
Archives, but is frequently referred to in the corre
spondence preserved at the Admiralty.
   Sir George Airy's " Notes " upon it are preserved.
They are in Airy's handwriting, and give his strong sup
port to almost every paragraph.           Speaking of Gill's dis
covery of a difference in personal equation according as
a star transits from right to left, or from left to right,
                " The
Airy says :             inferences drawn here are remark
able, and will probably be recognized as valuable."            He
applauds the fine work on occultations.            He concludes
thus —
                                127

128       EARLY WORK AT THE CAPE                   [Chap. XI
   I have passed over many paragraphs explanatory of
what has been done under Mr. Gill's direction or by
himself personally, all bearing evidence of the vigour
with which the work of the Cape Observatory has been
carried on.    I regard the Report as honourable to Mr.
Gill.
   Sir George Airy's    world-reputation   enabled him to
adopt this helpful patronizing tone without giving the
slightest offence.  No lesser man could have done so, for
the Cape Observatory was not officially under his control.
   David Gill soon proved himself to be different from all
his predecessors in having the dogged persistence and
force of character required for overcoming official inertia
at home, and for raising the status and equipment of the
observatory to the very high level demanded by its
unique position of importance for the southern heavens.
These qualities, combined with honesty of purpose,
deference to Admiralty authority, and a cheerful devotion
to duty, ensured his ultimate success.
   His dogged persistence even in small matters became
proverbial, and in this connexion a tale of the Admiralty
may here be told.
   There was at one time a carpenter attached to the
observatory, and the distance of his house from his work
interfered with his usefulness.   In one of the reports to
the Admiralty, Gill asked that a carpenter's cottage
should be built on the grounds, and his request was
refused. Every year after this, the request was repeated
in stronger terms. At last the First Lord, or other high
                                       "
authority, exclaimed, with a laugh,      For goodness' sake
let Gill have a carpenter's cottage, or we shall never have
peace."
   Thus, in the course of twenty-eight years, he gradually
transformed the small collection of poor instruments in a
wilderness into the present magnificent observatory in
lovely grounds with instruments of precision unsurpassed
 in any quarter of the world. The history of all this, so

 i879-*2]       INADEQUATE EQUIPMENT                         129
far as it is told in his great book, need not be repeated
here.
    At this period Sir George Airy and David Gill always
 worked hand in hand, with singleness of purpose to
advance astronomy.
    On June 19, 1879, Gill wrote to Airy a very long and
amusing account of the horrible condition in which he
found the observatory, asking for his help with the
Admiralty to set things right, and explaining the steps
that he was taking to improve matters. Four weeks
later he writes —
                   To Sir George Airy
                 Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                                1879, July 14.
   Dear Sir George, — I     hope you received my last letter.
The Observatory is now reduced to a tolerable state of
cleanliness and order.     [The letter proceeds to tell what
he has been doing.]     All things go well so far as discipline
and progress of work are concerned. . . . We enjoy most
excellent health, my wife particularly is greatly benefited
by the climate. Indeed I can conceive nothing more
charming than the weather just now. The winter of
South Africa seems to me far finer than that of Egypt.
Perhaps we shall have another tale to tell in summer, or
after we have encountered some of the
                                             "                 "
                                               south-east ers
of which we have heard so much and seen so little.
   Meanwhile Mrs. Gill desires to unite with me in kindest
remembrances to yourself and all your family circle.
          Believe me, sincerely yours,         David Gill.
   Airy, in his reply of August 12, 1879, concludes with a
droll allusion to the hot weather.
   Pray give my best respects to Mrs. Gill. I am glad to
hear she enjoys the climate thus far. It is, however, hot
in summer. Sir John Herschel cooked Irish stews by
solar radiation. — I am, my dear Sir, yours very truly,
                                               G. B. Airy.
   Sir George's fears were only too soon realized. The
very first hot weather affected Mrs. Gill's health, and
afterwards was always a source of anxiety.        Her need to
     K

130       EARLY WORK AT THE CAPE                      [Chap. XI
recruit in England so soon as 1880 was a blow to her
husband.
   Nor was this the only sorrow during the early days at
the Cape.
                   To Sir George Airy
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                                1879. July 14.
   My dear Sir George, I write to tell you that Sir
                             —
Thomas Maclear died this morning.           He has been con
fined to bed since the time of my arrival in the Colony,
but it is only in the last fortnight that his friends thought
him to be dangerously ill.
   I have seen him three times. On the two last occasions
he was very weak but full of pluck, and declared that he
was quite well. The first time I saw him he was full of
anecdote and fun, and his intellect was as clear and fresh
as possible.
   He impressed me as a man who must have been full of
restless energy, a man of many sympathies, full of hearti
ness, and full of his work too. His observing books
bespeak the man. There is a scrupulous care about the
notes, a constant personal attention to every detail, and
an amount of personal labour in observing which few men
have equalled.
   One constantly finds that he has been at work till
daybreak.     He seems to have been impressed with the
idea that there was an enormous amount of work to be
done, and that he would do it — and to have forgotten
that till it was published it was not done.
   Still, there the work remains, and is available for
reduction and publication, and I hope I shall be able to
produce much valuable metal from the ore which Maclear
has collected.
   Sir Thomas is universally respected and loved in the
Colony.     We bury him on Wednesday, beside his wife in
the Observatory Grounds, near the spot where Fallowes
lies.
      To the    Earl of Crawford         and Balcarres
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                             1880, January 9.
   My dear Lord Crawford, — It        is with deep regret that
I  have read the announcement of your father's death.

 1879-82]             LORD CRAWFORD                        131
   I hope you   will allow me to express my sympathy with
you   in your great loss, for I have known you too long and
too well not to understand how keenly you will feel this
bereavement, and that no consideration of change in your
future position and life can make up to you for him that
is gone.
   I think of Lord Crawford as one of the most truly
estimable men I ever met — so kind, so gentle and so
cultured, so strong and determined in the right.
   It would be mere presumption on my part to say more ;
I hope you will forgive my saying what I have said. But
it is not always intimacy or even frequency of meeting
that causes another to influence one's life. To Lord
Crawford and to you I owe my emancipation from uncon
genial work, to his clear foresight I owe the overcoming
of countless difficulties afterwards — and thus, though our
spheres of life have been totally different, and though we
have but seldom met, I feel that Lord Crawford has much
influenced my life, and that his influence was ever for
good.
   Such are my excuses for intruding my sympathy upon
you just now. I trust you will accept both the one and
the other ; and that, after time has healed the wound you
feel so keenly now, you will long be spared to discharge
the many important duties that now devolve upon you.
            Believe me, sincerely yours,         David Gill.
   Sir David Gill's official life and work at the Cape is
naturally divided into periods by his occasional visits to
England, especially those of 1884, 1887, 1896, and 1900.1
   Naturally, during the first of these periods, from 1879
to 1884, the seeds were sown that bore fruit later. There
were plenty of plans to make, plenty of observations and
reductions to carry on from day to day.
   His favourite instrument of precision was still the
heliometer.     But a powerful telescope seemed to him
almost a necessity, if only for micrometrical measure
ments to give the distances of the stars. This was the
most difficult and refined kind of observation known
to astronomers; full of pitfalls for the unwary, and
          1 Other visits home were in 1891, 1893, 1904.

132        EARLY WORK AT THE CAPE                      [Chap. XI
therefore it seemed to him the most worthy of his
attention.
    He had never lost touch with Mr. Newall, and the
magnificent 25-inch refractor offered him on loan. And
when last at Strassburg he had found an enthusiastic
young American student who offered to join him in
measuring stellar distances.
                         To Mr. Elkin
                 Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                               1879,  June 21.
    Dear Mr. Elkin, — I ought to have written you some
time ago on the subject of the Newall telescope, in order
to give you some idea regarding it, and to enable you to
judge how far it will suit you to put into execution the
plan we talked of, viz. your coming to the Cape of Good
Hope to assist in the work to be done with that instrument
in the event of its being erected for work there. . . .
   The actual steps which are accomplished facts are —
    1. Mr. Newall permits the loan 01 the Instrument for
seven years at least, the only condition being that it shall
be under my direction.
   2. Mr. Nasmyth promises £1000 towards the expenses.
   3. Mr. Siemens promises £250.
   4. Mr. De la Rue says he is prepared not to let the
matter stop for want of money —that he will take the
responsibility of money matters on his shoulders.
   5. Mr. Spottiswoode (President of the Royal Society,
and of the British Association) promises to support an
application, with every prospect of success, for £150 per
annum from each of these bodies
             Believe me, sincerely yours,      David Gill.
    In spite of this  generous support, it was felt in England
 that the loan of an instrument was not a right solution,
 and a proposal that the Admiralty should purchase such
 an   instrument     was fully discussed.    There is a long
 report by Airy which, by request of the Admiralty, he
 wrote out. It is a strongly worded note, expressing the
 opinion that Mr. Gill ought to be supplied with such a
 telescope.   But the Admiralty came to the conclusion
 "
    that the time was not ripe for such an extension of the

  1879-82]             INSTRUMENTS                          133
 functions of the observatory as would be involved by the
 purchase of such an instrument."
    Airy was disappointed, but tried to cheer up Mr. Gill.
 He even congratulated him upon this decision, as it
 would give him more time to continue his valuable
 surveys.     Parts of the reply to his letter are quite
 interesting.
                     To Sir George Airy
                 Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                           1880, January  20.
    My dear Sir George, — In reply to your letter of
 Dec. 7, 1 am glad that you approve of my general scheme
 for the survey. . . .
    I do not at all agree with you, however, as to the good
 fortune which befell me in the failure of the 25-Inch
 Equatoreal scheme.      Our present Equatoreal is really fit
 for nothing but observing occultations of stars by the
moon and phenomena of Jupiter's satellites. . . .
    I do not propose to extend the labour engagements I
have undertaken, detailed by you in your letter of
 December 7. I only think that the work under heads
2 and 3 should be executed with good tools and not with
 a practically obsolete instrument.      I do not, however,
 propose to push the matter of the equatoreal till I have
been able to show that we really want it, and that we are
doing good work that deserves encouragement, and then
 I hope to get an instrument worthy of the observatory
 and of the situation. . . .
    With kindest regards to your family circle, in which
Mrs. Gill desires to join me,
            Believe me, sincerely yours,      David Gill.
    Before leaving England, however, he had prepared the
way for measuring some star distances, using the old
instrument which had served him so well in the past, as
shown in the following letter of earlier date.
                   To Sir George Airy
                 Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                            1879, October 13.
    Dear Sir George, — By the    same mail with this I have
written to the Secretary to the Admiralty requesting that

134       EARLY WORK AT THE CAPE                     [Chap. XI
their Lordships may be good enough to provide transport
for my Heliometer to the Cape.
   I purchased the Heliometer part proper from Lord
Lindsay, and have had a very firm and satisfactory
Equatoreal mounting made for it by Grubb of Dublin, at
my own expense, with clockwork complete. I propose
to erect the Instrument in place of the old, and now de
cayed, 3-inch Equatoreal, and devote it chiefly to parallax
investigations.    From the experience I have had in the
use of the Instrument,       and the opportunities in the
Southern Hemisphere, I think very valuable results might
be obtained.
   I have no doubt the matter will be referred to you, and
I hope you will kindly support my proposal.
   All is going well. I will write you soon on the progress
we are making.
   With kindest regards to yourself and your family circle,
in which Mrs. Gill unites with me,
            Believe me, sincerely yours,      David Gill.
   Accordingly, the dearly loved heliometer arrived in
December 1880 ; and, the next month, his young friend
Elkin, the Strassburg student, paid him a visit lasting
till May 1883, two years and four months. Thus began
the first systematic attack ever undertaken upon star
distances ; and the splendid results obtained by Gill and
Elkin are well known to all astronomers.
   The history of astronomy is full of examples where
 fortune has seemed to favour the brave, or rather where
success has bred success ; where at least it might be said
that a piece of luck came to those who deserved it. Thus
did Sir William Herschel discover the orbital motions of
double stars when attempting to measure their distances ;
and Bradley the constant of aberration.          The society
 founded to search for a planet between Mars and Jupiter
 had no success, but Piazzi, when laboriously charting the
 stars in 1801, accidentally discovered the first minor
 planet.
    So also, during  Mr. Gill's first period (1879-84) at the
 Cape, an event occurred wliich enabled him to originate

1879-82]             COMET OF         1882                 135
a new kind of astronomical observation, the systematic
charting and cataloguing of the stellar heavens by aid of
photography.
    In         brilliant comet appeared in the southern
          1882 a
heavens —  so brilliant as to be seen in full sunlight, even
when it seemed to reach the sun's edge.        While it was
still a magnificent spectacle in the hours before dawn,
wishing his friends in England to share his joy, the idea
occurred to him to strap an ordinary portrait camera to
the clock-driven equatoreal.    This enabled him to follow
 the comet and to expose the plate for hours, always
 keeping the cross-wires of the telescope on the comet's
 head.    Sometimes also he kept them always on one of
 the stars.
    The results were a revelation to him and to all who
 afterwards saw the photographs.        In his History, etc.,
he has told how he was immediately convinced of the
 possibility of thus constructing star maps on any required
scale, down to any required order of magnitude.          The
 large field, giving sharp definition, led him to expect
better work from the doublet portrait lens than from a
telescope.    He immediately wrote to Dallmeyer for a
larger lens, to test the idea, and found it gave fine results.
He obtained a photographer from England by a grant
from the Royal Society, and, assisted by funds from
Mr. Nasmyth and from his own pocket, set up an efficient
apparatus to photograph and to catalogue all southern
stars down to the o.£ magnitude.       Thus he was able to
extend the most useful existing star-catalogue-of-identifi-
cation, viz. the Bonn Durchmusterung of Argelander and
Schonfeldf, right on to the South Pole, in the
                                                      "
                                                        Cape
                                  "
Photographic Durchmusterung          (C. P. D.).
   The progress of this has been fully told in other publica
tions. Isolated photographs of star groups had, before
1882, been taken by Rutherford, though it was later that
Bauer and others measured them        (e. to find the parallax
                                            g.
of    Cassiopeiae).
    ft.              Gould, too, had made isolated star

  136        EARLY WORK AT THE CAPE                     [Chap. XI
  pictures at Cordova.     Gill was the first to use photography
  for star charting.
     Gill's comet picture with its multitude of stars con
 vinced the brothers Henry of Paris Observatory that
 their catalogue of zodiacal stars could best be completed
 by photography.        They then constructed the first of
 those 13-inch astrographic telescopes which have been
 used all over the world for the International Carte du
 Ciel, started by Admiral Mouchez, with the help of Gill
 and the brothers Henry, at the Congress of Paris in
 1887.
    These were some of the results of Gill's accidental
 discovery.    It also led Dr. Barnard at the Lick Observa
 tory to strap a portrait camera to the equatoreal, and,
 by eye-correction of the driving-clock, to produce, with
 the most exhausting patience, those marvellous pictures
 of the Milky Way which have added so much to our
knowledge.
    At about this date, in 1881, British astronomy, and
the Cape Observatory, suffered a terrible loss by the
                 "
retirement of dear old Airy
                                   "
                                     (as Otto Struve and other
 intimates spoke of him in their letters) from the post of
Astronomer Royal. There were no young men in England
of the Airy and Adams type. Sir William Huggins has
truly remarked (see p. 49) that such young men, who
might have continued the succession of these earnest,
unselfish devotees to astronomy of precision, had wan
dered into the more promising realms of physical research.
All the younger British astronomers admitted that among
themselves there had as yet appeared no Halley or
Bradley or Airy to represent British astronomy at
Greenwich.      Still, astronomers hoped that Airy's organ
ized and systematic methods might still suffice to main
tain something of the continuity of observation and
reduction which was an outstanding characteristic of
Greenwich Observatory.
    Mr. Gill had not yet established his exceptional capacity

1879-82]          AIRY'S RETIREMENT                       137
for conducting the routine of an observatory, and his
present duty clearly held him at the Cape.          The post
was given to Sir George Airy's chief assistant, Mr.
W. H. M. Christie.
   Meanwhile, Airy's interest in the labours of his astro
nomical friends continued unabated ; and those who
retain affection for his memory will enjoy, in the following
letter, traces of the inner man that were not shown to the
world at large.
                  From Sir George Airy
                    The White House, Croom's Hill,
                                Greenwich Park, S.E.,
                                              1883,  June 2.
   My dear Sir, — Thank you much for the photographs
of the Comet b of 1882, which reached me in a single
packet two or three days ago — having been preceded by
one enclosed in a Cape publication.
   I am surprised at the accuracy of the photographs,
with the long exposure which I understand you to
have given. For, first, the sidereal objects, the clock-
movement must have been exceedingly accurate. And,
secondly, the comet, it must have been almost stationary
in the heavens (I have not looked to numbers connected
with the comet's place), as your times of exposure ex
tended from 30 m. to 1 h. 50 m. and 2 h. 20 m. I saw
the tail of Donati's Comet sweep across Arcturus. I
have no record of the time occupied, but it was certainly
less than some of these.
   I shall be glad at all times to hear of your daily pro
ceedings, private and official.   I see all that appears in
the Monthly Notices and in the Observatory.         But I do
not go to London or into society ; and even when friends
call on me, my increasing deafness deprives me of much
that I might be supposed to receive from them. It had
been my wish to retire from the Observatory in the
summer of 1880, but the old Transit of Venus was still
hanging over me. My part was cleared off in the summer
of 1881, and then I took my opportunity.        It was time
to do so, for my powers of endurance of official work
were sensibly diminishing.    Moreover, my retirement has
enabled me to take up some private astronomy from

 138      EARLY WORK AT THE CAPE                    [Chap.  XI
which I had long been blocked out. And it was curious
that after looking at numerous houses on all sides of
London, I at last found the most convenient of all (for
my wants) in this house, the very nearest of all to the
Observatory, and with a gate of the Park immediately
opposite, at a distance of about five yards, to one of my
doors.
   The work of this Transit of Venus [1882] will be a trifle
compared with that of 1874. I was obliged then to fix
upon dreadfully almost unapproachable places with no
means for longitude except the most laborious.
   I beg you to offer my sincere respect to Mrs. Gill. I
and my daughters will be glad to hear of her. — I am, my
dear Sir, yours very truly,                    G. B. Airy.
   David Gill, Esqre.
   It may be well, at this stage, to forestall events and to
insert a selection of a few letters from those retained by
Sir George, placed at the disposal of the present writer
by his son, Mr. Wilfrid Airy.
                   To Sir George Airy
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                          1883, December 18.
   My dear Sir George, —        ...  I  have now after four
years' work arrived at a pretty clear notion of what I can
accomplish, and of what I want.       [Here follow details of
a proposed systematic research on the parallax of stars
down to the fifth magnitude, sixteen of each magnitude-
interval, and of sixteen stars of large proper motion.]
         ******
   I am willing to give up my rest at night for the next
ten or twelve years for this work (and to do the work with
my own hands) if Government will give me the necessary
means — a 7-Inch Heliometer. . . .
                       To the    Same
                             26 Union Place, Aberdeen,
                                             1884, August 1.
   My dear Sir George, — To-morrow we leave                for
London— sailing thence on Aug. 20 for the Cape.
   Herewith   I  send you photograph      of my portrait —

                                     [To faepage 13S.
SIR GEORGE BIDDELL AIRY ASTRONOMER ROYAL.


1879-82]            SIR GEORGE AIRY                         139
painted by my friend Sir George Reid — and especially
beg that you will remark the bundle of papers on the
table — duly punched with your machine, and duly bound
with boot-laces after your manner.1        We hope to have
the pleasure of seeing you again before we sail.
  Our friend Christie has probably told you that the
Admiralty has granted me £2700 for a new Heliometer
and its observatory. . . .
  This correspondence with Airy may well conclude with
a much later letter.
                    To Sir George Airy
                 (on his ninetieth birthday)
                                      6 PORCHESTER GATE,
                                                1891, July 25.
  My dear Sir George, — I must write           a word of fare
well, to say once again how deeply my wife and I regret
that we cannot be with your birthday party to-day.
   Our leave has expired, and as your friends assemble
we shall be sailing for the Cape.      But we shall be with
you in spirit, and drink on board a hearty toast to your
continued health and happiness — coupled with the wish
that you may see as many happy returns of yr birthday
as you and yours desire.
   In grateful remembrance of our always happy relations
both private and official, and with love and honour,
Believe me, always sincerely yours,            David Gill.
  1
    [This portrait is reproduced in the frontispiece. Later oil-
paintings of Sir David Gill are in the Royal Society (by Mr.
George Henry)     and in the Russian Imperial Observatory,
Pulkowa.]

                       CHAPTER         XII
                  CORRESPONDENCE       (1883-4)
Elkin — Survey — Sir William Morris — Gordon Duff —Theatricals
     — Stellar parallax — Christie — Simon     Newcomb   — Astro
     nomical ideals.
In   the meantime the Gills had welcomed astronomers
en route for their stations to observe the Transit of Venus
on December 6, 1882. Among these was Professor
Newcomb from Washington, U.S.A., destined to become
the foremost of theoretical astronomers. The renewed
intercourse of these two representatives of astronomy, on
its theoretical and practical sides respectively, was of
great value to the science.       It increased their intimacy.
Each saw what great help he could get from the other.
Gill always obtained much useful information from
Newcomb about the progress of his planetary tables,
etc., while he undertook in return to supply him with
planetary data and lunar occultations whose accuracy
would be the highest possible. From this date onwards
the correspondence between these two reached formidable
dimensions.
   Elkin left the Cape of Good Hope in May 1883, having
helped Mr. Gill in splendid work on stellar parallaxes
with the heliometer, and for a time the house seemed to
be deserted.    He had been such a welcome guest that
his presence was sadly missed.
                       To Mr. Elkin
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                                  1883, June 5.
   My dear Elkin, — It      is too bad    that  I have allowed
two mails to pass without writing you.         Not that I have
                               140

1883-4]                     ELKIN                            141
not thought of you — I have missed you badly— as I
wrote Gould, it was like having a tooth drawn, and I
would gladly give my soundest grinder to see you opposite
me as I write.
   I duly received yr welcome telegram from Madeira. —
My wife and I had been at a Shakespere reading at Mrs.
Dyce's, and when we came home I turned into my room
                                                      "
for something, when I heard excited sounds — David —
what's this? — a letter! — David, it's from Madeira!"
Many were the blessings showered on your head. We
are now anxiously expecting your news in detail from
St. Helena.
    Captain Morris and the party of R. Engineers come
on Wednesday or Thursday by the Pretoria.            Morris will
be here for a few weeks making necessary arrangements
with me and doing a little practical astronomy — and then
 I think I shall go up to Natal and start the Base Line —
the preliminary surveys being meanwhile made by Lieut.
Laffan and his men.
    We are making great preparations for a photographic
 campaign. The Photo house is being put in fine order. . . .
    My wife is much better and I hope to take her to
 Natal with me for a change.        Everybody desires to be
 remembered to you.       My wife sends her love, and has
 written to y| Mother — letter enclosed.
    I am waiting very anxiously for all your news.
    Believe me, dear Elkin, Always yr Sincere friend,
                                                David Gill.
                         To Mr. Elkin
                                               1883, August 12.
    My dear Elkin, — I was delighted on my return from
 Natal a fortnight ago to find your long and welcome
 letter waiting me. I will tell you of my own doings
 before going into the matters suggested by your letter.
    Capt. Morris and his wife arrived here about nine weeks
 ago.    They spent a fortnight with us. Morris is a very
 fine fellow, earnest, energetic, and full of enthusiasm.
  He brought out the 18-inch Alt. Az. for the survey, of
  which you have seen the photograph. It is truly a splendid
 instrument.   . . . The watch telescope is a powerful adjunct.

  142                 CORRESPONDENCE                     [Chap. XII
  . . . Every evening so soon as it was dark I took a set
  of the faint a Centauri pair with the Heliometer, Morris
  smoking and booking. Then we dined, and then went off
  to the Theodolite and observed azimuths for practice till
  ten or eleven o'clock. Then a smoke, then off to the
  Heliometer for another set of the faint a Centauri's.
  I send you the results. We had a good deal of cloudy
  weather, but I lost no chance.        After a fortnight of this
  we started for Natal, had a beautiful passage and arrived
  safely. Then we had a busy week or ten days in Durban,
  getting tripods made for the Base Apparatus, and a
  thousand and one odds and ends together. Then off to
  Pietermaritzburg.      There we had to buy wagons, get
  tents  made,   buy   horses,  oxen, and supplies of all kinds,
  and start on the definitive selection of the base. We got
  a capital z\ mile base and an almost theoretically
  perfect series of stations for extending to the first 30
  mile side. We have also with a map, and with local
 enquiries and information from the Surveyor General's
 office, practically planned the triangulation of Natal, and
  have sent a young fellow (son of Colonel Hassard) with
 a sapper, to test finally whether all the necessary stations
  are mutually visible.
     It does not take long to tell this, but it took a fortnight
 of very hard work to do it.
     Then we got the Camp in order, got out the Base
 Apparatus, set up a trial line, and began the drill for
 working the Base Apparatus.           We got this all into good
 working order, and I kept them busy pegging and clearing
 the line, laying down the terminals and preparing for real
 measurements.       I could not afford to stay longer, but I
 feel sure I left all in good hands and with every prospect
 of a successful issue. Morris will come here with the
 Bars in December when we shall compare them with the
 standard Bars, and I shall then take home one of the
 standards for comparison in England.
    We lived a week at an hotel, then my wife went to the
 Gordon Duffs 1 for a week, a visit she immensely enjoyed,
 and for the remaining fortnight we had our headquarters
 at Government House, and found Sir Henry Bulwer a
 very kind host. Then we spent a couple of days with
   1  Mrs. Duff was a very dear friend of Mrs. Gill's. Her husband
is an Aberdeenshire laird.     They were in Natal for Mrs. Duff's
health.

1883-4]           MRS. GORDON DUFF                         143
the Bayntons at Durban.       Neison has really a charming
little observatory, and his equatoreal after some little
alterations is really a very nice instrument. . . .
    We had a most abominable passage back, my wife
more or less sick for five days, excepting a few hours on
shore at Port Elizabeth. On the whole, however, my
wife is greatly benefited by her trip, and I am in every
way satisfied with it. By the bye, she wrote you last
mail. I only wish to add my thanks to hers for all your
great kindness to Bessie [his sister-in-law], kindness we
shall never forget.
    I am sorry that you did not see Christie or Hind. . . .
I am very glad you have made some more London astro
nomical friends, and hope to have your opinion of the
Oxford Heliometer and of Common's telescope. . . .
    Give my kind remembrances to your Mother and
Believe me Always your sincere friend,        David Gill.
             To Mrs. Gordon Duff, in Natal
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                         1883, September 17.
    My dear Mrs. Duff, — Not     a mail has passed since my
return to the Cape without creating the intention to
write you. Now for Mrs. Duff — says inclination — yes,
says duty, but just clear off this bit of work first.     But
bits of astronomical work have a universal habit of
taking more time than the most unsanguine man expects,
and so before that special bit of work is done— another
English mail arrives, and the Natal mail is off, and
                                         "     "
Mrs. Duff's letter waits for the next      bit with a like
result.
    In fact these good intentions, with which a very
unmentionable place is supposed to be paved, have been
very prevalent with me of late — and I should think that
Auld Clootie's hottest corner is in pretty good travelling
order within the past six weeks from my work alone.
But this time the bit of work shall wait.
   What a bright happy visit we had with you ! — My
little wife has never been so well since October '79 — those
happy quiet evenings with you we shall not forget for
many a day.

144                  CORRESPONDENCE                 Chap.  XII
   I   often picture you and your sister together — for I
seem to know Mrs. Graham Smith from her letters — I
wonder if I do ? — Something very earnest about her like
Dorothea in Middlemarch, and something of the pithy
sparkling character of Jane Carlyle.       Have you read the
latter's letters ? — if not, do so.
   Just now I am observing from 7 to 9 in the evening
and 3 to 5 in the morning, so at 9 o'clock my long pipe
is filled and my wine reads these letters to me. Oh the
sparkle and fun of them when all is well — the marrow-
full, earnest stuff — the brilliant description — and, shall
I say it? the delightful touch of occasional deviltry
sometimes — how you and yr sister w1 enjoy them
together !
   And what are you doing?              How finds yr sister,
Natal? Can      her   deft brush  find anything to do, and is
there much to tell in her vigorous charming way to those
at home ? Above all, I hope that yr next news of yrself
will be bright as that you have sent.
   For ourselves — Wifie is not.quite so well — the gain from
Natal is not lost, but she has now and then a good deal
of pain. . . .
   By the bye, yr sister goes in for Astronomy, so she will
be interested to hear that Sirius is not so far off as she
has been taught to suppose; that it has a parallax of
o"-38
       — in other words that light which takes 8 minutes
to come from the sun, would reach Sirius in only 9 years —
instead of 30 years as I suppose she has read.
   Baron Hubner lunched here one day. When we spoke
    "           "
                   he held up his hands and said, " Aaahhh
of     you two
              "—                             "    "
charrrming         with a deep inspired        Ah    that no
letters can convey, and an amount of R that no Aber-
donian could rival. I met him also at dinner at Mrs.
Koopman's. . . .
   Now my cigar and my paper are done. My wifie sends
her love — and I kiss my hand as of old.
   Believe me Yr sincere friend,               David Gill.
   Shortly before the astronomer went to England on his
first furlough, in January 1884, he had staying with him
the head of his Natal survey, Captain (now Colonel Sir
William) Morris, R.E. His great appreciation of the
man, apart from his professional capacity, can best be

 1883-4]           SIR WILLIAM MORRIS                     145
understood by extracts from a letter, dated January 14,
 1884, to Mr. Gordon Duff.
    Morris has been with us for the past month.       He is a
 very splendid   fellow — as high souled, pure minded  a man
 as I ever met full of work and full of earnestness, and
                 —
 fun too.
    I must not omit to tell you that my wife sends Mrs.
 Carlyle's letters by Morris— and do not omit to address
            "
 Morris as     Prince Geraint." Amongst all our work we
 found time for one evening's fooling in the way of
 "            "
   Tableaux      at Mrs. Trimen's (newly married wife of
 Trimen, Curator of Museum).
    Morris was Geraint, Miss Ebden Enid, and I the Count
 Doorm.
    Geraint is just recovering from his faint, I trying to
force Enid to drink, Geraint observes my brutality and
is on the point of springing up to chop off my head —
retainers, men and women, jeering at Enid. Morris was
 coaxed by Mrs. Trimen, Miss Ebden and my wife — till
 driven by despair he said in a weak moment,
                                                   " Do with
 me as you please."        Whereupon the ladies set about
 equipping   him   in scale armour and red hose.     This re
                             —
 duced Morris to despair he went about deploring his
         "                                                  "
 fate — Fancy me in scaly armour and red hose !
They let him off the scaly armour, but draped him in a
doublet and tunic, retaining the red hose, and he cer
tainly made a very fair appearance— he is as good-looking
as he is good. Our
                         "           "
                           Spectacle    was the first and so
we clothed ourselves in more conventional garments and
watched two other scenes from Tennyson and four
Tableaux from the Odyssey, " Penelope and her sisters —
                                                         "
and the return of Ulysses. All very nice, but to my
mind the fun of the fair was all beforehand —the ridicu
lous figures of half draped early Britons and classic ladies
—beards suitable and unsuitable — coming off and going
away — and specially of a gallant Captain who came to
rehearsal and brought his classic tunic but forgot his
drawers — was asked to draw down a window, and in his
hurry to oblige jumped on the sill, suddenly remembered
his missing garment and the probable consequences,

 146                   CORRESPONDENCE                   [Chap.  XII
 blushed scarlet, jumped down and rushed from the
 room.
    But Morris and his performances here, with his red
 hose, and his tunic turned into a skirt, doing a ballet
                                             "     "
 whenever any attempt was made to              fit    him, make
 me still roar with laughter when I think of it.
    What a lot of rubbish to tell you ! It's bed time now,
 Good-night.
    Naturally enough, during this first period of residence
 at the Cape (1879-84) his letters to friends at home were
 full of his astronomical work, and were much taken up
 with the parallax of the stars.
                       To Mr. E. B. Knobel
                   Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                                 1882, April 17.
    My dear Knobel, — Many thanks for your kind letter
of Feb. 18 and its cordial congratulations.
    I need not tell you that I am much gratified by re
ceiving the Gold Medal, and I like it so much that I mean
to try and win another.
    Now let me congratulate you with all my heart on your
election as a Secretary of the Society.1 . . .
    I am busy organizing the observations 2 of Victoria
and Sappho in July, Aug* and Sept. . . .
    We are busy reducing the longitude work.          It is a long
job as the places of the Time Stars had all to be deter
mined, as well as those of the Circumpolar Stars.
    I have to-day sent to press a Catalogue of Circumpolar
Stars (88 in number) which I propose to issue in a fort
night for the use of the Transit of Venus observers in the
Southern Hemisphere.
    Probably the most generally interesting researches
which I have that are approaching completion are those
on the parallax of some Southern Stars.         Elkin has com
puted his observations of Sirius, which go to show that
   1
      [Royal Astronomical Society, of which Mr. Knobel was
Secretary for ten years and afterwards President twice.]
   2
     These came to no good end owing to defects in instruments
in the northern hemisphere with which comparisons were to be
made.     Cf. letter to Kapteyn, November 20, 1893.

  1883-4]         STELLAR PARALLAXES                        147
 the generally accepted parallax of this star is much too
 small, and that the mass of Sirius (from Auwers' elements
 of its orbit as a double star combined with the parallax
 found by Elkin) is really less than that of the Sun.
     My own researches on the same parallax, with different
 comparison stars, will not be concluded till the beginning
 of next year. . . .
    The whole of Elkin 's work combined with mine is
 greater in extent than all the existing parallax deter
 minations put together. Every clear night we manage
 to get about 4 hours' work each, so that even at
 Ascension the old Heliometer never had such hard work
 before.
          ******
    Mrs. Gill is better than she was when in England, tho'
 still an invalid, and unable for more than a quiet walk
 through the Observatory grounds.
    Believe me, sincerely y™,                 David Gill.
                 To Mr. W. H. M. Christie
               Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                            1882, October 25.
    My dear Christie, — I do hope you are well.         I have
been wondering much at not hearing from you. Nothing
in the shape of news from you since your marriage !           I
was particularly anxious to hear from you about the
R.S. We are very busy here about the Transit. Perry
and Sidgreaves are off to Madagascar. They were put in
quarantine at Durban, biit      I had heliostat flashes sent
to them by Mr. Pett at Durban which have answered
capitally. . . .
    I expect Newcomb to-day or to-morrow, and Marth in
a week.
    We have of course been busy with the Great Comet,
and Finlay and Elkin have got a great number of ob
servations.    I could not do much till after the Sappho
observations were over, which tied my hands till Oct. 18.
I send you, however, some photos which I got Oct. 1q,
20 and 21. . . .

         ******
148               CORRESPONDENCE                  [Chap.  XII
   I see that Barnard's Comet is in my hunting grounds
now.
But with two comets, four Transit of Venus stations,
          ******
with which I shall have more or less to do, my own
Heliometer stellar parallax work, and normal observatory
work, and my two chief assistants gone and one an
invalid — my days will not be idle till the end of the year.
   I am happy to say that my wife has been much better
during the past fortnight — and this makes hard work
very easy.
   What a pity you did not get my telegram of Sept. 9 ! ! !
You would probably have seen the transit of the Comet,
or at least it would have been seen in America nearly at
noon with big telescopes.
   My wife joins me in kind regards to Mrs. C. and y'self.
   Always sincerely Y",                      David Gill.
   As we approach the end of Gill's first period of five
years' continuous residence in South Africa, it must be
noticed that these years influenced him a great deal, by
giving scope to his character, but most of all by the
growing friendships with those men in his own line whom
he most respected, friendships which commenced with
mutual esteem, but deepened into affectionate regard.
   This fullness of life in regard to the master impulse of
his being, his love for astronomy, reached a climax at
the time of the transit of Venus in 1882, when David
Gill and Simon Newcomb first became intimately asso
ciated together, and when each found in the other the
counterpart of his own labours. They had first met at
Hamburg, in 1873.        Newcomb had, even by this time,
reached almost the highest position among the theo
retical astronomers of the world; and, in the matter
of uncompromising exactitude of observation, he found
 in Gill the complement to his own activities.       Gill, on
 the other hand, found in Newcomb the man who had
 himself done so much for existing problems in astronomy

1 883-4]            SIMON NEWCOMB                         149
that he could indicate the directions in which an observer
of acknowledged accuracy could best do service to
astronomy.
   The voluminous correspondence        between these two
men on varied problems indicates how much we owe to
their joint interests; and it is delightful to recognize
their frequent admixture of fun and camaraderie with
pure science.
   In this connexion may be quoted the words of New-
comb's daughter, Dr. Anita Newcomb McGee, written in
1915-
   I wish I could tell you how very warm was the friend
ship between these two, and with what appreciation Sir
David was always spoken of. I am sure no one was
dearer to my father personally, besides their scientific
ties.
   Unfortunately, there is not space in this volume to treat
fully of the great astronomical problems discussed in Gill's
correspondence with Newcomb and many others.
   When Newcomb went to the Cape in 1882 he left his
daughter Anita in England. She wrote her schoolgirl
impressions to him, and these were talked over with
much amusement by the two friends at the Cape.          They
always spoke of her as the
                                 " F. B.,"             " Fair
                                            meaning
Barbarian," which was the title of a story by Mrs. Hodgson
Burnett, then just published, about an American girl in
England, where her English relatives were amazed by
her original and independent proceedings. This will
explain a reference in the following —
                  To Professor Newcomb
          ******
              Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                              1883, May 23.
   My dear Newcomb, — It has greatly delighted me to
receive your welcome letter of the 26th April.
   The principal news since you left is that my good friend
Elkin left  10 days ago.  I miss him more than I dare well

 150                CORRESPONDENCE                       [Chap.  XII
 say; both my wife and         I   do so.   He had become part
 and parcel of us, always busy, always ready to discuss
 or argue any point, always genial and friendly.
   I
          ******
     am very busy preparing for a trip home to England
early next year.
   Alas for the F. B. — I had hoped one day to look upon
 her — but the F. B. is no more — at least F still but not B—
 a pretty, proper, particular young lady, with a deport
 ment formed on the papa-prunes-prism principle.                  Oh
man ! if you had only brought her to the Cape ! but           —
you must be wrong, I believe in my heart she is as fresh
and natural, as bonny and true —and the apple of your
         ******
eye — as she was before.           [She had evidently adapted
herself to the country, when left in England, to a degree
which led to comment on her father's part, to which this
is a reply.]
   We saw the article Cetewayo in Harper.               It did not
        " facetious article in an American                      "
need a                                            newspaper       to
                                                      "
indicate the author. The old savage is being eaten up,"
however, in Zululand.            [Professor Newcomb visited
Cetewayo    while  both  were      at Cape Town.]
   My wife joins me in kindest remembrances, not only to
you, but to Mrs. Newcomb and the F, quondam B, — both
of whom we seem to know.
   Always sincerely yours,                        David Gill.
                  To Professor Newcomb
                                              1883, December 16.
   My dear Newcomb,          .   .  . — Have you    seen Nyren's
paper on     the  constant of aberration ? I regard the
agreement of the results by the three different instru
ments as the greatest testimony to the practical genius
of old Struve, the designer of those instruments, and a
proof of the perfect manner in which the tradition of
accuracy and thoroughness which he established has been
preserved at Pulkowa.       It is a fact, I am certain, that
in Meridian Astronomy we are retrograding. Put the
observations at Greenwich or Paris or Washington or
the Cape or anywhere else to the same test — and you

                         [To face page 150.
PROFESSOR SIMON XEWCOMB.


1883-4]                      NEWCOMB                           151
will find them wanting. But the old Pulkowa observa
tions, equally with the new, stand those tests which we
cannot successfully apply to our modern huge instrument-,
small accidental-, big systematical-error observations of
the present day.
   I wish they would let me put up a new Fundamental
Meridian Observatory here —instead of this unwieldy,
non-reversible, non-testable giant.           For a differential
instrument, I could not wish a better Transit Circle — but
it is playing with Fundamental work to attempt it with
such a tool.      The fact of the matter is that laziness is at
the bottom of modern degeneration in meridian observa
tion.    It is such a nice easy thing to turn loose some
astronomical young gentlemen who are willing for a
consideration and a Government appointment to devote
a few hours twice a week to making what they are pleased
 to call observations with a huge machine which the rough
est handling cannot disturb, whilst the great chief eats his
 dinner in a dress coat, smokes his cigar and goes to bed. In
 that way and by much printing a very great show can be
 made, but how much progress in Fundamental Astronomy ?
    But I am losing my temper on paper, because I cannot
 get all things as I would wish them.          Who does ? — Wait
 a bit —  yes, wait and it will come all right.         Meanwhile
 one grows old, and I suppose by the time my energy and
 strength are gone, I shall have all things as I should wish
 them. Perhaps then I shall have another Elkin beside
 me — some one who will work with the same devotion
 and love of truth for truth's sake.         Who knows ? That
 would be a consolation.
    Forgive my Sunday afternoon grumble, and
    Believe me, Always sincerely yours,            David Gill.
    There was no one ever lived who was so anxious to
 have his conclusions tested by logical argument as David
  Gill. He desired only to get at the truth. He would
                                                         "
 start a subject with Newcomb and then say,                There is
 where I differ with you. Now you give me your reply,
 and we'll have a scrap !
                                  " He wrote to Newcomb in
  1890, in such a case —
           " Let's first shake hands before we box,
             Then give each other friendly knocks.
             With all the love and kindness of a brother."

152               CORRESPONDENCE               [Chap. XII
   So he held his views against his friend in such ques
tions as the Transits of Venus, the last decimal place in
the mass of Jupiter or the moon, or in the constant of
aberration, and many other vital points in gravitational
theory, in discussing which he — and his opponent too, as
he knew full well — desired only to have his own faults
exposed and the truth revealed.

                          CHAPTER       XIII
                  FIRST VISIT TO ENGLAND     (1884)
A holiday ? — LL.D., Edinburgh —Admiralty and Treasury sanction
       purchase   of new heliometer —Proposed Board of Visitors —
       The Gills' homecomings to the Cape— Christmas Day with
       the staff.
For      a long time   Mr. Gill had been looking forward to his
visit, early in 1884, to Europe.          He had prepared for
publication a vast amount of his own work as well as the
reduction of some of Maclear's observations of old date,
and he desired to see these results through the press.
    He was also, now as ever, hard at work in trying to
improve the position of his staff, and in this connexion he
wanted to introduce some necessary reforms, involving
money grants, which could best be explained by personal
interviews.        But most of all, seeing his way to obtain
valuable results if he could acquire a superior heliometer
to the details of which he had devoted much thought
and experience, he was determined to push his project
through.        Already, his earnest efforts in the United
States of America had been rewarded ; and had assisted
his friend Elkin to obtain a powerful heliometer at
Yale. He intended now to apply to the Admiralty for
such an instrument to replace his own 4-inch heliometer
with which he had proved the incomparable accuracy of
his own observations.
                     To Professor Newcomb
                    Royal Astronomical Society, London,
                                                  1884, May  10.
    My dear Newcomb, — I came to England for a holiday
and     I  have never been so hard worked in the whole of my
 life.   .  . .
                                  153

154          FIRST VISIT TO ENGLAND                 [Chap. XIII
   I have had four distinct and different matters to put
before the Admiralty.
     £1200,    for repair and maintenance of buildings,
        new house for carpenter and record room, above
        last or any other year's estimates.
      £450 for printing.
     £400 a year to raise pay of assistants.
     £2700 new heliometer and observatory.
   The first two of these I have got, the two second have
gone up to the Treasury with the strongest recommenda
tion of the Admiralty — but my Lords delay their reply,
and this involves labour ahead.           I suppose you have
sufficient   official  experience   to   understand   the hard
labour and heart-breaking loss of time which such a
matter involves.       For fifty years my predecessors have
allowed matters to jog along, and naturally enough the
          ******
Admiralty cannot understand why all this fuss and demand
should arise, and I have had a very uphill fight, though
I must say that my friend Christie has been a friend
indeed, and has backed me up most thoroughly.
   Then there has been the printing of Elkin's and my
paper on the Parallax of Stars, and above all, the claims
on my time of kind relatives and friends who think that
the only object of a man coming to England must be to
dine or to lunch, to shoot or to fish, to breakfast or to
dance, to hunt or to play tennis — and although I have
escaped much I have enjoyed some and suffered many
of these things.
   In addition to all this, I have been fool enough to
engage in two distinct and separate pieces of peacocking —
I have had my portrait painted,1 and I have attended
the Tercentenary Festival of the Edinburgh University,
have worn a red gown and a velvet cap and so been for
the second time transformed into a Doctor of Laws —
what kind of laws I am learned in I have yet to ascertain.
   Now the portrait I forgive myself for, because of the
great pleasure it has given my little wife. I carried it
yesterday to her room where she has been for six weeks
under Dr. Playfair's charge, and she will have it beside
                  1
                    [By Sir George Reid, P.R.S.A.]

i884]               LL.D., EDINBURGH                       155
her for another week —when she will emerge from her
retreat, I hope and believe stronger and better than she
has been for some years.          But the portrait absorbed
many a forenoon that should have been given to other
work. The Edinburgh vanities cost me the loss of a
visit to Pulkowa, and very nearly the gain of an attack
of bilious fever.    Still, the gathering was a very remark
able one — a red letter week in one's life that I should
have been sorry to lose.
    By the way — I understand that Piazzi Smyth was
expected to name two astronomers to be invited to attend
the Tercentenary Meeting and receive degrees . . . one
for Theoretical and one for Practical Astronomy.           He
gave y* name and mine. The Senatus quite concurred
but found that there was no time to write and get           y
 reply and presence, and it had been resolved only to
confer degrees on those who were present — but I under
stand that the Hon. Degree will be conferred on you
afterwards.
   After Edinburgh I went to Hamburg where I saw the
mounting of the 30-inch O.G. for Pulkowa.            It is the
most rigid German mounting I have seen, and very con
veniently arranged. I also went into great detail with
 Repsolds about my proposed new Heliometer — and as to
Meridian Instruments of the future.        [I have a good deal
to say on that subject, but am waiting for my time.
You will see how very sharply dear old Sir George has
          ******
risen (in the May Observatory) to defend the Cape and
Greenwich Transit Circles.] 1 I then visited Berlin,
Potsdam, Bonn, Strassburg and Paris.             Of all these
visits I might write pages to you, but must pull up.
   Is there any chance of our meeting yr wife or the F. B.
if so let me know. I wd go a long way to have the pleasure
of meeting either one or the other.       My wife has greatly
benefited by her recent course of medical treatment —
and I hope she will join me in all things, as of old, in
about a week. — Ever thine,                    David Gill.
   The energy with which Gill used to get the better
of official inertia and red tape gained the admiration of
   1
     These square brackets [ ] are in the original letter. On
every other occasion where they are used in this book they
indicate words inserted by the present writer.

  156          FIRST VISIT TO ENGLAND                 [Chap.  XIII
  his friends and the hearty appreciation of some Admiralty
  officials. He was, however, chary of mentioning his
  success in obtaining sanction for the purchase of the
  heliometer.      But he derived much pleasure from the
  opinion expressed by Admiral Wharton, the hydrographer,
  who wrote,
                   " You carried your heliometer business
  through by personal energy, and uncommonly well you
  managed it."
      On arrival 1 at the Admiralty one morning he found
  that the question had passed from the Hydrographic
  Department and that before reaching the Treasury would
  pass through many hands and might be settled in about
  three weeks.     After careful enquiries on general procedure
  he traced the documents and cheerily interviewed the
  official in whose hands they were, and explained the
  importance of the instrument and its uses. Thanked for
  his kindness in calling he was told the request would
  receive early attention and would probably be out of
  that room in a week or so ; but Gill pointed out that it
  was essential that it should be through all Departments
  of the Admiralty and sanctioned by the Treasury to enable
  him to announce to the Astronomical Society Meeting
  that evening that the Government had sanctioned the
  purchase of the instrument.          After suggesting that the
  official could write his brief minute at once as well as a
  week later his views prevailed, the minute was written,
  and he was entrusted with the documents for conveyance
  to the officer who was to deal with them next. The pro
  cess was repeated and he hied him to the Treasury where
  he added to his former plea for haste the example of
  the businesslike way the Admiralty had dealt with the
  matter. The Treasury people humoured him, but the
  last man urged the utter impossibility of final Treasury
  sanction as the Financial Secretary was not in his office.
   Enquiry as to his whereabouts proved him to be at the
   House of Commons; so Gill hastened there and after
   explanations the Secretary agreed to the provision of the
      1 This account of the transaction comes from one of the staff
. of the Cape Observatory, Mr. J. Power, who probably had it at
  first  hand.

i884]                THE HELIOMETER                           157
heliometer; and a very happy Gill drove at once to the
R.A.S. and made his announcement.
    It has  been    said that Gill was always open for
advice how to deal with the official of red tape ; and he
once told how such an official, during a discussion of
                               "
observatory requirements,        became excited, and actually
                                    "                       "
swore at me."       When asked        What did you do?         he
                      "
 replied frankly :      I swore at him." It was then sug
gested to him that a better plan would have been to seem
aggrieved and to propose an adjournment of the discussion
 till the next day, when his opposer would probably be
 less heated.    Gill saw the truth of this and, lamenting
 that he had not known of it earlier, he resolved to broach
the question again and try the experiment.         It succeeded.
    During their pressure of engagements the Gills were able
to enjoy a well-earned rest at the home of his sister
 Maggie, Mrs. Powell, at Bury St. Edmunds.
                         To Mr. Elkin
           Stanningfield Rectory, Bury St. Edmunds,
                                                 1884, June 17.
    My dear Elkin, — You will, I am sure, be glad to
hear that on Friday, the 13th inst., I got the consent of
 the Secretary of the Treasury to announce to the R.A.S.
the same evening that the heliometer would be granted.
 Lord Northbrook 1 has been a very kind friend in the
 matter ; his interest in it, I think, has been increased by
 a good deal from our old friend, Sir Fred. Richards.
 Christie also has backed me most thoroughly.            I dined
 at the Admiralty on the 12th and Lord N. offered to give
 me a letter to the Treasury that I might push the matter
 myself.
    Of course, I took advantage of such an offer, presented
 myself at the Admiralty at noon, and found that the
 letter of the Admiralty to the Treasury on the subject
 was not prepared.       Armed with powers from Lord N.
  I pushed the matter through all the departments faster
 than anything of the kind had ever been done before,
 and set off for the Treasury.        Got immediate access to
                  [First Lord of the Admiralty.]
                1

 158          FIRST VISIT TO ENGLAND                  [Chap. XIII
 the chief permanent Sec*, Sir R. Lingen, who said after
 some talk that he was favourable, but that Mr. Courtney,
 the Ministerial Secretary, must be consulted and he had
 gone to the House of Commons. After a little persuasion
 by stating that the last meeting of the R.A.S. came off
 that evening, he gave me a letter to Mr. Courtney, enclosed
 Lord N.'s letter and all the Treasury papers, and I set
 off to the House of Commons, found Mr. Courtney, went
 to his private room and got his consent after going into
 the matter. —Treasury consent had never been known
 to be obtained so rapidly before. — I think I have also
brought about England joining the Metric Convention,
           ******
 at the same time. The two with my printing, will not
 be a bad piece of work for my trip home.
     My wife got ill again — too much work in receiving and
 paying calls in London.
     Now old man we must gird up our loins for our big
 parallax job 1 and carry it out manfully. . . .
     We have a grand work before us — God grant us strength
 and health to carry it out.
     My wife has been better since we came down quietly
here.     My sister has a charming place and is very happy.
     We go north to Aberdeen in the end of the month,
returning to London on 1st August.
    With kindest regards to yr mother and self, in which
my wife unites, I am always, dear Elkin, your sincere
friend,                                          David Gill.
    As already stated, since Airy's retirement there was
no one who could take his place.         The Cape Observatory
had no Board of Visitors as Greenwich has. It does
not appear that the Cape Astronomer was ever officially
placed under any sort of supervision or control of the
Astronomer Royal of the time as such. It is true that
Airy in his autobiography, on the appointments of
Henderson, Stone and Gill (but not of Maclear), to the
                                                    "
Cape Observatory records the fact that he             gave them
their instructions."       Gill, however,    certainly believed
   1
      Determining solar parallax by observations of minor planets
with their two heliometers.

  1884]         THE ASTRONOMER                ROYAL                  159
  that he was unfettered by any instructions.1              Still, Airy
  had gradually assumed, with respect to H.M. Astronomer
  at the Cape, the same position that the Board of Visitors
  does to the Astronomer Royal. The anomaly was so
  likely to lead to trouble that Gill and Christie seem to
 have discussed the question amicably together.
     Before leaving England Gill tried to get something
  settled, but without effect.      Long afterwards, the failure
 of this effort was found to have unfortunate results.
                 To the Astronomer Royal
                                                   1884,  August   15.
     My dear Christie, — After much thinking over the
 question of a Board for the Cape Observatory, I have
 come to the conclusion that you should take the initiative.
            *       *         *        *         *          *
     I have spoken to Sir Fredk Richards about an annual
 inspection by the Admiral at the Cape.             His reply was a
            *****
                      "
 broad grin, and,       What a lot of plunder you'll get out
 of that. — What about those four loads of Admiralty stores
you got out of me when I, in a weak moment, inspected
 you."
                                                            *
        Always yours sincerely,                     David Gill.
     The Gills returned to the Cape in September 1884.
His voyage must have been a period of satisfactory
enjoyment of the vast amount of work accomplished
during his holiday, brightened by the improved state of
his wife's health. He had obtained his first great desire
in the ordering of a powerful heliometer. His next
ambition, to have a perfect instrument for fundamental
meridional astronomy, possibly also a fine telescope,
might come in time.             Meanwhile, his extension of
Argelander's work to the southern hemisphere by photo
graphy was ready to advance, supported by funds
administered by the Royal Society. He had passed
many volumes and papers through the press.                    He had
         1 He makes this clear in his History, etc., p.  xxxix.

 160         FIRST VISIT TO ENGLAND                [Chap. XIII
been  in close touch with most of the great astronomers
of Europe, and he was coming to his home to be welcomed
by loving and devoted friends.
   The mode of his homecomings after visits to England
is given by Mr. Power, of the observatory staff.
   His departures for holidays and his homecomings usually
meant a gathering of the whole staff for good-byes or
welcomes.     In 1893 the incoming mail arrived after dark
and anchored in the Bay. Colonel Morris and several
of the staff went off in a tug, but unfortunately as they
ascended the gangway on one side of the ship the Chief
descended that on the other side to go ashore with the
Medical Officer of Health.       The visitors took vacant
seats at the dinner table and an hour later, as the tug
approached the docks, his cheery hail was heard from the
pier. He had made Lady Gill comfortable in their waiting
carriage, for neither would disappoint those who had come
to greet them. When asked why they had not driven
                                "
off on landing he answered,        We were certain some of
you would be here, so, not finding you, I inquired and
found you had gone off." Before the carriage started,
news of every one had to be given to the cold and hungry
occupants.
   An arrival during office hours found only one or two
of the staff at the ship, because if more were absent from
the observatory he would have spoilt the welcome by
grumbling about neglect of duty.          On these occasions
his arrival was speedily known.        He walked straight to
the study and started to read the top letter of the pile
on his desk, but was at once interrupted by the first of
 a procession of the staff, for each one of whom he had a
pithy story of their relatives or friends whom he had seen.
A like scene was going on in Lady Gill's room, and before
the day was over not only the staff, but every child
 (many in those days) had trooped in.         It was really a
family   reunion,  and  one  would   like  to have  overheard
the expression of his happy feelings at the end of the day.
   Another occasion      when all hands mustered was
 "
   Christmas afternoon on the lawn." The bachelor
members of the staff resident in boarding-houses had
mid-day dinner with the Chief, all other members with
their wives and families kept the afternoon free and

i884]             RETURN TO CAPE                       i6r
even if on seaside holiday some members of the family
returned for the afternoon. The children brought Santa
Claus' presents and he took as keen an interest in their
explanations as if they were the latest improvement in
telescopes.   Later followed a meeting of Chief and Staff
in his study for a happy hour over pipe and cigar. The
youngest and the most boyishly happy of the crowd was
Gill. The interest in those engaged at the observatory
was not a matter of once a year but was continuous.
   On their periodical trips to England they were specially
pleased to be used as carriers, and each trip brought a
case or cases for some one.      The
                                      "           " at the
                                        Messenger
Admiralty, who was surprised to see H.M. Astronomer
walking in with a box in his arms, would have been more
surprised if he had known it was a wreath of Cape flowers
for the grave of a junior's relative. — He was proud to
deliver it with his own hands.
   A packing-case was always kept open at his head
quarters for parcels he was to bring out on his return.
On one occasion when consulted by a relative of one of
his staff commissioned to purchase and send out a piano,
he (assured that the relative desired to send a more
expensive instrument and was willing to pay the extra
cost) offered to select and convey the instrument to the
Cape.    When payment of freight was tendered by the
recipient he was mightily offended.

                         CHAPTER XIV
        CORRESPONDENCE        WITH ASTRONOMERS (1884-6)
 Mr. Christie —Dr. Huggins —Dr. Gould — Professor Kapteyn    —The
             Durchmusterung —The astrographic chart.
 Gill's    gratitude to Mr. Christie for his support when
  applying for the heliometer was expressed in many letters
 to astronomers at home and abroad, and was also shown
  by his letters to him personally.
                  To the Astronomer Royal
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                                1884, November 4.
     My dear Christie, — I cannot let        a mail pass without
 sending you our most hearty congratulations on the new
 arrival — and above all on the good news you give of
 Mrs. Christie.      You know that you have our warmest
 wishes that all good things may fall to your lot. I know
 the relief of mind that this happy event has brought you.
 God grant that your dear wife and her boy may long be
 spared in health and strength.
     [Here follow remarks on a paper he is sending for the
 R.A.S. denouncing with indignation his predecessor's in
 exactitudes in reducing transit circle observations. And
 he adds]  —
    There is no stopping to reason out anything, no care
 to eliminate or investigate sources of error, but a very
 common routine mill of a sledge-hammer kind smashing
up and grinding together all kinds of incongruities and
turning out a certain tale of work, let its quality be what
it  may.1
      [And yet this, in a less exaggerated form, was the tendency
   1
he was constantly deploring in the fundamental meridional work
of all modern observatories except, perhaps, Pulkowa.]
                                  162

1884-6]        THE ASTRONOMER ROYAL                          163
   I enclose a letter from       my wife for Mrs. Christie. I
am thankful to say that Mrs. Gill is wonderfully better.
She is actually giving a dance to-morrow in honour of
my brother [Patrick, from Australia] who is living with
us on a visit.    I  am turned out of my Sanctum, which is to
                           I
be the ball-room, and feel very much like a fish out of the
water. With hopes of continued good news and kindest
regards. — Believe me, Always sincerely yours,
                                                 David Gill.
   The condemnation, in the above letter, of the methods
of observation and reduction used in Stone's valuable
Catalogue of Southern Stars emphasizes the position
always held by David Gill that nothing but the best
achievement should be tolerated by a real astronomer.
Right or wrong, that was the key to the man's life. He
                      "           "
looked upon all         slapdash     methods as treason to the
 "
   Queen of the Sciences."
                  To the Astronomer Royal
               Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                              1886, February 2.
   My dear Christie,
    By last mail I had       a letter from Otto Struve to tell
 me that   I have been elected a corresponding member of
the Imperial Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg, the
election to be announced at the annual meeting of the
 Academy on January 10.
    Sudden hot weather has set in upon us, and it has
upset my wife's health, and she is suffering a good deal.       I
 hear you are being frozen while we are being roasted.
 What would     I   give now for a snowball fight, or a pair of
skates and a bit of good ice ! and probably you would
 give something for some of our sunshine and heat ! So
it goes. However         I  am as busy as   I can be, and con
sequently quite happy and ready to make the best of
 things. — Always sincerely yours,               David   Gill.

 1 64                  CORRESPONDENCE                   [Chap. XIV
                  To the Astronomer Royal
                 Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                                   1886, April 7.
      My dear Christie,
             *       *        *       *        *          *
     You are a dreadfully bad correspondent. You don't
 know how grateful a letter is at this distance from home,
 especially about matters astronomical, else you would
 write me oftener. — Yours sincerely,            David Gill.
                  To the Astronomer Royal
               Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                             1886, November 29.
     My dear Christie, — I was prepared for the news 1
 conveyed by your letter of Nov. 4 by a telegram from
 Huggins.
    There is only one view of the question to which I can
take exception and it is this, viz. that the Gov' Grant
Committee having voted £100 for a new Dallmeyer lens,
and having induced me to spend Nasmyth's £200 and
£50 out of my own pocket for the apparatus represented
in the enclosed photograph, to carry out a scheme which
they had so far supported, suddenly turn round and throw
upon me the responsibility of dispensing with Mr. Woods'
services now, and thus upsetting the whole carefully
organized existing work, or taking upon myself the risk
of having to pay his expenses to England out of my own
pocket.       Indeed in any case the responsibility for these
expenses is thrown on me, as Mr. Woods cannot be dis
missed without six months notice, and an adverse
            ******
decision in May will cost me thus 12 months pay besides
Woods' passage home, a matter of £200.
     I need hardly tell you that I prefer to undertake this
responsibility to breaking up the existing work.
     It  may be well at this stage to give a few character
istic letters of this period to other astronomers.
     Gill's voluminous correspondence with Huggins is
mostly of interest only to practical astronomers. But his
    1
       [That the Royal Society might discontinue financial support
to the C.P.D.]

 i884-6]        SIR WILLIAM HUGGINS                         165
 racy style crops out everywhere. Here are some extracts
 from letters written in 1886 from Gill to Huggins.
                                                         "
    The famous recipe for making hare soup says,           first
 catch your hare."    Just now I am catching my hares,
 and hope in due time to make a quantity of soup in
 England.
    But I wish to present the opportunity to you of coming
 out here yourself and Mrs. Huggins in September to try
 yr own hand at photographing the Moon on the back
 ground of the Corona. . . ., and you and your wife would
 have a home and a right kindly welcome.
    I have a very kindly feeling to Pritchard. I remember
 long ago his wise advice to me, at a B.A. meeting in
 Edinburgh when I rushed like a hot-headed young ass
 as I was, at conclusions about the parallax of a nebula
 founded on a few observations extending over a few
 months. How wisely he advised me to be cautious and
 patient, but no — I would make an ass of myself. Well !
 that taught me a lesson, and I wonder chiefly now how
it is that a man can be so wise in advice, and so foolish
in practice as Pritchard seems to have been.
              To Dr. B. A. Gould (Cordoba)
                                           1884, December 23.
   My dear Gould, — It       is a long   time since I have
written to you, but I cannot allow a single mail to pass
without acknowledging receipt of your Zone-Catalogue.
    I have no adequate words to describe such a work, and
one cannot think of it alone without the Uranometria
and the Catalogue on which it rests.
   The whole history of practical astronomy presents no
such brilliant instance of successful devotion to a well
conceived original design, carried out from first to last
with consummate energy and skill. You have compelled
by your enthusiasm the Government of a remote Republic
to make large sacrifices for science, you have won the
devotion of your assistants and inspired them with some
of your own fire, and the result is incomparably the most
precious contribution to the astronomy of the Southern
Hemisphere, and one of the noblest works ever accom
plished by the labour of a single Astronomer.
   With all my heart I am in sympathy with the dedica
tion of this work to the memory of your wife. Without

166                  CORRESPONDENCE                  [Chap.  XIV
sympathy       and co-operation like hers few men would
voluntarily have endured the expatriation and solitude
of a life like yours — without his wife's fullest co-operation
no married man had a right to do so — and none but a
married man with such a wife as yours could have
done it.
    I would that she had lived to see this great work finished,
and to have shared with you the honours and congratula
tions with which your work will be received.        The reward
of sacrifice in a noble cause is not only the honour and
the praise of men in the accomplishment of the work.
 It is a higher and a nobler and a better thing, it accom
panies the work from day to day ; it is the purifying and
refining of the aspirations, the daily increasing desire
for higher and better things, the fitting of ourselves daily
for the higher and the better of the hereafter.
    Those who, like your wife, have led a life of sacrifice
for the high, the noble, the pure, the true, have found no
small reward already in this life, and now, as I believe,
her soul waits for perfecting with yours the ever higher
life of the eternities.
    May God bless and help you in your more solitary life.
May her children bless you, may your work which she
shared continue to fill your useful life, and may the hope
                            " till the
 of meeting comfort you                day breaks."
    My heart is too full of you and yours to write about
 my own little affairs.
    My wife joins me in kindest regards and sympathy,
and Believe me, Always sincerely yours,
                                                David Gill.
               To the Brothers Henry (Paris)
                                                1885,  May   13.
    My dear Sirs, — I    am sorry to say that from a telegram
 which I have just received I fear it will not be possible
 to obtain the necessary credit for the photographic tele
 scope — beyond the Dallmeyer lens with which I am now
 carrying on the star charting of the Southern Hemisphere.
     I had hoped to be able to carry on simultaneously
 photographs of star clusters, etc., with sufficient precision
 for accurate measurement — but this must wait.        It is very
 sad that science should have to wait for money — but so
 it is — alas ! — Yours very sincerely,         David Gill.

i884-6]           THE DURCHMUSTERUNG                            167
    After many preparations the first exposure of a Durch-
musterung plate with the improved apparatus was made
on April 15, 1885, and the exposures were completed
in December 1889.
   The labours of our astronomer were by this time so
exacting that the amount of work required for measuring
star places upon the plates fairly appalled him, although
never in his life did he flinch from a duty.          At this time
one of the most delightful episodes of his life occurred.
He was in continual correspondence with the greatest
authorities in Europe and America on particular lines
of research on which he was, or expected to be, engaged.
Thus for some years he had kept up a correspondence
concerning the highest refinements possible, in certain
directions 1 — for the avoidance of all possible errors in
astronomical fundamental measurements of position —
 with a Dutch astronomer whom he had never met,
 Professor J. C. Kapteyn, then of Leiden, afterwards of
Groningen, who became later the highest authority on
stellar motion investigations.
    Kapteyn was well qualified to appreciate the crying
need of a southern Durchmusterung in continuation of
the invaluable catalogue of Argelander.            Imagine, then,
the joy of the harassed astronomer at the Cape to receive,
in December 1885, a letter from Professor Kapteyn
containing these words —
              Professor Kapteyn to Dr.            Gill
    16 Dec.   1885.    [Conclusion of letter.]      I am here to
break off because I now hear that this letter has to be
dispatched an hour earlier than I expected.
    I therefore will write you another letter that will reach
you a week later. In that letter I will make bold to
make and explain to you a proposal that I hope you will
not deem indelicate.          It is in the main what follows.
   1  See Copernicus, vol. iii. for Professor Kapteyn's method for
getting fundamental declinations and latitude and for correcting
refraction tables.    Gill was practically carrying out Kapteyn's
scheme.

168                 CORRESPONDENCE                  [Chap.  XIV
 If  you will confide to me one or two of the negatives
I will try my hand at them, and if the result proves
as I expect I would gladly devote some years of my life
to this work which would disburden you a little as I hope
and by which I would gain the honour of associating my
name to one of the grandest undertakings of our time.
    Afterwards Kapteyn wrote : " I think my enthusiasm
for the matter will be equal to (say) six or seven years
of such work."
    Sir David Gill has tried to express the sensation of
relief afforded by this confidence shown towards him by
that distinguished astronomer.
    At  a time of great stress and discouragement he [Kap
teyn] lifted from my shoulders a load of responsibility
by his noble and spontaneous offer to undertake the
measurement of the plates, the computation of the results,
and the formation of the catalogue.
    The whole of Kapteyn 's work is marked by extra
ordinary thoroughness and accuracy; and the time he
spent on the C.P.D.1 and the revision of it was double
the number of years he had estimated. When two
such earnest fellow-workers        are in harness together,
each one is amply repaid for his own share by the
affectionate esteem established between the pair. But
Gill, while he regretted his inability to repay in an
equal degree the self-sacrifice of his colleague, was rejoiced
to find that there was some recompense, and that this
work upon the C.P.D. first directed Kapteyn 's mind to
                                             " led him
the study of cosmical astronomy, and                      to the
brilliant researches and discoveries with which his name
                                      "
is now and ever will be associated       (History, etc.).
    Kapteyn's greatest discovery in cosmical astronomy
was told to the world, first at St. Louis in 1904, and then
at the Cape in 1905 during the visit of the British Associa
tion to South Africa. This discovery was that the great
              1
                Cape Photographic Durchmusterung.

                   To fact page iOS.
PROFESSOR KAPTEVN.


i884-6]          PROFESSOR       KAPTEYN                   169
majority of stars, near enough to us to show proper
motion, are moving in two great swarms in nearly oppo
site directions.  It is not too much to say that this great
discovery has revolutionized our conceptions of the stellar
universe.
   Their combined work riveted these two men together
in other researches, and Kapteyn's name was thereafter
added to that growing band of distinguished astronomers
whose continuous correspondence with Gill became an
important part of the world's progress in astronomy.
   Meanwhile, the period, from 1884 to 1887, of absence
from England was being utilized in Europe.        Gill's com
 munication to Admiral       Mouchez,   head of the Paris
 Observatory, about the photographs of the comet of
 1882,1 led him to organize an International Conference of
Astronomers to meet in Paris in 1887. As already stated,
an inspection of these photographs had attracted the
 attention of the Brothers Henry of the Paris Observa
tory. They were then engaged in revising Chacornac's
catalogue of zodiacal stars, in which work they had just
reached the appalling mazes of the Milky Way.            They
immediately understood that the assistance of photo
graphy must be brought to bear upon the task; and
Admiral Mouchez, having been equally impressed by
Gill's photographic work, gave his official support to the
Brothers Henry.       These devoted brothers then set to
work, with their own hands, to make the lenses for,
and to mount, a fine photographic telescope with which
they produced superb photographs which delighted the
astronomical world.
   Following from these events, Admiral Mouchez, with
the assistance of Dr. Gill and the brothers Henry, was
able to invite the astronomical world to Paris for the
year 1887, to discuss the possibility of executing an
International Carte du del by photography.
   1
     Comptes Rendus de L'Acad.    des  Sciences. Paris,   1882,
December 26, vol. xcv. pp. 1342, 1343.

                       CHAPTER XV
              SECOND VISIT TO ENGLAND        (1887)
The Heliometer — The Paris Congress — The Cape Durchmusterung
     — An unappreciative colleague — Admiral Wharton — Situation
     saved.
In  1887,   Dr. Gill had to return to Europe partly to join
in the deliberations of the Astrographic Congress at Paris,
and partly to receive from Repsold of Hamburg the fine
heliometer, due in February, to the performances of which
he looked forward with enthusiastic hopes.         He was also
anxious to see whether the resolution of the Government
Grant Committee of the Royal Society, to withhold
financial support from the C.P.D., was to be carried out.
The Committee, on the suggestion of Dr. Huggins, had
decided to postpone a final decision until after the Paris
Congress.
   This visit, in 1887, to Europe was most eventful for
astronomy.      It would have been so had nothing come of
it except the inspection and delivery of the great 7-inch
heliometer for the Cape Observatory, which was destined,
in the hands of probably the finest observer in the world,
to furnish results of unparalleled accuracy in problems
beyond the capacity of most observers.
   It would have been equally eventful for astronomy if
nothing had come of it except the Astrographic Congress,
with the initiation of the International Carte du del
and Catalogue. David Gill was elected its Prisident
d'honneur, acclaimed by ballot, and he proved himself
in the sequel to be the greatest organizer of astronomical
joint undertakings known to his generation.
                                170

 i887]                THE HELIOMETER                          171
    His most enjoyable episodes were the tour of foreign
 observatories, when he first had the pleasure of meeting
his fellow-worker,       Professor Kapteyn;        and the visit
with him to Hamburg for the inspection of the great
 heliometer.
    Professor Kapteyn, in his obituary notice of Sir David
Gill,1 tells us—
   In March 1887 I had the pleasure of accompanying him
to Hamburg.       After a fatiguing journey we arrived only
a little before midnight.       Repsold was there to meet us.
He told us that early on the next morning everything
would be in order, so that Gill might inspect the 7-inch
heliometer which had just been completed. Gill would
                                 " I can but
not hear of such a thing.                     give you the time
necessary    for  reading my      letter.  After   that we must
see the heliometer."        And we saw it, and when he had
inspected every detail, turned every handle, read every
                                   " Well, aren't
microscope, he burst out :                          you jealous ?
Why, I wouldn't be half as happy as I am, if you weren't."
Not many weeks later the instrument was mounted at
the Cape, the most efficient instrument of the sort in
existence.
   Having inspected and passed the heliometer, the next
holiday work was to go to Paris to meet the astronomers.
   At the Astrographic       Congress of 1887 the heads of the
world's greatest observatories combined to arrange for
setting up astrographic telescopes and taking the photo
graphs necessary, each for the portion of the heavens
assigned to it. This generally involved application to
the Government concerned, for a grant of money. A
permanent committee was appointed.              It was resolved
to add to the actual chart of stars down to 14th magnitude
 a catalogue of all stars down to the 11th magnitude.
It was also resolved to request Dr. Gill to prepare a draft
scheme for carrying out the decisions of the Congress,
as a basis for discussion.          Gill foresaw in this great
           1 The A strophysical Journal, September   1914.

 172       SECOND VISIT TO ENGLAND                 [Chap.  XV
 catalogue a work of incalculable value to future astro
nomy.     His desire to benefit astronomers of the future,
in the way that Bradley, by his extremely accurate work
 more than 150 years ago is benefiting us, was well
shown in the course of a letter to the Secretary of the
 R.A.S., in the following year.
          ******
                     To E. B. Knobel
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                             April 26, 1888.
   My dear Knobel, —
   You lay down at the end of your letter a statement
with which I find it difficult to agree, and one which I
venture to hope you will reconsider, viz.
                                               " there is an
obvious objection to embarking in a scheme which
cannot be completed for thirty years from now." — I
should be as sorry as you if we did not get the photo
graphs taken within the next 5 or 6 years.        It is most
desirable that we should have the data for determining
 the places of the stars as nearly as possible at one epoch
for the whole sky. But these mere photographs are of
very little real value in themselves except for very
secondary purposes — and to carry out the resolution of
          ******
the Congress and catalogue the stars to 11th magnitude
is a great and noble work that may worthily occupy
30 years and I would be very glad if I could be sure that
          —
it would be completed in that time.
   Always sincerely yours,                   David Gill.
   These high ideals concerning the assistance that all
true astronomers can, and ought to, give to their successors,
and concerning the unselfishness with which the true
astronomer must do his duty, not to himself and his own
generation alone, but also to the science of astronomy,
were the motive impulses which guided all of David Gill's
astronomical thoughts and deeds. Thus in his presidential
address to the British Association in 1907 he speaks of
learning the lesson —

i887]         ASTROGRAPHIC           CONGRESS                173
that human knowledge in the slowly developing pheno
mena of sidereal astronomy must be content to progress
by the accumulating labours of successive generations of
men ; that progress will be measured for generations yet
to come more by the amount of honest, well-directed,
and systematically discussed observation than by the
most brilliant speculation;        and that, in observation,
concentrated systematic effort on a special thoughtfully
selected problem will be of more avail than the most
brilliant but disconnected work.
   By these means we shall learn more and more of the
wonders that surround us, and recognize our limitations
when measurement and facts fail us.
   In regard to the astrographic chart and catalogue, there
was some controversy after the Paris meeting.          It is not
the duty of this biographer here to argue as to       Dr. Gill's
rightness or wrongness in striving towards the very best,
when the very best may be unattainable.            Nor is it his
duty here to argue for or against the preliminary modes
of procedure proposed by Dr. Gill, nor to applaud or
criticize the plans and the instruments devised by him for
their execution. Subsequent historians of astronomy will
 be in a better position for dealing with these questions.
   It will be enough here to have narrated briefly the part
 which fate, in the shape of fifty-six astronomers, com
 pelled this essentially modest man to play in the Congress
 of 1887, as the leader and organizer of the grandest
 international astronomical research that has ever been
 undertaken.     He did not seek that position for himself,
 but, in the words of one writing from the trenches in
 France, 1916 —
    "
      The wise man will take the lowest room ; but only
 the shirker will refuse to go up higher." 1
    Gill was never known to refuse to undertake any
 duty imposed upon him.
    When, as one of fifty-six astronomers, he set out in 1887
 for the Congress at Paris, he looked upon himself as a
                1
                  The Spectator, January 29, 1916.

 174        SECOND VISIT TO ENGLAND                      [Chap.  XV
 unit among fifty-six units, every one of whom would
 come to the meetings primed with useful plans, the result
 of mature thought.      He little realized at first, what soon
 became     apparent to others, that he was head and
 shoulders above all the others in knowledge and ex
 perience  of the production and measurement of stellar
 photographs, and in consideration of the problems; and
 that from this year, 1887, to the year of his death, 1914,
the members of the Comiti permanent would, individually
 and collectively, seek to be guided and directed by his
 judgment, as in nearly every point they so succeeded,
 towards the completion of the Astrographic Chart and
Catalogue.     One of the ablest of the members of the
Comiti permanent has expressed this in the following
words 1 —
   The initiative for this great undertaking is due to the
joint action of Gill and Admiral Mouchez, the director
of the Paris Observatory, aided by the brothers Henry.
What the whole undertaking, not only at starting, but
during the whole of its progress, owes to Gill's untiring
energy, all will know who attended the meetings of the
Comiti Permanent. Up to the last his was the great
driving force. . . .
   How different everything will be at the future meetings,
when Gill will not be there ! How different would be
the outlook now, if he could have carried through his
plan for a central bureau, perhaps the only important
measure which he failed to see brought about !
   A few   pages may now be given to the Cape               Photo
graphic Durchmusterung         (C.P.D.), whose fate hung in
the balance. The great astronomers of all countries
saw the immediate need and great importance of thus
extending that invaluable star catalogue of Argelander
and Schonfeldt, the Bonn Durchmusterung (B.D.), to
the south pole of the heavens.             Unfortunately,       the
occupant of Airy's chair does not appear to have
          1
             The Astrographic Journal, September  191 4.

1887]                  THE    C.P.D.                     175
absorbed his predecessor's sympathetic appreciation for
worthy effort outside of his own departments;            and
he considered it to be his duty to prevent the Royal
Society from continuing to support Gill's photographic
Durchmusterung.
   The plates were to be exposed so as to include all
stars down to the 9J magnitude and no more. It would
be laughable if it were not almost tragic to record the
fact that Gill's work was opposed because, at a Royal
Society conversazione in 1886, his photographs, showing
so few stars, were placed beside long-exposure photo
graphs of the Milky Way, showing thousands of stars.
Gill wrote to Newcomt) —
   I told them that I had heard of babies crying for the
moon — but I had never dreamt of anything so funny
as a row of Fellows of the Royal Society insisting on
having more 9$ magnitude stars in the heavens, else
they would stop supplies. This made them very angry.
   This ridiculous comparison, and the contention that
the immediate completion of Argelander's identification-
catalogue would be a competitor, instead of an assist
ance, to the international Carte du del then contem
plated, were reasons given by Mr. Christie and his followers
for stopping supplies.
   In this he was successful.    First, at Paris, he pre
vented the Congress of astronomers from expressing
their opinion by saying he would withdraw his official
support from the Carte du del if the motion proposed
by Struve and Auwers in favour of Gill's work were
brought forward.     Then, at the Grants Committee of
the Royal Society, his official position enabled him to
overpower the opinions of greater men on the Council
whose speciality was not astronomy.        There came an
earnest appeal on behalf of the C.P.D. from Auwers, and
then a most generous offer from the Berlin Academy of
Sciences to supply the funds for Gill's great work.     This

176         SECOND VISIT TO ENGLAND                [Chap. XV
was countered by the plea that the Admiralty could not
be so unpatriotic as to allow him to accept it.
   The shipwreck of the great southern catalogue seemed
at last to be complete. But people had still something
to learn about the unselfishness of David Gill, and of his
wife, when the interests of science were at stake. Rather
than allow this great need of astronomy to remain un
fulfilled they resolved to complete the work at their own
private expense.
   The following extracts from a letter express the opinion
of one of the most distinguished astronomers of the day,
Professor J. C. Adams.
    To Professor Kapteyn. London 1887. June 5.— Last
Friday evening I delivered a lecture at the Royal Institu
tion on the subject of the Applications of Photography
in Astronomy — and laid down my views of the Paris
Congress    and of the relations of the Durchmusterung to
the work of that Congress.
    It was an abominably wet night but the room was
 crowded, and after the lecture who should come up to me
                                           "
but Prof. J. C. Adams of Cambridge.          I have come
                                                     "
                                                           up
 from Cambridge to hear your lecture," he said,        and I
 am delighted to have done so —good night."
    That was all that he said.
    But yesterday was the visitation of the Greenwich
 Observatory, and I went there like all the rest of the
 world.    The Board of Visitors as you know sit down
 about 3 o'clock, and are generally done with their work
 at half-past four. But 5 o'clock came, half-past five, six
 o'clock, and still the Board sat. About 5.30 Pritchard
 came out looking very angry.
               "
                                   I said to him, " What is
                  "
 the matter? — Oh, it's Adams. He doesn't understand
 photography and he has been making no end of trouble,"
 and off he went in a hurry.
    At last about half-past six, the Members of the Board
 came out and adjourned to dinner.
                          "
                                         I was seated beside
 Adams.     He then said, They have been talking all sorts
 of nonsense in that Board.       I had to set them right.
 They said yr Durchmusterung was a rival scheme to the
 Paris one and should be stopped. I told them I had
 heard your lecture last night, that it was not a rival

1887]                         THE   C.P.D.           177
scheme but a necessary preliminary.   They thought that
photography was to supersede meridian instruments.       I
told them they were talking nonsense — that they should
have come to hear your lecture and they would have been
better and wiser men."
  You may imagine what a bombshell this was amongst
them.
  Then Adams had also come down with Stokes and told
Stokes about my lecture and how surprised he had been
at my being refused the Gov* grant.  Then Stokes told
Adams that both he and Lord Rayleigh thought that Gill
was right, but they were overruled by the astronomical
members of the Committee.
  Any attempt of the enemy to stop me is now fairly
checkmated — the work will go on in peace and the
Gov* Grant Committee can weep over their mistake at
their leisure.
  God grant us health and strength to complete this
noble work (as Auwers calls   and to shame its enemies
                                    it)
by its success.
    In the           the same letter to his colleague,
                course   of
Professor Kapteyn, he uses these words —
  So, after thinking the matter well over, my wife and
I made up our minds that we should spend our own money
upon the work, and after reckoning ways and means we
found that by little self-sacrifice we could do so.
                    a
    And in  subsequent letter to the same friend later
                a
from the Cape, dated September     1887, he says —
                                          6,
    My wife has gone thoroughly hand in hand with me in
the matter.  We have carried out     great many domestic
                                          a
economies, and with a little sacrifice of capital we can
manage.    Ishall be truly thankful    in any way we can
                                             if
manage together to do this great  and   necessary work.
    Let   it   be remembered thatthis was the wife who,
shortly after their marriage, besought him to accept the
Dun Echt post, at a great pecuniary sacrifice. In     a
letter to Miss Agnes Clerke from the Cape, dated De
cember     1887, he incidentally mentions that £350 per
           6,

178         SECOND      VISIT TO ENGLAND               [Chap. XV
annum was the sum he was then paying out of his own
pocket.
   It is hardly necessary to add, what is known to every
one, that the Durchmusterung has been of the utmost
service to astronomers.
   Here it ought to be stated that, after the pleasing
heliometer incident of 1884, Gill found that Mr. Christie's
advice to the Admiralty became decidedly hostile to nearly
all proposals issuing from the Cape, and this involved
him in tedious correspondence to explain the situation
to the Admiralty.1      To dwell upon this opposition would
be to attach undue importance to it. The correspond
ence is mentioned only because it bears witness to some
of the finest traits in Gill's character, and the world's
gratitude to him must be increased when it is known
that throughout his work for twenty years he had con
tinually to bear the strain of opposition at home in a
quarter where least he might have expected it.
    Lord Kelvin and others tried at one time, without
success, to remove these disabilities.          Eventually, the
difficulty solved itself to a great extent when Admiral
Wharton, the Hydrographer,             by his great scientific
attainments, was enabled to take upon his own shoulders
the responsibility of acting as adviser-in-chief to the
Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, in observatory
matters.
   1 The
          correspondence shows, along with many other similar
incidents, that, if Sir W. Christie's advice had prevailed, astro
nomers would not now possess Gill's and Kapteyn's Catalogue
(C.P.D.) ; the British nation would not have computed and pub
lished Gill's final work on Solar Parallax and the Moon's Mass;
the splendid Meridian Marks for his Transit Circle would not have
been constructed, and some of Gill's and Hough's work would in
consequence have been lost to the world ; the staff and equipment
of the Cape Observatory would have been seriously crippled ; and
the Observatory itself would have been transferred from the con
trol of the Admiralty to that of the Cape Colony, with disastrous
results. —The reader will find some slight mention of these
matters in the correspondence with Newcomb, Kapteyn and Miss
Clerke, at the end of this book, but the main letters dealing with
this and other matter of the same kind are not needed for the
purposes of these Memories.

1887]              ADMIRAL WHARTON                        179
   The correspondence between Sir David Gill and Admiral
Wharton breathes mutual admiration and trust, with
wise counsel gratefully       acknowledged.    It helped on
the cause of astronomy from 1885 to 1905, and enabled
Sir William Wharton effectively to support the greatest
of Gill's endeavours in the cause of astronomy.    No history
of astronomy will be complete that fails to record the debt
owed by that science to Admiral Sir William Wharton.
    The correspondence is too technical for this book.
Throughout, it bears witness, in the conflict with Green
wich, to —
    Gill's impersonality in controversy; his clearness of
reasoning ; his patience under misrepresentation ; his per
sistence in holding to the point ; his gratitude to Wharton
for supporting the claims of science at the Admiralty, and
to the Lords of the Admiralty for their support at the
Treasury.
    Sir David Gill's relations with the Admiralty officials
were always most cordial.        Sir Richard Awdry, K.C.B.,
who came into intimate contact with him while he was
the Accountant-General of the Navy, puts the case in a
nutshell : " Gill overcame officialdom by the force of his
energy and by the honesty of his purpose."
    The unofficial and official correspondence with Wharton
is so brilliant, effective and instructive that (perhaps
fifty years hence) it ought to be published. Here are a
 few terse examples of style.
    From Wharton. 1885, April 24. — I quite agree with
 you in theory as to the duty of all to strive after perfec
 tion, but I think you will find that in practice this is
 very hard to obtain when it involves much expenditure
 where a Gov*. office is concerned.
    To Wharton.        1885, July 29. —    I have   not  been
 diplomatic, but   I have been honest.
    From Wharton.        1890, October 31. — Looking back to
 what you have obtained since you started, I do not think

180       SECOND VISIT TO ENGLAND                    [Chap. XV
you have by any means reason to be downhearted at yr
achievements.
   From Wharton. 1893, July 6. — I am sorry for yr
Library. The Financial Secretary struck it out. You
must fight again. If you get it you are lucky. You
shd see the Admiralty library ! ! ! [He did fight, and did
get it.]
   To Wharton.       1893,  November     15.
                                             — I fully appre
ciate the real kindness of yr letter, but I cannot say
with truth that I can follow the good advice you give.
   From    Wharton.     1894,   June    14.
                                            — The  Admiralty
have been fighting hard for you, and have written stronger
letters than I ever saw to the Treasury.
   To Wharton.      190 1, July  9.
                                    — I am glad to say that
I have never yet made a proposal to the Admiralty which
has not sooner or later been adopted, in every case with
success ; nor have I ever wasted public money.

                        CHAPTER XVI
       WORK WITH THE GREAT HELIOMETER            (1887-90)
Stellar parallax — the Sun's mean distance — Splendid work — Dr.
      Auwers' visit — Laborious reductions — Co-operation by
      foreign astronomers.
Gill's    third voyage to the Cape, in 1887, must have been
a relief and rest after the turmoil of opposition he had
gone through, and an occasion of pleasing rumination
on things accomplished, combined with joyful anticipa
 tion of great results. He must have felt very happy in
knowing that he had with him, on board the same ship,
not only the wife who was ever such a support in bright
or in dark times, but also that loved heliometer for which
he had so striven , with whose aid he might hope to accom
plish so much. But a retrospect of his labours at Paris,
and the position assigned to him in the great astrographic
work, by the unanimous acclamation of all those true
men whose opinions he valued, must have given him a
new sense of responsibility, and a new feeling of power
to do great service to his beloved science.
    In the breezy air of the Atlantic, and the clear breath
of the trade-winds, all the petty onslaughts of men whose
names would be forgotten in a generation must have
seemed paltry; for they had not interrupted his work,
and had incidentally revealed to him the strenuous
support which he might always expect from the really
great men like Adams, Stokes, Rayleigh, Struve, Kapteyn
and Auwers, who had in this matter been active in helping
him.
                              181

 182           THE GREAT HELIOMETER                   [Chap.  XVI
    After Gill's return to the Cape in 1887 the Photographic
 Durchmusterung progressed splendidly.            He had some
 difficulty in getting the Admiralty to sanction the
 greater astrographic telescope, and a suitable observa
 tory for it, with which to do his part in the Interna
 tional chart. Meanwhile the new heliometer was set to
 work upon star distances until, in the years 1888-9, i*
 could be used on the minor planets, Iris, Victoria and
 Sappho, so as to settle finally the problem of the sun's
 mean distance.       These years were perhaps the most
 fruitful for astronomy in the whole of his life.
     The result of the great Paris Congress laid much re
 sponsibility upon Gill's shoulders. His labours, assisted
by discussion with Kapteyn, and those of Admiral
 Mouchez, were much impeded by a few critics, ready to
find fault with anything proposed, and unable to suggest
 any better course of action. This hostility, coming from
men who might have helped, was, of course, easily over
 come, but was unpleasant to any one devoted to the
interests of true science, and led the layman in astonish
ment to exclaim with Virgil —
                "Tanaene animis coelestibus irael"
    The more serious trouble was with the Admiralty in
getting the photographic telescopes, with suitable observa
tories, for Greenwich and the Cape, to take part in the
great astrographic work.       It demanded unceasing atten
tion and correspondence. Often he became despondent
when the officials six thousand miles away were stupid
and made needless difficulties, or were badly advised.
    In the end he got his way as usual, as is concisely stated
in the following letter —
                    To Mr. E. B. Knobel
                  Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                               August  22, 1888.
    My dear Knobel, —Two days           ago I  received the fol
lowing telegram —

1 887-90]     ASTROGRAPHIC         TELESCOPE               183
           ******
   "
      Admiralty London to Astronomer Cape Town.
Telescope will be ordered in England. Financial details
mailed. Send specification Dome and square building."
   But that is a matter of no consequence now. [Certain
disputes.] The great thing is that the Telescopes [at
Greenwich and the Cape] are sanctioned. . . .
   But it is such a pity to quarrel. Let us rather work.
There is so much to be done and so much to be thought
out, and there appear to be so few who are working and
thinking. — Always sincerely yours,           David Gill.
   Certainly Gill was doing plenty of working and think
ing in the cause, as is shown by a mass of correspondence
on all sorts of details.  The riseau which he had invented
 for measuring photographs in the Dun Echt expedition to
Mauritius proved to be a most valuable accessory, not
only for certifying all absence of shrinking in the films,
but also for facilitating the measurement of star positions
on the plate with the help of a machine he devised.
    Gill's perseverance in overcoming the difficulties in
securing the astrographic telescope are told in a letter
to Mr. Knobel. There was no scientific man in England
more esteemed than Sir George Gabriel Stokes, and
Gill never appealed to him for assistance in a righteous
cause without success.
                       To E. B. Knobel
                 Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                            1888, October 13.
    My dear Knobel,        . . . — As I told you    before,   I
wrote to Stokes on July 18 a very urgent letter, begging
him as Pres. of the R.S., and as a Member of Parliament,
to press the matter on Gov*. — either on ministers person
ally, or if that failed by asking a question in the House.
    I understand that Stokes and Grubb got Sir H. Roscoe
 to ask the question on 31st July. . . .
    So soon as Stokes got my letter he went to the
 Admiralty; got hold of Lord George [Hamilton] and
 Smith [W. H. Smith] and Goschen, and Underhill

  184             THE GREAT HELIOMETER                  [Chap.  XVI
  (Ass*, hydrographer) writes me that but for Stokes'
  activity and persistence we would not have got the money
  for months.
     As it is I have got now formal official authority for —
     £2000 for telescope.
        700 observatory and dome.
        250 a year for 5 years for skilled photographer.
         50 a year for computer to aid in exposing plates.
         50 a year for chemicals.
     This is £500 more than I asked for — and, strangely
 enough, my original proposal (at some mischievous sug
 gestion) was condemned as too costly, and I was warned
  " of the
             costly character of all proposals emanating from       .
 the Cape, and to show more care in future." This, as
 you may suppose, roused me, and I showed that the plan
 of observatory proposed in lieu of mine would cost nearly
 as much as mine — that the simultaneous view of the zenith
 by the guiding and photo-telescopes was cut off for 200
 or 300 by the proposed segmental opening, and no develop-
 ing-room and photo store was provided as in mine, and
 that the plan of paying computers at so much a plate
 to do the work would not do here. — I then demanded
 that my Lords should, for my future guidance, point out
 any proposal of mine which had been unduly costly —
 any proposal which had not been successful when carried
 out, or not well considered before being proposed.
     I have no reply to these questions, but my square 20 foot
observatory, my skilled photographer and everything
 I asked for have been granted, and £500 to cover con
tingencies — (which I did not ask for).1 . . .
    Yes, The Observatory has made itself ridiculous, but
 I think Common and Turner meant well — and no harm
has been done to any one but themselves.               Bakhuyzen
writes me expressing his disgust at the tone of the letters
                                                "
of the Editors and Common, and says               what a contrast
to the perfect gentleman Knobel."                Others write in
similar terms.
    What a splendid offer Lord Crawford has made to
      [This is only one example out of many where Gill was worried
   1
almost to death by stupidity, as well as by misrepresentation, at
home.     It is also one example of the way in which, by holding to
his point, he, almost invariably, gained the wholehearted support
of the Admiralty to his well-considered recommendations.]

  1 887-90]      EDINBURGH OBSERVATORY                          185
 Edinburgh 1— I only regret that such fine instruments
 should be condemned to use in such a climate. . . .
      Miss Clerke 2 is here, very happy and very busy with
 star spectra. . . .
      Very busy just now with Iris — 2 to 4 a.m. — Always
 dear Knobel, Yours sincerely,                     David Gill.
                        To Dr. Copeland
                                               February 13, 1889.
      My dear Copeland, — I have been inordinately busy
 for the past month or two, and have each mail-day
 postponed writing to you, because I said to myself I can
 write more at length next mail. But my letter has been
 too long postponed now, and must wait no longer.
     Therefore believe me and indeed you know right well —
 that it is no lack of cordiality or good will that has delayed
 the congratulations on your app* to Edinburgh which
 I  wd now send to you.        You will have a most desirable
 position in every way — except perhaps in clearness of sky
 — the most delightful society — and an equipment second
 to none in Great Britain.
      It is indeed a noble gift of Lord Crawford's to the
 Scottish nation — and I am sure that in your hands the
outcome will be much good solid work for the advance
 ment of Astronomy.
     What is your staff to be ? — what the general plan of the
 buildings? — what instruments are to be mounted ? In all
these things I take the very deepest interest, and any
information about them would be most welcome.
     I can hardly think without a sigh of those foundations
at Dun Echt which I laboured to make so satisfactory
and sound — all swept away — and yet I am sure it is for
the best interests of science that it shd be so.        You have
a grand chance, with all yr experience, to plan a splendid
observatory —and I am sure you will. If any ideas of
mine are likely to be useful to you — by all means
command me.
     I do not know whether you are still at Dun Echt or
    1
       Referring to Lord Crawford's presentation to the nation of
the astronomical instruments and valuable library at Dun Echt,
now in use at Blackford Hill, Edinburgh.
    1
       The celebrated authoress of historical books on astronomy.
She paid a long visit to the Gills, and received much encourage
ment in her work.

186          THE GREAT HELIOMETER                 [Chap.  XVI
what or how ? — but no doubt this will find you if addressed
to Edinburgh.
   Here we are as busy as you must be — finishing off the
reductions of the last 5 years field work of the Geodetic
Survey — building the new Photographic Observatory —
reductions of observations of Iris — observations on Stellar
parallax every night with Heliometer — and every day an
hour and a half at its division errors — finishing up the
Photo. Durchmusterung — and the regular tale of Meri
dian work.      All my computers are drifting off to the
Gold fields.   I think I must get out some young German
Astronomers — do you know any who would come ?
   You will find delightful colleagues in Tait, Chrystal and
Crum Brown — and a very true friend in Lord Maclaren —
It is such society that one misses here — and which you
must have missed at Dun Echt.
   I am getting more and more attached to this place.
It has a glorious climate, presents splendid opportunities
for work, and a beautiful home is growing around us.
   The grounds which used to be a ghastly wilderness are
now at least tidy — and are certainly picturesque. Drain
age, road-making, tree -planting, water supply have done
 wonders.
   We have ten times as much Society as we can deal
with —and can have as much of it or as little of it as we
please. — Only we have no Taits or Chrystals or Lord Mac-
larens or Robertson Smiths — that is what one misses. But
we have had Miss Gierke — and half expect a visit from
Auwers in June —and that is for the time ample compensa
tion.   Mouchez wants me to come for the next meeting
of the Permanent Committee of the Paris Astro-photo.
Congress — but it is impossible as I am to observe Victoria
and Sappho in conjunction with the Heliometers at Yale,
Bamberg, Gottingen and Leipzig.       I have urged that 1890
— (after we have got and tested our telescopes) is the
time for the Congress and he agrees that the really im
portant meeting will be then — and to that I will come.
My wife desires to join in kindest remembrances to Mrs.
Copeland and yrself. — Always dear Copeland, Sincerely y™
                                             David Gill.
   Next to his wife Gill loved his heliometer.           It is
somewhat remarkable that Lady Gill was never jealous

   i887-9o]        STELLAR PARALLAXES                        187
   either of the telescope at Skene Terrace, Aberdeen, or
  of the heliometer at Ascension or the Cape.          When he
  set up the great heliometer at the Cape and remembered
  all he had gone through to perfect it and to acquire it,
  and when he first tried it upon star measurements and
  found it to be "the most powerful and convenient
  instrument for refined micrometric research in existence
                                                                "
  [History, etc., p. cxlviii], he must indeed have felt the
 satisfaction of a creator in seeing that it was very good.
 And when on subsequent nights he spent a few hours
 with this second love, in getting the data for measuring
 star-distances, he would come into the house shouting
 and singing; so that his wife then said he was
                                                     " daft."
     When David comes in after a night's work with his
 old heliometer he is just daft, laughing and joking. — He
 was the same with the telescope in his father's garden
 when we were first married.        So it was at Dun Echt,
 and exactly the same in Ascension. — And so it will be
 as long as his eye can look through a telescope.
     The heliometer was soon set up ; and work commenced
 in the great attack upon star distances with this powerful
 instrument.
     Concerning these researches it is best to quote from
 Professor Kapteyn's obituary notice of Sir David in 1914.
     Twenty-two stars have been measured for parallax,
either with the 4-inch or the 7-inch heliometer. They
are the only reliable determinations of stellar parallax
ever made in the Southern Hemisphere.            It might al
most be said that they are the first parallaxes, or at least
the first extensive series of parallaxes, which command
the entire confidence of the astronomers. The gain in
probable error may not be so considerable. The gain
in real reliability is very great. In fact, in the domain of
stellar parallax, as indeed also in that of the solar parallax,
Gill has given us back our belief in probable errors, a belief
which, among astronomers, had given way to a pretty
general scepticism.
     Why this is so is not a matter of doubt. No one can

 188          THE GREAT HELIOMETER                    [Chap. XVI
study Gill's work without feeling that he has to do with
the born observer, the man with the intuitive faculty
of finding out every possible source of systematic error
and with the unerring judgment in devising means for
its removal ; the man with the instinctive feeling for perfect
symmetry by which all errors known or unknown must be
eliminated.    As a consequence we find Gill never satisfied
with his work, as long as in any part of it the agreement
of the several results is markedly inferior to what might
be expected from the probable errors.             It cannot be
doubted that by the example thus given of a perfect
arrangement of the observations and their exhaustive dis
cussion, Gill has contributed to the advancement of
science quite as much and more than by the results of
his observations themselves.
   In the years 1887-8, besides all the observations for
getting star distances, in which he was assisted by Finlay
and the Dutch student De Sitter,1 there was a stupendous
amount of work to be done in preparing the way for
obtaining a new and definitive measure of the sun's mean
distance by observations of the minor planets Iris in 1888,
Victoria and Sappho in 1889. The problem of the solar
parallax had been his first great research, a matter of
great importance for the lunar theory, and for fixing the
correction to star places due to the aberration of light, and
he never desisted from efforts to improve its accuracy.
        "Nil actum reputans si quid superesset agendum."
   In  the first volume of The Observatory,        in 1877, Gill
wrote what has been generally admitted to be the best
discussion ever written upon methods for determining the
solar parallax.    He was now about to apply the con
clusions therein proclaimed. The arranging and planning
of the operations involved a vast amount of preliminary
work, calculation and correspondence, to unite in one
plan all who were able to lend a helping hand.
   It became necessary to know very exactly the positions
of the stars of comparison. To enable him to do this
              1
                Now Professor  de Sitter of Leyden.

 i887-^o]     'VICTORIA' OBSERVATIONS                        189
                                                    " friends,"
 in the most complete manner, Gill applied to his
 a term    which now included every astronomer in the
 world; and twenty-two observatories were engaged in
 finding accurate positions of the comparison stars which
 he selected.   Another friend, Auwers of Berlin, undertook
 the labour of reducing for him all of these observations.
    Now he saw that a breakdown, or eye-strain, of a single
observer would be fatal, and his assistant, Finlay, had
other duties to attend to.        No one else at the Cape
 could use the heliometer.      Gill told his trouble to the
one of his many friends who was most able to help him.
 For reply, Dr. Auwers, the great Berlin Astronomer,
packed up his portmanteau, gave up all his own work
and engagements, and started on a voyage to the Cape
to give his personal services as assistant to Dr. Gill in his
dilemma.
    When Gill suggested this visit to Auwers he wrote
thus —
                        To A. Auwers.
    One observer cannot possibly accomplish all the work
here — and if you neglect such a chance as this          I shall
think that my good friend has lost all his old astronomical
enthusiasm ! ! !    Come — good friend— come.
                    From A. Auwers
                                      Berlin, April 23, 1889.
           ******
    My dear   Gill, — I  am ready to leave this April 29 and
to sail from Southampton (p. Spartan) May 3rd.             So I
hope   to  meet  you May 23 and to begin observing with
the heliometer the same or next evening.
    Always yours most sincerely,              A. Auwers.
    The four months spent by Dr. Auwers at the Cape
gave unalloyed happiness to guest and hosts alike.          The
mutual esteem of these two indefatigable workers, and
the interchange of astronomical experiences, gave to

igo            THE GREAT HELIOMETER                  [Chap.  XVI
each an intellectual treat of the highest kind.     Their work
with the heliometer was entirely satisfactory.              After
completing the Victoria observations the two astronomers
visited, for relaxation, the beautiful districts of Ceres,
Wellington and Cape Point ; and the parting in September
was heartrending.
                      From A. Auwers
                                           September 17, 1889.
    My dearest     Gill, — To-morrow    morning we expect to
reach Madeira.      [Here follows a description of the voyage.]
My head becomes too giddy in the close saloon to write
you more, and to express to you so as I should like, how
happy and thankful I continue to feel, and always shall
be, on behalf of all friendship and kindness bestowed upon
me by you and your wife during these beautiful months.
 I hope to hear from you very soon, and hope to hear
only good news — that both of you are well, that the
triangulation has made satisfactory progress, and that
 Sappho is not too faint, and Mrs. Gill not too anxious
about the state of the sky, and that you both still miss
me a little, and think of me nearly so often and so friendly
as I do of you. — Yours most truly,             A. Auwers.
    It is only by reading the Cape Annals that astronomers
can learn what a huge undertaking was involved for
the observations on these three planets, and still more
for their reduction. It will be noticed that everything
depended upon the exact position in space of each observer
at the time of his observations.         And his position is
affected by (1) the rotation of the earth on its axis,
 (2) its course round the sun affected by planetary per
 turbations, and (3) by the same as affected by the moon's
attraction.     This last depends upon the true mass of the
 moon. It is a most striking commentary upon the pre
 cision of these investigations that Gill was able to detect
 periodical irregularities in his results due to the fact that
the accepted mass of the moon was wrong. It was only
 by choosing a new value for the moon's mass that these
irregularities could be eliminated. Thus by three months

                                                        *
                                      [To face page 190
THE HELIOMETER HOUSE, WITH DR. AUWERS AND
             DR. AND MRS. GILL.


i887-9o]        HELIOMETER         RESULTS                191
of observations on Victoria with the extraordinary exact
ness of his methods he enabled us to measure the deflection
of the earth in her orbit by the moon more accurately
than could be done by all the solar observations of a century
collected by Le Verrier for use in computing his Tables.
   As a matter of fact, this final check upon the results
could not be effected with the planetary tables com
puted for the Nautical Almanac, where 7-figure logarithms
only were used. So Dr. Tietjen of the Berlin Nautical
Almanac Office undertook to recalculate these tables for
Gill with 8-figure logarithms, taking note of all planetary
perturbations.
   This discovery of an error in the accepted value of the
moon's mass, and of its effect upon the earth's position,
is delightfully told in a letter to Newcomb, with whom
he discussed every step in this great work.
                 To Professor Newcomb
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                          1892, December 13.
   My dear Newcomb,
   But now let me go into a matter that has stirred me
to the depths, and which I think will stir you also.
   You will remember that I divided the Victoria obs™
into 15 groups. . . .
   When the first two or three groups were solved I was
a little melancholy at the way in which the values of the
resulting Aa (or *'s) came out — however, light very soon
came out of the darkness.
   When I proceeded to plot the Jet's on a piece of paper
 I was astonished to find that every one dropped into a
regular curve, and as group after group came out every
value of Aa dropped within o"o3 or o".04 of the same
curve.    And not only that but the Declinations have
a smaller curve of the same period, and not only that
 but the maximum and the minimum of both cui.ves will
tell you almost to a day when the moon's longitude is
 900 from that of the planet
                               — and in fact you have the
 curve of the lunar equation ! !

192          THE GREAT HELIOMETER                   [Chap.  XVI
   Gill then remarked      that his Mars observations          at
Ascension in 1877 showed the same periodical lunar effect.
From this date he never ceased urging upon Newcomb
the completion of his new tables of Mars, that he might
then use his 1877 observations at Ascension for improving
our knowledge of the moon's mass.
   The labour involved both in the observations and in the
reductions, which latter demanded renewed efforts when
the extreme accuracy of the former became apparent,
was enormous — the success complete.
   So soon as the preliminary reductions demonstrated
the unprecedented accuracy of these observations, Gill
was urged by astronomers to hasten             the complete
reduction of the invaluable results obtained by him.
Simon Newcomb wrote —
   I thought that I was making Astronomical tables for
the 20th Century, but you have obtained results for the
21st or 22nd Century.
   And   Tisserand,   Director  of the Paris     Observatory,
wrote,
        " C'est une véritable
                                triomphe pour l'astronomie
de précision."
   Unfortunately, at this period the Admiralty refused
for a time the     necessary   computers, refused even to
replace those incidentally lost to the observatory.        This
was done on the advice of the Astronomer Royal, who
considered they ought not to encourage such observations
of minor planets as were outside of Greenwich work, nor
the reduction of observations many of which were of
foreign origin.
                 To Professor Newcomb
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                         1 89 1, January   14.
   My dear Newcomb, — I am in the midst of a fight
with the Admiralty about a proper provision of com
puters. I have already spent Pickering's (Miss Brace's)
£100 in advance, at least it will be done at the end of

1887-90]         'GO,' AND HE          'WENT'                   193
another month, and I am then pushing on the Victoria
and Sappho work at my own cost.
   This is of course between ourselves.
                  To Professor Newcomb
                                               1 89 1, August 26.
   My dear Newcomb, . . . — I write to tell you —
   1st. That yr kind letters re reduction of observations
of Victoria and Sappho duly reached me —and were of
the greatest service.
   The first asking whether it was only money I wanted,
and that you cd probably get that for me, I showed to
Lord Herschell the Lord Chancellor of the last Gov*.
He was very indignant about the meanness of the
Admiralty and spoke to Mr. Goschen the Chancellor of the
Exchequer.      Goschen wrote to say that the matter had
never gone to the Treasury . . . and Goschen advised
Ld Herschell to tell his friend to apply again to the
Admiralty. This I did — and yr semi official letter
coming in the nick of time I added it.              Three weeks
passed    without  a  sign — and   Ld  Herschell   wrote   to ask
me if I had had no answer         —  I said none. He wrote,
" Shall I                                     "
            go for Ld George Hamilton ?           (First Lord of
                                              " went."
the Admiralty) — I said "go," and he                        Three
days after I got the money.
   I have had several similar skirmishes.
   There is further correspondence on this subject with
Newcomb May 30, 1894.            The results obtained from
the three planets agreed within their probable error,
and confirmed the values yielded by Gill's preliminary
attempts in his Juno and Mars expeditions in 1874-5
and 1877-8; and are universally accepted as correct
within less than a thousandth part of the amount. His
definitive value for the sun's mean distance is 92,876,000
miles.1
   It will be seen from this cursory narrative how cordially
the whole world of astronomers were always ready to
assist David Gill in his great undertakings, confident that
  1
     Corresponding to a horizontal equatorial parallax of 8"8o2.
     O

 194          THE GREAT HELIOMETER                  [Chap. XVI
his careful preparation and
                                "                      "
                                  dogged persistence     would
carry the most laborious endeavours to a successful
issue.   They felt themselves amply rewarded by being
enabled to participate in the enterprise, especially when
dealing with the planet Victoria, which may be described
as one of the grandest astronomical researches ever carried
out through the energy of a single dominant personality.
   It was Gill's personality that led Elkin first to visit
the Cape to use the heliometer, to obtain one at Yale,
and to share in Gill's labour — thaj led Schur and Peters
and Hartwig to add their quota of heliometer observations
— that led Auwers to reduce for his use the great mass
of observations of comparison stars — that led the directors
of twenty-two observatories to observe all the comparison
stars —that led Dr. Tietjen to compute for him the
planetary perturbations.        Lastly, it was affectionate
esteem that led Auwers to sacrifice everything to lend
his personal help.      This was the man who, on Gill's
death, wrote  —
   I have lost a really true and dear friend after 40 years
of common work in which we always were pleased to join,
fully sure that the one could rely upon the other.
   We may search the memoirs and biographies of the
most esteemed and the best loved astronomers of all
times, from Tycho Brahe, Kepler and Newton, to the
great days of the Herschels and Struves, of Bradley,
Argelander, Adams and Airy, without              finding any
parallel to this intense  confidence,  devotion and affection,
universally inspired and held, by the simple, unselfish
and essentially human character of this great, big-hearted
astronomer.

                    CHAPTER       XVII
        A VISIT FROM MISS AGNES CLERKE (1887-8)
The last chapter dealt with star photography and the
use of the new heliometer for finding the distances of the
sun and stars. In these observations Gill attained to
the very zenith of his observing powers.      Many years
passed before his photographic Durchmusterung and his
solar parallax work were fully reduced and published.
These two publications alone would have laid astronomers
under a permanent debt to him. Fortunately, they are
only two, out of many, of Gill's contributions to exact
science while at the Cape.
   It is a pleasure now to be able to give some letters
showing another side of the man.           They illustrate
Gill's keen desire to help any one who sought his advice
and introduce us to one of his most esteemed friends,
a charming personality, Miss Agnes Clerke, the great
historian of nineteenth-century astronomy.
   Mrs. Gill had made her acquaintance, and was charmed
with her artistic temperament. During their visit to
England in 1887 she begged her husband to read Miss
Clerke 's History of Astronomy during the Nineteenth
 Century, in spite of his belief that no woman could do
justice to his noble science.     Reluctantly he took up
the book.     As he read page after page his interest and
astonishment grew. After he had read it through he
was convinced of the intellectual power and originality
of the authoress.
                             195

196              VISIT FROM MISS CLERKE                     [Chap.   XVII
                      To Miss Agnes Clerke
                            Cape   of Good Hope,   December 6, 1887.
  My dear Miss Clerke, — It was real good of you to
write me ; I cannot tell you how welcome was your letter
of October 10, and how still more welcome is the
prospect of hearing from you as you can find time. Six
thousand miles away from the centres of intellectual life
give a value to such letters as yours which you can
hardly understand. In fact, it is one of those experiences
which it would be worth your while to learn something
of. You who write so much to interest astronomers
would be able better to understand what they want to
hear  if,  knowing what you do, you were to remove
yself from the centre of information for a while and
come out here, and feel a little of the thirst to know
what  is  going on.
   Now you do not say anything about the matter of                     yr
coming out to see us, which you really seriously enter
tained, and which my wife and       hope one day ere long
                                         I
to see realized. It would do you a world of good, and
me a world of good also, just to have real good talks
about all the things you are in the midst of.
   This book of yours would, am sure, have a far higher
                                     I
value if  you really practically knew something of prac
tical astronomy, and you should observe a little bit just
to be able to write better about things practical.   There
fore
   I   beg you very seriously to consider the matter, and
try so to arrange your plans and engagements as to allow
you to leave London about the first or second week of
August next and come out for       month or two to see us.
                                         a
September       the most delightful month of the year, the
                 is
observatory hill       iscarpet of wild flowers, and the
                            a
weather      simply perfect.
            is
   Now for your letter.
   The photographic matter on the lines of the Congress
stands thus. [Here follow several pages detailing the
progress, and want of progress, of the Astrographic chart
and catalogue.]
   Meanwhile the little Durchmusterung           going on
                                                       is
apace.   Woods      working every night
                      is                till midnight, and
then one of the computers takes up the work of exposing
at midnight and goes on till dawn.
   The new plates give me the same result in half an

  i887-8]       HELPING AN AUTHORESS                            197
  hour that the old plates gave in an hour.           Kapteyn is
  getting on with the reductions, but he has 5 or 6 years'
  work before him. Still, the work will be out before the
  other has well begun.
     I am very sorry to have missed Young — he is a man I
  have long wished to know.
     Every word about yr book interests me greatly. Yes,
  go on to the end before you turn back —that is best — and
  then rewrite or recast it as necessary.       But I think you
  will find that after you have driven what you have
  written upon a special subject out of yr head, and then
 after a lapse of time turn back, you will be more pleased
 with what you have written than you were before, and
 that only where fresh thought or study have put matters
 in a new light or brought out something you did not
 know before, then only will you require to alter what
 was written.
    I fear that my mills grind very slowly —and that I
 shall have very few facts for you — unless you can wait
 4 or 5 years, when I hope to have quite a batch.             The
 Heliometer is erected and the trying work of determining
 its constants, such as screw errors, etc., is going on. I
 have been much worried by batteries for the illumina
 tion, but have at last got Treasury sanction for funds to
 provide a Dynamo, etc. We have a steam engine.               The
 instrument is simply exquisite, and I expect very refined
 results. [Then follow details of working programme,
stellar parallaxes, etc.]
    I have lots more to say, but I have already got to a
disgraceful length. My wife sends a few lines, and we
both send all kind wishes to you and yours. — Yr sincere
friend,                                          David Gill.
    P.S. — I am going to keep your letters. Yr letters will
be filed Q3,1 the subdivision of my astronomical corre
spondence formerly occupied by poor Profr. Winnecke.
                    To Miss Agnes Clerke
                           Ceres, Cape Colony, April   15, 1888.
    My dear Miss Clerke, — I        am quite ashamed when I
look at the date of your delightful letter of Jan* 9. It is
            1
              Airy's system of keeping correspondence.

1 98        VISIT FROM MISS CLERKE               [Chap. XVII
not very easy to find an excuse, so I shall plead none, but
go on with my story.
   First of all let me thank you for your important and
excellent article in the Quarterly, and for yr rather too
kindly mention of my share in the matter of the Paris
conference.    It is rather a friend's account of a friend's
work than the magisterial we's of a reviewer. My photo
graphic friend's name is Allis, not Aldis. The article as
a whole is a most admirable one.
   But now to explain our whereabouts. Here we are
and have been for the past 9 days in one of the prettiest
villages in South Africa, situated in a basin amongst the
mountains about 80 miles from Cape Town, and a little
over 1500 feet above sea level. In winter the surrounding
mountain tops are covered with snow.
   The summer has been an exceptionally hot and trying
one, and in fact I felt the need of a rest — for my last trip
home was so far the reverse of a rest that I was most
thankful to get on board ship, where no letters or proof
sheets could reach me, and I might lapse into the life of
a cabbage for three weeks.
   Then I had hard work on arrival and countless things
to do, and I had no time to get over a rather sharp nerve
tension, the result of overworry from many causes, some
of which you know, and which continued after my arrival
at the Cape.     The settlement of these was followed by
our hot weather and a bilious attack — a deferred result
of too many Paris, London and other dinners — and so
some change and rest were desirable.
   So with our Admiral (Sir W. Hunt Grubbe), Major
Morris, R.E. (in charge of field work of the Survey and
our guest at the Observatory), Dr. Curtis (Surgeon of the
Naval Hospital at Simons Bay), and Mrs. Currey (a
friend of my wife's), we came up here for rest and change.
   I will get you some photographs of the place on our
return to Cape Town and send them for yr South African
album —these will convey to you some idea of our sur
roundings, and when I add a perfectly blue sky, genial,
bracing air, and a comfortable hostelrie, you will under
stand how suitable is the place for our purpose.
   The mornings we spent lazily, wandering about pick
ing up Tadpoles and sundries for Morris' microscope,
eating grapes, gathering figs and mushrooms, etc., etc.
Then lunch at one o'clock, and off for an hour or two's

i887-8]           RESTING AT CERES                     199
drive to some farm, where partridges or snipe might be
found — shot till sunset and returned to dinner. After
dinner a game at whist and pipes and then to bed.
   Thus I became so idle that I did nothing except to get
perfectly well — and I am happy to say my wife did the
same.    Now I feel that I must begin to do something,
and that first something is a letter to you. Then I pro
pose to write a business letter or two, and then to have
4 or 5 days' regular shooting — early and late — and then
back to the dear old Observatory again.
   Now for matters astronomical. Of course I have no
results to communicate — and only that all goes well, and
that I am working first at the parallax of the brightest
stars. For less bright stars I am not sure but that
photography may be found the easiest plan for the work—
at least for wholesale work.   But it must be gone about
differently from Pritchard's methods. A rlscau must be
employed to detect the distortion of the film in develop
ment. Pritchard has conclusively shown that such dis
tortion takes place, but he is not taking what are now
well-known methods to counteract it.
   [Here follow details about progress with the astro-
graphic chart and catalogue which, among other matters,
are too extensive to be adequately discussed in this
book.]
   Our electric lighting was completed in February, and
is a complete success.   It works without a hitch, and is
a delight and comfort unspeakable.     All the instruments
are now so illuminated, and we are already wondering
how it was possible to observe without it. My office and
the Library are also illuminated with electric light — but
you must come and see.     Really a voyage is an excellent
time in which to ruminate — and you shall have a nice
quiet room all to yourself to write in —so that your
literary work need not suffer. Besides, the brain must
rest sometimes, and August is the time when in any case
you would be taking yr holiday.    So come you must, and
right happy and welcome shall we make you.
   Besides, I don't see why you should remain what the
Australians call a one-horse woman (no, they say a one-
horse man — I never heard them say woman ; it is left to
my ungallant pen to say that) — but you are not com
plete till you have seen and done a little practical astro
nomy.     Your work would take a new and higher character

200         VISIT FROM MISS CLERKE             [Chap. XVII
after a little practical knowledge.    I am no flatterer,
and I tell you plainly and truly that the only short
comings in yr book are due to the want of practical
knowledge of practical work—and that yr mistakes on
this point would be cured by a month's seeing and doing
of practical work.
   For our sakes, for yr own, for yr future work and for
the cause of astronomy I beg you to come.       I am glad
yr book is to be translated into German, but sorry that
you are so dissatisfied with the man who is doing it.
You should read the proofs — so long as yr meaning is
understood, a little cloudiness will lend an additional
charm to the German mind.
   I wish I were on the Council of the R.A.S. You
should be an honorary member of that Society also.
You deserve it as well as Miss Caroline Herschel. The
Liverpool Society has shown a good example. Mean
while, can I help you about anything? If there is any
point about which you want my opinion, or any observa
tion you wish made for your purposes, please let me
know.
   I am glad you like the photographs I sent you — and as
you have a Cape Album I will send you others from time
to time — anything that I think will tempt you to come.
Besides, what a chance for a good paper about a visit to
a Southern Observatory.       Yr impressions would be so
fresh, yr mind so ready for all, that I think the result
would be quite unique.
   My wife is to write with this — I have said my say — I
wd I could put the matter before you in sufficiently
tempting terms to compel you to decide to come.        Re
member me to yr family circle and to our mutual friends,
and believe me, always yr sincere friend,  David Gill.
   P.S. — I omitted to tell you about our comet. It was
discovered by Mr. Sawerthal, my secretary, whom I
employ also as aide-photographer or rather exposer.    He
works from midnight to dawn. He watched the comet
for a long time (during the exposure of a plate) with the
naked eye, then ran for an opera glass, was sure it was a
comet, and roused up Finlay, who observed it. Finlay
had been comet-hunting in the mornings for the previous
fortnight, and it was rather hard on him. However, the
discovery has done Sawerthal a great deal of good —
doubling his enthusiasm.

1 887-8]          A HAPPY PROSPECT                       201
                 To Miss Agnes Clerke
                         Cape of Good Hope, June 16, 1888.
   My dear Miss Clerke, — This is indeed glorious news
that the mail, just arrived, brings us. How splendid is
this resolution of yours, how kind of you to come, and,
tho' I say it who shouldn't, what a grand thing for you
and yr future work ! ! Yes, in    y  reasons for coming you
quote precisely what I felt most strongly when I wrote to
you, that it is an astronomical necessity. In yr History
of Astronomy the one weak point was your want of
critical knowledge of practical work, and that can only
be gained by some experience of such work.           I shall
prepare a little practical course for you, having regard to
yr limited time, and your special purposes, and to give
the thing zest will endeavour to give you opportunity for
finding out a few new things which are all ready to be
found out, tho' I have never had time to seek them.
The spectroscopy of the Southern Heavens is absolutely
virgin soil. A telescope with a direct vision prism on it
and a selected list of objects, and time to examine and
note the spectra of red and variable stars, should alone
produce a crop of results, and then I daresay a very little
sweeping would yield a small crop of planetary nebulae;
all this, with yr knowledge of typical spectra, wd be very
easy for you.    But besides this you must see something
of the old astronomy — and of the pitfalls and sources of
systematic error in delicate measures such as parallax
work. You will see the final bringing together of the
Cape Catalogue for 1885 and the discussion of its errors,
comparison with other catalogues, deductions of proper
motion, discussion of refraction, etc., etc., besides some
curious geodetic and other matters.
   And you will arrive just in our best season, when our
observatory hill is carpeted with wild flowers, when
between the cloudy days the sky is a blacker blue than
you ever see in England, when the oaks are putting on
their brightest green, and when it is a very joy to breathe
the sunny, fragrant air.
   Ugh — we have had such a winter.         Eight inches of
rain here in May, and on the mountain side 27 inches
within three miles of us. June has been the same till
to-day —rain every day — only 8 sets of Heliometer

202           VISIT FROM MISS CLERKE              [Chap. XVII
observations in May and 4 in June, and only two nights
on which star photographs could be taken.           Last year
we had 20 nights observing in May.            The contrast is
terrible.
   A couple of days ago the banks of the Liesbeck River
 (artificial) broke down about half a mile from the ob
servatory, and as I write the river has formed a new
course for itself across my avenue, bursting up my
culverts and sweeping a huge breach through the Lovers'
walk.
   June     18.  Two fine sets of Heliometer observations
last night with a lovely day make matters brighter.          I
shall say no more about melancholy meteorology.
   I am greatly interested to hear about Holden Winlock
and Hagen's proposed, or so far carried out, work — and
it will be a very good and useful work when we get it.
But now that the Lick Observatory is fairly under weigh,
I do hope that Holden will devote himself entirely to
original research, and to the work proper to that fine
institution.    Of course if the work was done, or Holden 's
part of it, when he had no special observing to do, well
and good, but a man with a 36-inch telescope, 5000 or
6000 feet above sea level, should leave compilation to be
done by men who have no such opportunity and dwell in
more commonplace abodes.          I shall say nothing about
the matter, as Holden does not wish it mentioned, but I
am much obliged to you for telling me. I have a great
            ******
desire to see the Lick Observatory — and my friend
Holden also.      He is a most charming as well as a most
able man, and I hope he will stick to the great work
where he has so splendid an opportunity.
   Let Halley wait. I found the remains of the founda
                                 "                   "
                                                       at St.
tions of his observatory on         Halley 's Mount
Helena, and if you come here via St. Helena or return
that way you might make a pilgrimage to the spot.
   [Here follow several pages about the controversies
concerning the astrographic chart and catalogue.]
   I  have been dipping into Lockyer's papers in Nature,
but in honest truth I have had no time to read, mark,



 X887-8]       MISS CLERKE'S        ARRIVAL                203
learn and inwardly digest them — but so far as I have
gone I think he has hit on some very ingenious ideas and
explanations — but that the secrets of the universe are
yet fully unfolded and explained I agree with you in
thinking hardly to be the case.
   Now to come to other matters.
   [Here follow instructions about choice of a cabin.]
   Perhaps if anything turns up I shall write you next
mail — if not, we shall simply expect you and wait to
hear by what steamer you resolve to sail. Steamers
often arrive at night; in that case simply remain on
board till I come for you — if you come during the day
you will probably find me at the quay before your ship
is alongside.
   Miss Clerke is coming. Gaudeamus igitur ! !
   Always sincerely yrs,                      David Gill.
                  To Miss E. M. Clerke
                (Sister of Miss  A.M.  Clerke)
                     Cape  of Good Hope, September 18, 1888.
   My dear Miss Clerke, — Coming events cast their
shadows before.      The peacock who had lived in retire
ment for some time came forth resplendent in a new tail —
the tortoise that had come from Madagascar with Father
Perry's Transit of Venus expedition laid a nest of eggs —
the hillside became a richer carpet of flowers than ever
we had seen before — and then we knew that Miss Agnes
Clerke must be coming. And come she has, safe and
well. She proved herself a good sailor, made herself
most delightful and popular on board, and is now delight
ing everybody at the observatory.          We have rather
burst into festivity too — we are actually going out three
times within a week — a thing I have not done for years —
but my observations come on in the early morning just
now, so that no loss of work results.
   Your sister sits opposite me in my study with a pile
of books on either hand, which is gradually growing till
she seems to be coming through a gate with rather badly
built pillars on either side.
   At night she is to be found in the equatoreal — weather

  204         VISIT FROM MISS CLERKE                [Chap. XVII
  permitting, engaged in flirting with the spectra of variable
  stars. But, alas, the weather has not been very favour
  able for their proceedings — and Mr. Sawerthal and she
  play duets in the evening, or my wife reads aloud —
 whilst Major Morris and I smoke and yr sister occasion
  ally loses herself in the milky way, or rather in specula
  tion there anent. I am afraid you will find her a
  complete Bohemian when she returns to London.              She
 was awfully indignant at first at the bare idea of ever be
 coming Bohemian — but alas, observatory air and influences
 are too much for her.     You will find her quite Bohemian,
 if not " a fair Barbarian " when she comes back ! !—
 Forgive my nonsense, and believe me always sincerely
 yrs,                                         David Gill.
                  To E. B. Knobel, London
                 Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                             October 30, 1888.
     My dear Knobel, — I     send you by Miss Clerke, who
 sails from the Cape to-morrow, a paper which, I think,
 you will care to have for the Monthly Notices.          ...   I
 cannot tell you how much we have enjoyed our visit
 from Miss Clerke, and we are very sorry she is unable to
 prolong it. She has acquired a great deal of practical
 knowledge which will tell effectively in her next book,
 and not only this, but she has done a good deal of original
 work on the spectra of the Southern Stars. Her first
results will appear in the next number of the Observatory.
 I have often thought that such a work as her History
of Astronomy during the Nineteenth Century deserves some
recognition from the Society. It is not perhaps of the
character to entitle her to the medal — but even that is a
question about which a good deal could be said in favour
of her claims. In any case I think Miss Clerke may be
fairly entitled to the honour bestowed upon Miss Caroline
Herschel — that of honorary membership of the Society.
There are very few persons upon whom this honour might
be conferred to whom it would be of higher practical
value, as it would give her access of right to the use of
the library, which she can only consult at present as a
matter of favour.      Miss Clerke is engaged just now on
another important and more original work, and I feel
sure that such recognition of her efforts would cheer her

i88t-B]              A HAPPY VISIT                       205
in her work, which is certainly of a character which the
Society must desire to encourage.
   The subject is hardly ripe for a formal motion in Council,
and certainly should not be brought forward unless it is
sure to be nearly unanimously accepted. But if you
think well of the idea I should be glad if you would
ascertain the feeling of other members of the Council on
the matter. — With kind regards, I am, dear Knobel,
always sincerely yours,                       David Gill.
   In the middle of  a technical letter to Elkin we read —
   6  Nov   1888. — Miss   Clerke sailed for England last
 week. Her visit was a great pleasure to both of us.
 She plays the piano most exquisitely, as well as being
one of the ablest women and most original of thinkers
 that I ever met. She was also a great social success at
the Cape.    She was quite at home with an Equatoreal
 before she left, and did a lot of flirtation with star
spectra.
   The reader is strongly recommended to read the con
tinuation of letters to Miss Agnes Clerke at p. 363.

                         CHAPTER XVIII
                     DAYS OF SORROW       (1890-6)
Letters to E. B. Knobel —Three orphan nephews adopted —
      Successful results of computing — Sir Robert Ball — Offer
      of Cambridge professorship to Gill — Mrs. Gill's serious
      illness — Elkin's engagement.
   Happy is     the man who can say with    simplicity,  " Thy will  be
done !
         " — Charles Wagner of Paris.
The visit of the Gills to England in            1891 had no      very
great astronomical importance ; but it was the last time
that they were to see Mrs. Black, the mother of Mrs. Gill.
She died on February 9, 1892, aged eighty.
    Both before and shortly after this visit to England
in 1891, much sorrow fell to their lot. Gill was in the
habit of writing very intimately about private affairs to
Mr. E. B. Knobel.
                         To E. B. Knobel
                             Cape   of Good Hope,     1890, July 16.
    By this mail    I am  addressing a paper by Mr. H. Jacoby 1
...      to Mr. Wesley [Asst. Sec. R.A.S.].
   Jacoby has been working here at the Heliometer, and
has made these Tables as well as done observing and
some other computing.
    You will, I think, be pleased to hear that I have been
elected a Corresp* Member of the Berlin Academy.                      I
owe this very great honour, of course, to Auwers, but in
   1
     The American astronomer who visited the Cape for the
eclipse of 1890, stayed on for practical work at the Observatory,
and married Miss Maclear, daughter of the Cape Astronomer,
Sir Thomas Maclear.
                                 206

1890-6]         CHIEF ASSISTANT'S LOSS                        207
a very   kind letter which he sent me he tells me that the
 election was unanimous in all its four stages.
                      To E. B. Knobel
                                          1890, September 8.
   My wife's mother is old and was rather dangerously ill,
 and we intended to hurry home as soon as we could. . . .
But we have had so much better news that, in accord
ance with her wish, we are proposing to change our plan
so as not to have our holiday entirely in the winter,
which for my wife's sake I should like to avoid ; and we
          ******
should sail from the Cape about the middle of January.
                     To E. B. Knobel
                       Cape of Good Hope,  1892,   January   3.
   What a year of sadness the past one has been          !  and
the new year has commenced very sadly here also.             Six
months ago or less Finlay lost his eldest boy. He died
of consumption at Bloemfontein — and Finlay and his
wife arrived just in time to be too late for the end.      Rad,
their next boy, who was the baby when we came, died
within the past six hours. He has been in bed for over
three months — originally from typhoid fever — incurred
by drinking water from a tank over which some weaver
birds had built nests, as I think I told you. Tubercular
disease of the hip joint supervened, followed by a bilious
attack and 12 hours' vomiting.      This ruptured a blood
vessel, and he died suddenly this afternoon from cessation
of the heart's action. Poor Finlay is in terrible despair.
   Our own anxieties about my wife's dear sister Bessie I
think you know, and they are still a serious load to bear.
   God grant that the silver lining of the cloud may soon
show itself.
         ******
   In this year,   1892, Mr. Knobel visited the Cape for
his health.
                     To E. B. Knobel
                      Cape of Good Hope,  1892,  January   22.
   I send   this to the Union S.S. Office in Cape Town,
directing them to forward it to you.

208                 DAYS OF SORROW                   [Chap.   XVIII
   Thrice welcome, my dear friend, to South Africa. I
would that bad health had not been the cause of this
visit — which otherwise would be one of unalloyed pleasure
to us.
   Mr. Knobel stayed with the Gills some months, much
to their delight, and to the benefit of his health.
                       To E. B. Knobel
                 Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                                   1892,  May  31.
   My dear Knobel, — We have had              sad and sorrowful
times since you left.
   Just three weeks ago I had walked from Rondebosch
after a game of golf, and met the boy coming from the
station with a telegram. I opened it and read,
                                                          "
                                                            Maggie
died pneumonia send instructions."
   My poor sister — she had followed her husband very
soon.1 I got home before I realized the news and quite
broke down. My wife first did me good, by rousing me
to duty — pointing out that I was now the guardian of
Maggie's boys (5, 7 and 9 years old),2 and that we ought
to send for them : so as to bring them up by love and not
                      —
by mere authority and that they should come to us as
directly as possible from their mother's care.           I felt this
was right and set about making all necessary arrange
ments — we hope they will sail on July 23.
   This and many other matters have entirely engrossed
my time —so that I could not write to you — or rather
was not in the spirits to do so.
    I am only writing now by way of explanation of my
silence — and to tell you of the delight that yr wife's and
yr letters have given us.         Mad about golf — well, that
will do you no end of good.
    Ever, dear Knobel, yr loving friend, David Gill.
    From this date onwards the care of these nephews whom
they adopted was the greatest happiness to the Gills.
    When the little Powell boys took up their quarters at
the Observatory they became objects of life interest day
by day to Mrs. Gill. Her husband's occupations inter
fered with the continuity of his attentions to them, and
            [Mr. Powell had died a few weeks previously.]
          1
          2
            [Lady Gill says 4, 7 and 8 years old.]

1890-6]    HE ADOPTS THREE NEPHEWS                        209
at that time he was associated in their minds chiefly
with the pillow-fights in which he took part.
                                       "                 "
   But he was also made use of as the last resort           in
cases of disobedience. Lady Gill says that he was very
tolerant and knowledgeable in the ways of boys. When
his wife was in terror at their quarrels, David would say,
" Let them
              fight it out."
   When Mrs. Gill told Harry how cowardly it was to
                                       "
beat his little brother, the boy said,   How much am I to
                                            "
allow him to cheek me before I beat him ?      She referred
              husband,
                                   "
this to her              who said,   The boy has right on
his side if the young 'un is taking advantage of his being
so little. You will find that the best answer is that he
should wait till the next day before punishing him." As
the quarrels never lasted more than half an hour, the
next day brought no punishment and all went smoothly.
   During the great European war the two elder boys
have done splendid work for their country.           Captain
 Harry Powell (South Staffordshire Regiment) was killed
in action near Ypres in December 1914. Major Fred
 Powell (The Dorsetshire Regiment) was wounded in our
advance from the Persian Gulf, a shoulder wound, in June
 1915-
   He returned to the front in Mesopotamia, was twice
mentioned in dispatches, received the Military Cross, was
again and more seriously wounded, and sent home to
recover.
   Bruce Powell was engaged upon engineering duties in
 South Africa. He then came to London, having made
the voyage to give his services in the war, and got a
 commission in the Artillery.
   Extract from letters from Gill at the Cape to E. B.
Knobel in London.
                       To E. B. Knobel
                                              1892, July  6.
   The mails and cables, whose arrival we had begun to
 dread, have now ceased to bring bad news — as they did
     p

210                 DAYS OF SORROW              [Chap.  XVIII
almost every week for a time, telling of the death of, or
a disaster to, friends.
    The two last mails bring news of a different sort : —
                                                       " Pour
    My good friend Auwers has received the order
la merite," which I regard as the highest distinction open
to a literary or scientific man; Vogel has been elected a
Corrs Member of the Berlin Academy — and the R1 Society
of Edinburgh have done me the honour of electing me an
Honorary Fellow (their list is limited to 20 Hon* Fellows
who are British subjects, who must be highly distinguished
in science or literature, and includes Owen, Huxley, Airy,
Tennyson, Froude, Rayleigh, etc.).
   But it is again the antipodes of good news that you
are again feeling the pains in yr head — halve yr hours of
work—double yr hours of golf and take things more
easily.
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                              1892, July lb.
   My dear Knobel, . . . — Many thanks for all your
kind sympathy — I fear the little chaps will have sailed
long ere this reaches you. They leave by the Tartar on
July 23. A new species of cares are upon me already —
tuition, male or female — tonsils enlarged, should they be
cut or not — should the eldest boy's wish for promotion
          ******
from knickerbockers to trowsers be granted, etc., etc.
[In] these things I should right gladly have had you to
consult with.    However, I daresay I shall know all about
them very soon.
   Your triumphant account of yr golf experiences at
first rather staggered me — but I find after all that you
have to pass through the valley of affliction like other
mortals. But get used to the driver at any cost; you
will never enjoy the game till you do.
   My wife is wonderfully well — we both send our love to
you and y™ ever dear old man, sincerely yours,
                                            David Gill.
                     To E. B. Knobel
                        Cape Observatory, 1892, December 7.
   I am toiling away at the completion of the Victoria
and Sappho observations. The results are of extra
ordinary interest and of high accuracy. The half of the
final equations for Victoria are solved, and in a few

 1890-6]          STARTLING RESULTS                      211
 weeks will be completed.      The Tabular quantities and
 differential coefficients for Sappho are computed, and
 being finally revised.
                     nTo E. B. Knobel
                                         1892, December 21.
    Take the Victoria observations that are now reduced.
 They yield a value of the ©r parallax so exact, the
 different groups agreeing with such precision that I am
 confident it will be accepted by astronomers generally
 as definitive.  But like the good gentleman who went
 out to seek his father's asses and found a kingdom, — so
it has been with Victoria.
    The Lunar equation, as you know, was determined by
 Leverrier from a century of Greenwich, Paris and
Koningsberg observations of the Sun, and everybody has
supposed it to be correct.
    The practical fact is that where the individual errors
may and do amount to 2" or 3* (arc), as they often do in
observations of the Q's R. A., you cannot determine by
any number of such observations small quantities with
 the necessary accuracy.     So with the Lunar Equation.
When all the great mass of Victoria obs. made with the
Heliometer are combined in conjunction with the tri-
angulation of the comparison stars, we have for the first
time in the history of Astronomy a series of planetary
observations equal in accuracy to the most refined
observations for stellar parallax.   The result is that for
the 15 groups into which the obs. are divided, the differ
ence between the Tabular and observed R. A.'s are all on
a curve whose amplitude is over o"1 thus [sketch of a
sine curve], and DeclM also —that both curves agree
absolutely in the period of the moon's revolution — the
maximum and minimum of curves agrees with the epoch
when the planet's and moon's longitudes differ 900, and
the relative amplitudes agree with a correction of — o'-1
to Leverrier's value 6" 50 of the Lunar Equation. Mark
now the extraordinary value of this.
   We have got from these observations not merely the
most valuable determination extant of the ©r parallax —
which puts an end to all doubt about that constant, and
therefore gives us the Earth's mass, but it gives us, com
bined with the Lunar Equation, by far the most accurate
determination of the Mass of the Moon — and practically

212                DAYS OF SORROW                 [Chap. XVIII
           ******
will put our new Astronomical Constants on a sound and
satisfactory basis.    The parallactic Inequality of the
moon will be deduced with far greater accuracy than it
can be observed — so probably will the Nutation Constant.
    We have had the saddest news about the health of my
wife's dear sister Bessie, who was just about to visit us
at the Cape — so sad and serious that we may have to run
home for a few weeks next month.
    As it turned out Miss Bessie Black's state of health
was now so alarming that the Gills had to make a rapid
journey from Cape Town to Aberdeen and back at the
beginning of 1893.
                  To Professor Kapteyn
                      Cape  of Good Hope,   1892, November 9.
    This year our climate has gone entirely to the bad.
The antarctic ice has come far north.        It is stated that
 icebergs  have  been  seen within  60 miles   of the Cape of
 Good Hope. Be that as it may, we have had such a
           ******
 season of cloud as I have never seen before.         I was up
 every morning in July, August and September for Aberra
 tion —latitude, zenith telescope observations, and just
 got three observations in each month.
           ******
    I have been plunged deep, smothered in fact, by the
Victoria and Sappho parallax business.          Newcomb has
been pressing me to finish it by the end of the year.         I
only hope it won't finish me.
    I told you I think about the death of my sister and her
husband within six weeks of each other, and that her
three little boys — my nephews — are now with us, ages 5,
8 and 9 years.     They are fine little fellows and thriving
splendidly.    My wife is working at Latin, and is devoted
 to them.
                  To Professor Kapteyn
                                           1892, December 28
    The Solar Parallax is 8".8o.
    Leverrier's value of the Lunar Eqn must be reduced
 by — 0*11, and becomes 6""3g.

1890-6]      REFUSES     CAMBRIDGE       CHAIR            213
    In the  same year, 1892, Professor Ball succeeded to
Professor   J.  C. Adams' chair, and became head of the
Observatory at Cambridge. The following letters            are
interesting.    The Chair was offered to Dr. Gill, but       he
insisted that he could do more good for astronomy           by
completing the plans of work which he had laid down        for
himself at the Cape of Good Hope.
          From Sir Michael Foster, Sec. R. S.
                    Shelford, Cambridge, February 23,  1892.
    My dear    Gill, — I got your letter to-day. . .  .  Your
telegram did not surprise me; indeed, I think you are
 quite right, and felt some compunctions in making you
 expend anything on a wire. But it was agreed ubique
 el ab omnibus that you were the man to have the post if
 you would take it, and when I spoke to you at the Royal
nothing definite was said. Hence I and some friends
 agreed that it would not do to go on without a definite
 refusal from you. We had a faint hope that perhaps at
 the last you might give in, but we feared to get such a
 reply as did arrive.
     I can only say that I think the appointment of your
 self would have met with applause all round. . . .
     Ever yours,                              M. Foster.
        Letter from Dr.     Gill to Professor    Ball
                 Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                             March  9, 1892.
     I have just heard that you have been elected Adams'
 successor   at Cambridge, and I write at once to con
 gratulate you, or rather to tell you how much I think
 Cambridge is to be congratulated.     I did not think they
 would be able to tempt you from Dublin, and I won
 dered where a suitable man could be found. There is a
 noble transit circle and the makings of a grand equa-
 toreal, and I think it would have been a thousand
 pities if these had been put in the hands of a man who
 is only a mathematician.      Besides all the possibilities
 which your equipment presents, there is a great mass of
 Adams' unfinished work which astronomy stands sorely
 in need of.

 214                  DAYS OF SORROW                [Chap. XVIII
      When George Darwin was made Plumerian Professor I
 urged him to take up the Theory of Jupiter's Satellites, and
 the construction of new tables. He began the work, and
 after labouring for some time went to Adams to discuss
 some of its points with him.      Adams took him to a closet,
 whence he produced papers showing that all Darwin had
 been working at for a year had already been done by
 himself, and indeed more, so, seeing that he was working
 on ground already occupied, Darwin went no further.
     If Darwin and you, in conjunction with W. G. Adams,
 would take up the editing of J. C. Adams's unpublished
 papers, you would confer a great boon on astronomers,
 and help also to erect a great memorial to your great
 predecessor.1     The fact of the existence of these papers
 has deterred many an able young man from entering a
 field of work in which he knew that Adams had been
 working before him.
     Forgive my presumption in making these suggestions.
 I only make them now because I know that very soon
you must have completed your working programme, and
if my suggestion is of any value now it would then be
too late, because your hands would be otherwise full.
     In this connexion it will not   be  out of place to quote
the words of Sir Robert Ball some years later in speaking
of Sir David Gill at a dinner at Trinity College, Dublin.
He said —
    He is one of my oldest friends. He is the most dis
tinguished practical British astronomer since Bradley
who has presided over one of our national observatories.
As Royal Astronomer at the Cape of Good Hope, he has
made discoveries more valuable than all the treasures of
the Rand.       He now draws near to the close of his service.
We give to him the heartiest of welcomes, not so much
for his practical services, not so much for his great dis
coveries; we welcome him as one who, with the purest
and most single-minded purpose, has devoted himself to
the search after truth.2
   1
      [This has been done by Professor R. A. Sampson, in associa
tion with the late Professor W. G. Adams, and Mr. J. W. L.
Glaisher.]
                               of Sir Robert Ball, edited by W.
   * Reminiscences and Letters
Valentine Ball. Cassell, 1915, p. 274.

1890-6]  .      PROFESSOR       KAFTEYN                  215
   The next date of importance in Dr. Gill's career was
the year 1896, the fifth visit to England and the third
of those which mark milestones (1884, 1887, 1896) in his
progress.
   Before that date, however, there was a renewal of the
days of sorrow. For the year 1895 brought to every one
in the Observatory the greatest sorrow of all. There had
been many occasions when Mrs. Gill's ill-health clouded
the horizon. But never for very long had her bright
and cheerful company ceased to enliven the household.
Never for very long had she been unable to help her
husband's leisure moments by lively conversation, or
by reading while he smoked quietly in the intervals of
work.
   In May 1895 a change came, and she was utterly
prostrated.
   A long letter from the Cape to Professor Kapteyn,
dated 1895, April 9, about the completion of the C.P.D.,
contains, towards its close, the following expressions —
   It is a great satisfaction to me to think — on no less
authority than that of yr own dear wife — that the Durch-
musterung has not been over much work for you.              I
mean that you are physically and mentally better and
not worse for your labours.     I also congratulate myself
that the material furnished to you —however many its
imperfections — have enabled you to do so much, and to
establish for yourself a reputation and position amongst
the astronomers of yr time such as few men of your age
enjoy.
   Above all I rejoice in the true friend I have found in
you — may that friendship ever grow with our years.
                 To Professor Kapteyn
             Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                          February 8, 1896.
   My dear Kapteyn, — By the same mail with this
letter I am sending to the printers my introduction to
the Cape Photo. Dm, and I owe you an apology for my
delay. The fact is that I have been overwrought, not

 216                DAYS OF SORROW               [Chap. XVIII
 so much with my work as with the terrible anxiety and
 strain connected with the nervous illness of my dear wife.
 Week after week I found myself quite unable to write
 anything, and when I was in working condition I was
 often obliged to devote my time to correspondence and
 plans connected with the new McClean Telescope.        First
 and last I have drawn, sketched or described every detail
 of the Instrument,       its Objective prism attachment,
 micrometers, spectroscope, observatory with rising floor,
 etc., etc., and in many cases discussed and re-discussed
 alterations proposed by Mr. McClean or Grubb, etc.
    The completing of the account of the Geodetic Survey
 of South Africa, of which the last proof sheet has gone to
 press, has also pressed heavily upon me — as well as a
 great deal of private and other correspondence which my
 dear wife used to take off my hands.
    The Doctors seem to think she will be able to sail with
 me (accompanied by a nurse) to England on the ist of
 April. . . .
    About my Introduction
 " The
                                I am afraid you will say,
         mountain has been in labour and has brought
 forth a mouse."     It is indeed a very insignificant thing
 to have occupied so long a time, but I pray God you may
never have to execute work under similar difficulties, or
know the effort which work has cost me during the past
nine months.
    The letters received by Dr. Gill about this period, both
at the time of the Jameson raid and throughout the
South African war, from men who were in the thick of
these affairs, bear testimony to the soundness of judgment
with which he was credited. Years hence some of these
may be worth publishing as facts of history.        The bio
grapher who has been privileged to read them must for
the present be content to note the eagerness with which
all administrators, civil, naval and military, sought his
calm judgment in those critical times.
    One of these letters, from so distinguished an observer
and artist as Mr. Furze, who, after a visit to the observa
tory, was in Johannesburg in 1895-6, is filled with interest
ing descriptions of what happened at the time of the

 1890-6]         ELKIN'S ENGAGEMENT                       217
 Jameson raid, with a keen insight into deductions, shared
by Gill, concerning revolutions and national charac
teristics. But these details must be omitted.        The be
ginning and end, however, of this letter illustrate the
value attached to that time by thoughtful observers to
the friendship of Dr. and Mrs. Gill. The letter begins
                   "
with the words,      My dear philosopher and friend." It
ends as follows  —
   Please write and tell me how Mrs. Gill is.       Give her
my kindest regards and tell her that if I stay here long
I feel I shall be drawn into the maelstrom of stocks and
shares, and shall want a lot of her society to fumigate my
moral atmosphere.
   The same year (1896) brought them joyous news from
their dear friend Elkin in the United States. The affec
tion that existed between them was touching in its
tenderness.    We read in history of many a Damon and
Pythias, of many a pair of men whose mutual affection
left self altogether out of account. It is doubtful if ever
there was another astronomer who had so many of these
whole-hearted, self-denying friendships, in each one of
which either partner was literally ready to sacrifice
everything for his friend. The anguish suffered by
David Gill when one of his dearest friends was in trouble
was balanced only by his exuberance of boyish joy when
good fortune attended him.
                       To Dr. Elkin
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                             1896, March 3.
   My dear Elkin, — I have postponed for      a  mail or two
answering your letter and its glorious good news in the
hope that my dear wife would be able to send a few lines
with mine. But I am sorry to say she is not yet able,
having been not so well during the past three weeks. In
nervous depression anything that touches the emotions
is the thing that is most trying, and Bella feels so much
sympathy with you in this that she is quite unable to write.

218                 DAYS OF SORROW              [Chap. XVIII
   But you know right well how truly sorry we both are
that the bright and joyous congratulations which would
have accompanied mine cannot be written —tho' Bella
sends them in her heart all the same.       How truly glad
we are that the bit of yourself that you lost is coming
back to you with a charming addition — you can readily
         ******
imagine, and I hope with all my heart that ere long we
shall be able to meet you in double harness as happy and
cosy as it is possible for man and wife to be — and we both
also well and able to share your happiness.
   God bless you, old man. If an earnest, capable man
like yourself —a loyal friend as I have ever found you —
cannot make a little woman happy, then I am very much
mistaken.
   I can wish you and your bride no better wish than
that you may be as happy as we have been for 25 years
of our married life — yes, and except these bonds — are
now to the present day.
   Bella joins me in loving messages to you —and, if we
may, also to her. — Ever thine,              David Gill.

                     CHAPTER XIX
            PATIENCE REWARDED         (1896
                                            — 1901)
Home on leave — Astronomical recognition of results — St. Moritz
     and Paris — Reversible transit circle — Victoria Telescope —
     Bryan Cookson.
The last chapter has       been the narrative     of a sad page
in the story of Gill's life.      But there were compensa
tions, and none greater than the magnificent offer by
Mr. Frank McClean, in 1894, of a splendid telescope,
with accessories, for the Cape Observatory.           It was not
set up and completed until 1901, so the continuity of
the narrative will be better maintained by relegating the
delightful episode to later pages of this chapter, and by
now recounting briefly some important events which
occurred during the visit to England, Paris and St.
Moritz in 1896.
                        To Dr. Elkin
                          6 BD du Chateau    Neuilly, Paris,
                                                  1896, June 27.
   My dear Elkin, — And       so you are off, and the wedding
trip over. Would that we could have shared some of it
with you. But I am thankful to tell you that Bella has
been on the whole improving in health, and the doctor
thinks that in course of three weeks or so she will be able
to travel to Switzerland.
   I crossed to London on the night of Thursday June 11,
to see about some business at the Admiralty, and about
some affairs between Grubb and McClean which were
 giving trouble.
   I was staying with our old friend Adm1 Sir F. Richards.
On Saturday night I got a telegram from the clerk of
 Session of the Glasgow University to say that my invita
                               219

220             PATIENCE REWARDED                [Chap.  XIX
tion to the Kelvin Jubilee had gone to the Cape.        They
had heard I was in London and hoped I would come.
   I started off on Sunday night.
   It was a very grand and very interesting function.
Representatives from all parts of the world were there,
and many that I was very glad to meet.      I was specially
glad to see Cleveland Abbe and many others whom I
shd have had no other opportunity of meeting.
   The whole function was delightful to me, for Lord
Kelvin has been one of my earliest and best friends —
and the love and reverence paid him by all were a great
joy to me.
   I returned with Newcomb on the Wednesday and
          ******
crossed to Paris on the Thursday — and found Bella better
during the week I had been away. Madame de Mont-
mort had been a good angel to her, and had stayed at
this place with her during my absence.
   I am being spoilt by kindness. Every one here is so
kind, and on Monday they made me a Correspondent of
         ******
the Institute (Acad. des Sciences) in succession to Cayley.
It seems a mockery to put me to succeed such a great
man, but indeed Cayley shd have been elected under the
section of geometry — and not of Astronomy as he was.
   Bella joins me in love to yr dear Katy and yr self. —
Ever thine,                                 David Gill.
   It was during the residence in Paris at this time that
on May 20, 1896, Gill received the Companionship of
the Bath. This was the final act in an amusing comedy
sometimes told to his most intimate friends by Gill.
He had been told earlier that he was to be received into
the order of St. Michael and St. George.          Now, Gill
had noted with disgust the bestowal of the K.C.M.G. on
utterly unworthy politicians at the Cape; so, in reply,
he flatly refused to be associated in Cape Colony in this
way with such characters. The Admiralty understood their
astronomer, and he got the C.B. and eventually the K.C.B.
   After the Astrographic Congress at Paris in 1896, Gill
attended there the important meeting of the Directors

1896-1901]       HIS RESULTS ACCEPTED                     221
of National Ephemerides [alias Nautical Almanacs], who
had to decide upon some of the astronomical constants
to be adopted in their calculations.      At this congress
Gill's value of the Mean Solar Parallax (and the sun's
distance), with the resulting value for the constant of
Aberration, also his value of the Mass of the moon, with
the resulting value of the constant of nutation, all derived
from his Minor Planet work by heliometer, were definitively
accepted by those astronomers from all parts of the world,
who calculate the data of national nautical almanacs.
   From Paris they went to St. Moritz for Mrs. Gill's health,
and before returning to London Gill was able to pay a
visit to Professor Kapteyn at Groningen, where he became
a great favourite with the Professor's children.
                   To Professor Kapteyn
                                  London,  1896, October
    ...
                                                         15.
          I arrived from Berlin on Saturday last . . ., but
only called at the R.A.S. to-day, and found the photo
graphs and the dear lassies' letters.     ...   I had such
a delightful time at Groningen, and am greatly delighted
with the photographs. I will write my little sweet
hearts in a few days.
    It was during his home visit in 1896 that Gill put
 forward his proposals for erecting at the Cape a transit
circle specially designed by himself for overcoming many
 of the systematic errors which limit the accuracy of
fundamental astronomy of position.         The Admiralty,
on the advice of Admiral Wharton, supported him. The
 request was immediately granted by the Treasury.
   At this date, 1896, the boundary of German South
 west Africa was a source of diplomatic friction.        Gill's
 surveys covered part of that region, and after a consul
 tation at the Colonial Office he was sent by Mr. Joseph
 Chamberlain to Berlin that a modus vivendi might be
 created.    His intimate knowledge of the situation and
 his tactful conduct were rewarded with success, and he

 222             PATIENCE REWARDED                    [Chap.  XIX
 received the thanks of the Foreign Office.           The boun
 dary survey was afterwards carried out, Gill acting as
 Director for both governments.
    Having briefly indicated some of the incidents attend
 ing the visit to Europe in 1896, it may be well to state
 now that there were only two later visits home, in 1900
 and 1904, before the final departure from South Africa in
  1906.  The former of these was the first real holiday
 which he had enjoyed since he went to the Cape in 1879.
 The latter was much occupied in preparations for the
 visit in 1905, of the British Association for the Advance
 ment of Science, to South Africa, the local arrangements
 for which were left almost entirely in Sir David Gill's
 hands. During both of these absences he was able to
 leave the conduct of the observatory in the able hands
 of Mr. S. S. Hough, who eventually succeeded him on his
 retirement in 1907. The great reversible Transit Circle
 and the Victoria Telescope were not completed until
 1901-2. Of these we will now say a few words.
    The Transit Circle is the principal instrument used by
astronomers for finding the absolute positions of any
heavenly bodies, and the only kind of instrument that
 has been proved to be fit for obtaining the fundamental
 data of astronomy.       But all instruments made by human
 hands are imperfect, and Gill considered that it was
 the first duty of a practical astronomer to reduce these
 imperfections to a minimum.          What his duty afterwards
may be is well expressed in a letter to Professor Kapteyn
 from the Cape, dated so far back as 1885, January 18.
    But however perfect an instrument         may be {and    it is
the astronomer's business       to see  that it is perfect), it is
the astronomer's      further business to look upon it        with
complete   and  utter  mistrust.
    Gill had discovered, in        1877, a   personal error, in
using the transit circle, varying with the magnitude of
the star; and, in 1880, one depending on the star's

 1896-1901]    THE NEW TRANSIT CIRCLE                     223
 traversing the wires from left to right or from right to
 left. Again, he had      noticed the inequalities of tem
 perature inside and outside the conventional transit
 house, and these create errors by atmospheric refraction.
 Temperature-changes affect the levels of the piers upon
 which the instrument rests, as well as their uprightness,
 and also affect the size of the circle divisions and their
 distance from the reading-microscopes.       The local heat
 ing from an observer's body or from the illuminating
 lamps may be sufficient to introduce error. There is
 always a certain flexure of the telescope tube varying
 with the altitude of the star observed, and he had found
 that the strain is not always in the same plane as the
 stress. The meridian marks employed to test the setting
 of the instrument cannot always be fixed with absolute
 permanence.
    Gill sought for remedies to reduce all these and other
sources of error to a minimum, and his completed design
was certainly original.      In the hands of almost any
 other man it would have been condemned as experi
 mental. When the writer inspected it, during con
 struction, at the works of Troughton & Simms, the late
Mr. James Simms made some remark which meant :
 " No
        one but Gill would have ventured upon so great a
departure from the orthodox design of a transit circle."
A full decision as to the success of this great invention will
be possible only after many years of actual work with it.
    The final result can be described only in technical
language, and can be appreciated only by the practical
astronomer who is also an engineer.          Such a one, in
studying the published description with the accompany
ing detailed drawings, cannot fail to be impressed by the
ingenuity and boldness with which he overcame the
difficulties in his way.
    A single case may be here mentioned. A very serious
trouble arose from the absence of good foundations for
his meridian marks. Even in his Dun Echt days he had

224               PATIENCE REWARDED                     [Chap.  XIX
been inclined to supplement his collimating telescopes by
distant meridian marks viewed through a lens of about
300 feet focus as at     Pulkowa.       In adopting this plan    he
had to fix the marks and the lenses very firmly, with as
little liability as possible to any kind of shifting. Under
the conditions existing at the Cape observatory, he event
ually dug pits of great depth and fastened his apparatus
to the solid nucleus of the world, the very ancient geo
logical formation called the Malmesbury beds, and, follow
ing Bohnenberger, he invented an optical device of the
highest merit for ensuring that certain marks, on the
top of his columns, built over the pits, should be exactly
over certain points fixed upon the Malmesbury beds.
The stability of these marks is now the envy of all
astronomers. So it was with all his difficulties.              They
disappeared under his skill as an engineer and designer
of instruments.
    The following quotation expresses the opinion of the
astronomical world upon Sir David Gill's beautiful device
for the meridian marks —
    Azimuths determined from these marks have been
proved so reliable that by comparison with stellar obser
vations even the variation of latitude, or rather the
complementary polar deviation, may be exhibited.                The
existence of these marks rendered possible Mr. Hough's
scrutiny of the periodic errors in R.A. of the Catalogues
of Newcomb and Boss.1
    Dr. Backlund, of Pulkowa Observatory,                speaks   of
this   instrument and its accessories as
                                                   "
                                                     constituting
presently    the  last  word   of  perfection."
    This opinion seems to agree with the general verdict
of astronomers, and with that of Mr. S. S. Hough, who
has had the experience of using it.
    One of the most delightful experiences met with by
Sir David Gill in any part of his scientific career
              1 R.A.S., M.N., lxxiii. 3; January, 1915.

1896-1901]   MR.    FRANK McCLEAN'S GIFT                    225
occurred when Mr. Frank McClean, of Rusthall House,
Tunbridge     Wells, a distinguished      spectroscopist and
amateur astronomer, wrote to him in the following
terms —
       Frank McClean, Esq., to Dr. David            Gill
                     Rusthall House, Tunbridge Wells,
                                             August  10, 1894.
   Dear Dr. Gill, — It     has been my wish for some time
past to offer a large Telescope, equipped for Photographic
and Spectroscopic work, to one of the Public Observa
tories in the Southern Hemisphere — and by preference
to the Royal Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope.
   With this object I have now arranged with Sir Howard
Grubb for the construction of a Photographic Refracting
Telescope of 24 inches aperture and 22 feet 5 inches focal
length. Also for an Object-Glass Prism to work with it,
having a refracting angle of      j\ degrees, and the same
aperture.    Coupled with the Photographic Telescope
there is to be a Visual Refracting Telescope of 18 inches
aperture. The Telescope Mounting is to give circum-
polar motion to the Telescope up to 30 degrees within
the zenith; the Mounting to be sufficiently elevated to
allow a fair-sized slit spectroscope, for the determination
of Stellar Motions in the line of sight, to be attached to
the Photographic Telescope. Such a spectroscope will
be subsequently provided, and also an Observatory of
light construction.
   May I ask if you, as Astronomer-Royal at the Cape,
would be willing to accept such an Instrument, and in
that case if the Official Trustees of the Observatory would
be prepared to provide any assistance necessary for its
efficient use?
   I remain, Dear Dr. Gill, Yours faithfully,
                                         Frank McClean.
        Dr.  Gill to Frank      McClean, Esq., M.A.
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                           1894, September 11.
   Dear Mr. McClean, — Your letter of the         10th August
duly reached me by last mail, and     I have no words which
 can adequately express my feelings on receipt of it.
   The splendid generosity of such a gift, the great scientific
     Q

226              PATIENCE REWARDED                [Chap. XIX
need which it fulfils, the prospect of the gratification of
scientific hope and aspirations which I have long cherished
and had sorrowfully begun to abandon — all these have
been constantly in my mind since the arrival of your
letter.
   As Her Majesty's Astronomer at the Cape           I thank
you for the noble gift which you propose to make to this
Observatory;     and subject to the approval of the Lords
Commissioners of the Admiralty, I cordially and grate
fully accept it.
   One can hardly doubt that such an offer will be met
by the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty and by
H.M. Treasury in a like generous spirit, and that they
will be prepared to consider the question of providing
the additional assistance necessary for the efficient use
of the instrument.
   A copy of your letter will be forwarded by this mail
to the Admiralty, together with a copy of this reply.
   I remain, dear Mr. McClean, Yours faithfully,
                                             David    Gill.
                       To Dr. Elkin
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                         1894, September 11.
   My dear Elkin, — Your kind letter of the 7th August
came with one of the most exciting mails I ever had in
my life. . . .
   The exciting incident of last mail was a letter from
 Mr. Frank McClean intimating his desire to present, to
 the R1 Observatory C. of G. Hope, a refractor of 24 inches
 aperture corrected for photographic work fitted with an
 object glass prism of j\° of the same aperture as the
 object glass.   Coupled with the 24* photo telescope is
 to be an 18* aperture refractor corrected for visual work.
 The mounting to be strong enough and high enough to
 carry a large slit-spectroscope for stellar motion in line
 of sight — the gift includes such a spectroscope as well
 as an observatory of light construction.      The glass for
 prism and object glasses has been secured and a contract
 entered into with Grubb on May 7 for the construction of
 the whole. I fancy the whole gift means at least £8000.
    I need hardly say that, subject to the approval of the
 Admiralty, I have cordially and gratefully accepted this
 splendid gift. . . .

1896-1901]          VICTORIA TELESCOPE                          227
    Fred, our second little chap, fell from his pony some
2 months ago and broke three of his ribs, slightly wound
ing the lung.       He is all right again. Our news about
Bessie is as sad as ever. — Thine ever,              David Gill.
    In  a   letter to Professor Kapteyn he tells of his
astonishment and delight on receiving Mr. McClean's
        "
letter     which fairly took my breath away." 1
    The offer of this noble instrument by Mr. Frank
McClean was almost the last touch required for realizing
Gill's plans for his observatory, and enabling the Cape
 Observatory to take its place as the premier one in the
 southern hemisphere, on a par with the best of those
 already existing in the northern.           By the time when this
 telescope was erected the Cape Observatory under Sir
 David Gill's guidance had risen to occupy a first place
 in all the world for the accuracy of its measurements of
 position, which are the basis of the old astronomy.
    The new telescopes and spectroscopes, with an adequate
 staff, would enable the constitution and radial motions 2
 of the southern stars to be studied as effectively as those
 of the northern stars.
    This delightful experience recalled his disappointment
 fifteen years previously, when the authorities at home
 refused their sanction to the purchase of a powerful
 telescope, or to the loan, for Gill's use, of the largest
 telescope in England, then offered by Mr. Newall.               The
  capabilities of that telescope for the most refined spectro
 scopic work have since been amply proved by Professor
  Newall at Cambridge.             Perhaps if Gill's wish had
  been granted on his arrival at the Cape, he would not
  have been able to confine his attention so entirely to
  measurement of position.           In that case he might not,
  at this date, when the Victoria telescope came into his
  hands, have reached the position he then held, as the
  most competent practical astronomer in the world as
              1
                See p. 391.
              * Or, velocities of stars in the line of sight.

228              PATIENCE REWARDED                [Chap. XIX
regards fundamental positions and micrometrical measure
ments. Who can say?         What seemed to be a calamity
in 1880 may have been a fortunate incident for Gill, as
well as for the science of astronomy.
    Sir Howard Grubb was the maker of the new telescope.
He and Gill had often worked together with scientific
zeal harmoniously and successively. But in this case
there was not that complete success which bound them
together in the interests of science on so many occasions
previously and subsequently.       The delays were heart
rending, and the instability of mounting had to be
 corrected and the electric attachments remodelled, in
workshops at the Cape, while the great object glass was
returned to be refigured. It was not until 1901 that
Mr. Frank McClean's great gift was ready for use.
    In 1897, with the fullest expectation that the instru
ment would be ready in that year, Mr. McClean visited
 the Cape.    While there he attached his own object glass
 prism to the astrographic telescope, and was thus enabled
to complete that remaining portion of his spectroscopic
survey of the whole heavens which could not be completed
from his own observatory in Kent.
     The following letter gives the impressions of Mr.
           ******
 McClean's visit —
                   To Miss Agnes Clerke
                       Cape of Good Hope, 1897, September 4.
     We had quite a delightful visit from Mr. McClean, and
 we became fonder and fonder of him.
     He has been doing splendid work — and has already
 photographed the spectra of about 100 stars — some of
 them frequently — and will complete here, for the whole
 sky, his photographs of the spectra of all stars to 3$
 magnitude. . . . He has found some wonderful things
 here — of which, however, I may not speak.         Mr., Mrs.
 and Miss McClean arrived a fortnight or so ago. They
 are all living at the Queen's Hotel, Sea Point, and are
  all as happy as possible.

 1896-1901]        MR.   FRANK McCLEAN                       229
   Mr. McClean pops over here as often as he pleases.
He shows up if I go round to see how workmen are getting
on.    There is a very nice office or observer's room attached
to the McClean building, which is his sanctum sanctorum
— of which he keeps the key. Or I may be busy writing
at night — about 11.30 p.m. when in pops Mr. McClean
to say he has come from Sea Point to make a late night
of it. He photographs away till daylight —then develops
his pictures and is back at Sea Point before 8.30 to
breakfast. . . .
   I have been greatly inspired by Mr. McClean's work,
and am burning to do somewhat similar work at first. . . .
   Yes — is not Roberts [Dr. Roberts of Lovedale] delight
ful ? He is soaking in rest and sea air — and his letters
are like a bit of a novel of Black's — only with a less
forced and more genuine ring about them.
   I paid a pilgrimage to Lovedale the other day in com
pany with Earl Grey. Before going home he was anxious
to see Lovedale and to start a somewhat similar model
of institution for training natives in Rhodesia.
   He insisted on my going with him, and we had a per
fectly charming 6 days together, travelling 1716 miles
(112 of which by cart) to spend an evening a night and
morning at Lovedale.        We had glorious weather, an ex
cellent saloon carriage, good cook and every comfort. —
and such a crack and such stories with much tobacco.
   Mr. McClean's visit gave great happiness to the Gills,
and was made memorable by his discovery of the exist
ence of oxygen in the spectra of a certain class of stars;
and    for   this  discovery and his spectroscopic labours
generally he was awarded the gold medal of the Royal
Astronomical Society of London in 1899.
   During the period of erection of the great telescope
Gill's correspondence with Mr. McClean seldom if ever
missed a mail.        Photographs at every stage were sent
home, and their correspondence included discussions
on many astronomical subjects, until Mr. McClean's
 death.1
   After the Victoria      telescope   and transit   circle were
           1
             Mr. Frank McClean died November    8, 1904.

230              PATIENCE REWARDED                [Chap. XIX
set up, say from 1902, there was much tentative          work
to do, and many measurements had to be made for        intro
ducing the necessary corrections of observed data. Up
to the date of final departure from South Africa in 1906,
Gill had no opportunity to complete any new researches
with his latest instrumental weapons.
   But he was able to make a start on some researches,
and to leave in the hands of his successor one of the
finest and best     equipped observatories in the world,
practically built up by himself; and his successor, Mr.
S. S. Hough, has made splendid use of it already.
    He also left to his successor a colony of workers, most
of whom were filled with the spirit of their chief and with
an isprit de corps which reflects honour equally upon
Sir David and Lady Gill.
    Dr. A. Roberts was and is engaged on industrial mission
work among natives at Lovedale, Cape Colony, and has
an observatory where he had done splendid work upon
variable stars which, to Gill's great sorrow, he had not
published.    They were affectionate friends and constant
correspondents.
    At the time of Earl Grey's visit to Lovedale, Dr.
Roberts was in Scotland, and Gill wrote to him
about it.
                    To Dr. A. Roberts
                 Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                            1897, August 30.
    My dear Roberts, — Yr letter of July 14 gave me much
 pleasure — It was in part like a bit out of one of Black's
novels — only with a truer ring about it. You couldn't
 possibly do better than drink in the Spirit of the North
 — I mean of course its long summer starless nights, its
 nooks and headlands, the screaming gulls, the smell of
 the kelp, the swish and the roar — the brown-sailed herring
 boats — the changing colours of the sea — and all the
 glorious things that make up a contemplative dander
 by the shore into a temporary heaven.     These things and
 their spirit rest a man —the thick-headed laddies that

1896-1901]      ROBERTS     OF LOVEDALE                 231
cannot see why things equal to the same thing must be
equal to each other are pleasing memories rather than
daily and hourly worries. Even free kirk ministers
who find it difficult to understand why a variable star
can be a thing worthy of interest to a reasonable and
reasoning human being — can become in such circum
stances    objects of sympathetic pity rather than of
worry.
   No, my good friend, you have been getting a lot of
human sympathy which you had long been without —
and now kind nature has said to your soul — I bring you
peace and rest, just live with me awhile. — You are wise
and have done as she bade you — and you will live to be
thankful that you have left your reductions alone till
the nerve-healing process is complete.
    I am delighted that you have seen Ld McLaren, Cope-
land, Huggins and Miss Clerke —they are all good and true
folk, loving science.
    You will perhaps be surprised to hear that I have been
visiting Lovedale —or rather that part of Lovcdale which
remains when you are away. Earl Grey came down from
Buluwayo on his way to England on Monday morning.
 I called on him, as an old friend, that afternoon. " Oh,
I am delighted to see you — I want a long talk with
you. You must come with me to Lovedale ! There's no
time for a talk now. I start to-morrow night.         We go
 straight  to Grahamstown,   drive  to Lovedale,  and spend
the afternoon on Friday, return on Saturday and see
 Grahamstown and start on Sunday morning on our way
back."
    I had much to arrange about the Geodetic Survey with
 him — which I have just started — and so accepted.     But
 our plans were not quite fulfilled to the letter. We were
told we shd arrive at Grahamstown in the afternoon —
 we arrived instead 4 hours late — in the dark.    We were
 told that Lovedale was 30 miles       off, Mr. Douglas the
 ostrich farmer was expecting us to breakfast. We found
 that Lovedale was 56 miles off and round by Mr. Douglas'
 farm it was 10 miles more — so probably Mr. Douglas'
 breakfast is still waiting for us ! We reached Lovedale
 at 5 p.m. with light enough to see yr observatory and a
 few things — a very pleasant dinner and evening with
 Dr. and Mrs. Stewart and family —up and about early
 next morning — to find most of the students away on

 232             PATIENCE REWARDED                [Chap. XIX
 holiday, but saw the fine schools and workshops, etc.,
 and some little work going on, but much to admire in
the order and beauty all around. Then Dr. Stewart
drove us 10 miles on our way, where our cart was out-
spanned and we reached Grahamstown hungry as hunters
at 7 o'clock in the evening.      We had two of the most
glorious cloudless days that the heart of man could
imagine and immensely enjoyed the whole thing.
   Earl Grey wanted information about industrial missions
and he got it — Dr. Stewart giving him a lot of notes and
          ******
advice.
   There is an English Church Missionary — not far from
King Williamstown.      ...  I think he will go to Rhodesia
to start the work there.
   Ever thine,                               David Gill.
   During this period Gill received a letter the gist of
which lies in the following     words —
                  From Bryan Cookson
                          Branlen Lodge, Beauly, N.B.
                                        September 21, 1897.
          ******
   Dear Dr. Gill, — I    am writing to ask you to give me
your   advice  about  my turning astronomer. My Father
has a very good business, but at present I am far from
liking the idea of entering it though it is a gold-mine.
   Yours sincerely,                     Bryan Cookson.
   The subject is introduced here to lead up to Gill's reply,
in which we find the most illuminating facts connected with
his first step into the ranks of professional astronomers.
The following letter enables any one to understand how
Sir David Gill looked back with satisfaction upon the
great decision, which moulded his life, in 1871.
            From D.    Gill to   Bryan Cookson
   You ask me a question so important to yourself that
in asking it I feel sure that you must attach importance
to my reply.
   My own experience in life is that a man is happy when

1896-1901]            BRYAN COOKSON                           233
his heart is in his work — and unhappy when his work is
uncongenial.
    I was removed from Aberdeen University before I
had completed my 4th year's course, to fill a place in my
father's business which became suddenly vacant by a
difference between my father and his partner.           I was in
business for 8 years, had        married, was making £1500 a
year, and working at night in my own observatory when
Lord Crawford offered me £300 a year to take the direc
tion of Dun Echt Observatory.             We had no children,
my wife knew where my heart lay. I had a little money
with reasonable expectations of more, and in 24 hours
Lord Crawford had my answer —yes. I never regretted
that decision — my life became full of interest, and has
so continued ever since.
    I was fortunate in my wife's sympathy, and I had
           ******
been accustomed to a much less expensive life than you
— had done a lot of distasteful drudgery and uninteresting
work, with few holidays and no deer-stalking ! In these
respects you see our cases are different.
    I
           ******
       must say that I have found business experience of
considerable use in my scientific career, but very dearly
purchased at the price of 8 years otherwise lost time.
    There is no good school of Astronomy in England.
At Cambridge you can have the              necessary outfit of
mathematics, and no doubt at Oxford also —in fact, you
have probably enough of mathematics to take up the rest
for yourself.
    For practical work the Greenwich system (tell it not
in Gath) has never made an astronomer.1                The chief
assistants are selected as young men with a sound
mathematical but no practical training.        They enter into
chief positions where they have to superintend men who
           ******
know much more about practical work than they do,
and they have to pick up what they can of a hard and
fast hide-bound system — which they are taught to regard
as unquestionably superior to all others.
    If  you are really in earnest about this matter        ...  I
      [Of course Gill was well aware that though that statement
   1
be true, yet cases do exist of a man making himself an astronomer
worthy of the name even under that system.]

         ******
234             PATIENCE REWARDED                [Chap. XIX
should like to take you here either as a student or — as
soon as there is a vacancy — as a computer.
   I have a very nice young fellow here, de Sitter, a young
Dutchman who has passed his Ph.D. examinations in pure
mathematics at Groningen cum laude, and has come out
to leam practical astronomy.     He is engaged from 9 to 3
just now    in  reducing my Heliometer observations for
stellar parallax at a table near me. At night he is learn
ing the use of the Geodetic Theodolite and Transit Circle.
From these he will go to the Heliometer — then to the
         ******
Equatoreal with the filar micrometer, the photometer and
the spectroscope,    and before he returns to Holland —
some two years hence — will have done some independent
work of his own.
   When you have had a couple of years of such training
you should be a good practical astronomer — Meanwhile
also you should keep up yr mathematical reading and
planetary theory. Then I would say go for a year or two
 under Poincar6 for theory, and then there should be no
man to compare with you as an astronomer.



                           CHAPTER XX
                LAST DAYS     AT THE CAPE (1902-6)
Work accomplished — Geodetic survey — Sir George Darwin —
      British Association — Retirement — Wharton's death — The
     completed    observatory — Stupendous     triple problem.
   He that would enjoy life and act with freedom must have the
work of the day continually before his eyes.      Not yesterday's work,
lest he fall into despair, nor to-morrow's, lest he become a visionary
—not that which ends with the day, which is worldly work, nor yet
that only which remains to eternity, for by it he cannot shape his
actions.
   Happy is the man who can recognize in the work of To-day a
connected portion of the work of life, and an embodiment of the
work of Eternity.                        James Clerk Maxwell.
A chapter upon the Last Days at the                  Cape may well
commence and end          with a retrospect.      David Gill's whole
life was spent in doing the work of to-day as a connected
portion of the work of life. His early gropings after a
sphere of action satisfying to his spirit ; his preparatory
labours at Dun Echt, Mauritius, Egypt and Ascension ;
and his transformation of the Cape establishment into
one of the finest observatories in the world, constantly
pouring forth its tale of invaluable results; were all
evidence of a continuous grappling with the work of to-day
as a connected portion of the work of life. According to
the dictum of his old master, he ought to be happy, and
he was happy. No other words could express his out
look upon the world. The observatory grounds, a para
dise in themselves, were filled with noble instruments, the
products of his zeal. The 6-inch Refractor, the 7-inch
 Heliometer,      the Astrographic         Telescope, the Zenith
Telescope, the 3-foot Altazimuth, the incomparable
                                  335

 236           LAST DAYS AT THE CAPE               [Chap.  XX
 Reversible Transit Circle, the Azimuth Marks, the mag
 nificent photographic, spectroscopic and visual Victoria
 Telescope, and even the magnificent though uncompleted
 Clock, all bore witness that the days and years had not
 been mis-spent.
    The large staff of assistants, computers, and photo
  graphic-plate measurers, had led to published results
 enriching the world both present and future.
    And his memory was filled with thoughts of young
 men who had sought his tutelage or assistance — Elkin,
 De Sitter, Jacoby, Cookson, Franklin- Adams, Innes most
 prominently — besides those of eminent astronomers in
 cluding Newcomb and Auwers, who had shared his
 labours or enjoyed his hospitality.
    The work of the day had been continually before his
 eyes — and he was happy.
    During a quarter of a century he had cumulative evi
 dence of how the work of to-day had become a connected
 portion of the work of life, and an embodiment of the work
 of Eternity.   South Africa was now better furnished than
 any other British colony with a geographic basis.        The
 star catalogues and routine work of an observatory had
 accumulated.    The chance afforded by a remarkable
 comet had created the Durchmusterung          and led the
 world's astronomers to claim his guidance in their inter
national catalogue of stars. He had been allowed to
 furnish the world with a definitive value of the sun's
mean distance, of stellar distances, the moon's distance,
and the moon's mass.       He had been able to fulfil Adams'
wish in obtaining the mass of Jupiter and the orbital
elements of his Galilean satellites ; and to supply New-
comb with refined observations of star occultations and
planetary positions ; and in many other ways had added
to the sum of human knowledge.
    The  last few years of residence at the Cape were
important with regard to the geodetic work upon which

1902-6]                 RETROSPECT                         237
he had been engaged for over a quarter of a century.
This is one of the most important, and lastingly so, of
all his contributions   to science, both in results attained
and in the introduction of new methods.
   Regarding the latter, he was one of the first to introduce
the Jaderin system of measuring a base line by means of
a catenary formed of wire under constant tension.            It
was he, too, who had most to do with introducing the
nickel-iron alloy invar, in the form of wire, for the same
purpose, and M. Guillaume, who has established the use
of invar, acknowledges his great indebtedness to Sir
David Gill. Then, again, Gill was certainly a pioneer
in the use of refined theodolites of moderate size, and of
the watch-telescope for checking azimuth observations.
He also laid stress on the liability of grazing rays to
deflections in azimuth.
   But the successful results were largely due to insistence
upon the great principle with which he started — to supply
South Africa, in the first place, with a primary geodetic
framework of triangulation into which all local work can
be fitted.
   A distinguished R.E. once expressed to the writer the
opinion that Gill would have done better by devoting
his resources more to local map-making and less to
scientific accuracy. The same accusation has been
levelled against his guidance of the Astrographic Con
gress.    History is not likely to support either contention,
and certainly
                " the                                 "
                      great apostle of the slapdash     is not
the man to guide the proceedings of an international
star catalogue or a vast geodetic survey.
   The great geodetic framework of South Africa inci
dentally gives us, by the meridian arc, most valuable
information about the figure of the earth, refraction and
local attraction of the plummet.
   The characteristic in Gill which has thus placed South
Africa so far ahead of the other self-governing colonies
was, perhaps, not so much his skill in planning and organiz

238            LAST DAYS AT THE CAPE                   [Chap. XX
ing, or in selection of material and personnel, as his
diplomacy, in getting the great administrators of terri
tories to know the interests of the colony, and to render
assistance financially and otherwise.          Sir Bartle Frere
and Sir George Colley in the first years; later, Cecil
Rhodes, Lord Grey, Lord Milner and many others were
essential to the success of his projects, and he won them
all over to lend their help.
    The climax of interest in the story of the meridian arc
was reached in 1906, when it became absolutely necessary
 to connect the Limpopo region of the Transvaal with the
 Rhodesian triangulation.        The Chartered Company were
 breaking up their trained survey party after their own
work was done. Gill urged them, by cable, to complete
this link in the chain, but his efforts at a distance of six
 thousand miles from headquarters were unavailing.          So he
selected the man who could best negotiate, and cabled
 to Sir George Darwin, asking him to collect funds.
 Darwin was in America, and it was not until May 7 that
                          "
 he replied by cable,       Money possibly forthcoming — hold
 party together."      Gill cabled that a decision was necessary
                                                   " I have
 by May 24. On May 21 Darwin cabled,                          pro
 cured £1600 for completion survey.         Can you guarantee
 it will be finished for this sum ? Impossible obtain more."
    Meanwhile, all transport had been returned from the
 surveying camps, and Gill had to start negotiations with
 the Transvaal       Government.      On May 31 he cabled
                                       "
 through the Chartered Company,          Tell Darwin Transvaal
 has granted loan of transport.          Morris and I believe
 can now finish connexion for £1600."            On June 8 the
 answer came,
                    " Inform Sir David Gill from Darwin,
 £1600    has   been   granted only provided he guarantees
                                                  "
 finish connexion."        And Gill cabled,         Gill accepts
 responsibility, acts of God and the King's enemies
 excepted."
    Sir George      Darwin's    subscribers   were   the   Royal
  Geographical    Society, the    Royal Society, Mr. Werner,

1902-6]       GREAT ARC OF MERIDIAN                      239
Sir George Darwin, the British South African Company
and the British Association.       Thus was the situation
saved for the great meridian arc upon which Gill had
worked for so long, by two capable earnest men at the
two ends of a cable six thousand miles long. They might
well be proud of it, and we of them !
   After Gill's retirement he never ceased in his efforts to
connect this grand survey with the Egyptian triangulation
in the Sudan, with the help of the Belgians and Germans,
who own (or owned) the intervening country.      His driving
force is gone, but surely some one will continue his
efforts not only to the Mediterranean, but also to the
north of Europe by connexion with the Russian surveys.
   One of the outstanding events at the close of Sir David's
directorship of the observatory (which ended in 1907)
was the visit of the British Association to South Africa
in 1905. He undertook the major part of the preliminary
organization, going into every minute detail with a
thoroughness that told severely upon his health.
   A party of European astronomers arrived a week
before the meeting and had delightful experiences and
discussions at the observatory.     Kapteyn and Backlund
were of the   number,
                                       "
                        and the plan of selected areas
                                                         " of
the former was elaborated. They would begin about
half-past eleven, lunch there, and tea would arrive in a
cloud of smoke before they seemed to have begun.
   During the B.A. meeting Gill tried to do too much
himself, and left too little to others. For example, he
tried to arrange the location of all the parties in the
four trains, and he was absolutely dead beat (as, perhaps,
no one had ever seen him before) when he came back to
the observatory that evening, just in time for a dinner
party.   He was so tired that he could not remember
people's names.       Finally, the death of Sir William
Wharton gave him a terrible shock.
   All these events contributed to the breakdown in

240             LAST DAYS AT THE CAPE                 [Chap. XX
health     in the next year, which made his retirement
imperative. — Fortunately the bad effects were not per
manent. In England his vigour returned, and he was
able to throw the whole of his natural energy into the
welfare, present and future, of the glorious science of
 astronomy.
                      To Dr. A. Roberts
                  Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                           1905, September  11.
    My dear Roberts,        . . . Yr  kind letter of the 7th
 Sept. is just to hand. Retirement in my case is urged
 by a good many circumstances.
    It is true I am fairly well in health — but I have not the
 "     " I
   go       used to have. To drive a large show of this kind
 one ought to be fuller of the capacity for work of every
 kind.     I do not now feel capable of observing to any
 extent —to show the example of activity that a Chief
 should.
    But it is chiefly on the ground of my wife's health that
 I feel I ought to retire. She suffers terribly nervously
 every summer. She has borne great suffering on my
 account —i. e. to enable me to continue here in a climate
 that is very trying for her— and I do not feel that I can
 ask her to do so longer — indeed, I will not, for she is more
 to me than anything on earth.
    Besides, I have found administrative work growing so
 large — have been run into so many kinds of administrative
 work —such a target for letters of advice, chairmanships
 and so forth — references from Governments, surveys,
 boards of museums, geodetic, topographical, geological
 survey, Phil Society, Dio. College and so forth, that I
 cannot get time for quiet work that my soul longs for.
    No, my friend, the time has come for me to betake.
 myself to the old country — take a spell of rest and then
 go in for some quiet solid work.
    When a man begins to feel work an effort it is time to
 stop. Till a couple of years ago I found all my work a
 pleasure — now I begin to find it effort — and especially
 to new jobs. You have a good many years before you,
 I trust, before that time comes, but come it will. I do
 not think it right for a creaking machine to keep out more
 modern ones.

 1902-6]               RETIREMENT                           241
     We need not, however, discuss these matters —for the
 supreme consideration is my wife's health — and that
 decides me.
     I am thankful that the    B.A. meeting has gone off so
 well. The local committees worked splendidly.         Jo'berg
 went wild with hospitality and entertained not the official
 party only, but every Dick, Tom and Harry who visited
 them and was a member of the B.A. One dear old lady
 for whom, at her request, I had engaged rooms at Heath's
 hotel in Johannesburg, when I asked her if she was
 comfortable, said, " Oh, yes, and the rooms are quite
          ******
 nice both for myself and my maid, but a strange man —
 a man I had never seen before — insists that he is to pay
                                                   "
 all my hotel expenses — is it not embarrassing ? — I could
                       "                        "
 only laugh and say, Most compromising !
    Ever thine,                               David Gill.
                   To Dr. A. Roberts
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                          1906, February  20.
    My dear Roberts, — . . . I am beginning to feel better
but am still very weak and not fit for much work. I got
 enteritis at the beginning of January —had 2 relapses
and have not picked up much strength yet.
    My wife, I am sorry to tell you, is down with gastritis
and low fever so we are a sorry couple, and feel that
neither of us may face another Cape summer. . . .
    We will look out for you on your arrival.         I think
Mr. Simms of Troughton & Simms will be with us. . . .
He is coming to see his new Transit Circle. . . .
    Ever thine,                              David Gill.
    The end of the British Association meeting so far as
concerned the Gills was deplorable in the death under their
roof of Admiral Sir William Wharton, the Hydrographer
to the Admiralty, whose high scientific attainments had of
late years been of such signal service to the observatory.
    Wharton had been one of Gill's closest friends since
1874, and his death under the distressing circumstances
was a terrible blow to his affectionate fellow worker.
    The subject seems too sacred to be dealt with here
      R

 242           LAST DAYS AT THE CAPE                  [Chap.  XX
 by reproducing the letters which tell of all he did for the
 mitigation of the blow to the bereaved family.              The
 writer feels, not only in this case but in many others of
a similar nature, that he has, through a perhaps false
delicacy, failed to exhibit fully the heartfelt solicitude
 with which David Gill spent himself in the endeavour to
 support and help his friends in affliction.
   The writer must also confess to having, in the same
spirit, passed over many acts disclosed in the letters, in
some of which Gill intervened either to have a well-merited
honour conferred for valuable services, or to protect a
worker in the cause of science from neglect or calumny.
There is plenty of correspondence to show how he per
sisted and " refused every refusal," and how much his
name came to be revered for this by families not only in
South Africa and England but even in France and the
United States. He kept these acts to himself in his life
time.     It is better that even now they should remain
unrecorded. But the writer, who has seen the letters,
feels bound to express his admiration, which is shared
by those who benefited from his generous tenacity.
   Even before he retired to England, European leaders
in refined and accurate work were beginning to seek
Sir David Gill's co-operation in advance. An example
of this is the following letter from the official head of
 astronomy in Germany.
                   From Dr. W. Foerster
              Berlin, Westend, Athornallec, May       15, 1906.
   My dear Sir David         Gill, — After    the death of Mr.
Chaney, Member of the International               Committee of
Weights     and Measures,   I  wrote   to  Sir  George Darwin,
asking his advice with regard to the election of a
successor. . . .
   He opens to      us the possibility    of gaining your per
sonal presence      and  collaboration as Member of the
Committee. . . .
   Now, mv dear Sir David, there is no scientific man in

 1902-6]        A PERFECT OBSERVATORY                     243
 the   British Empire who has so high merits in the great
 field of measuring and of finally extending the com
 munity and rational development of high metrology, than
 you. Therefore, no better British Member of our com
 mittee could be elected than Sir David Gill.
    I am fully sure of the unanimity of voices for this
election, and I beg you to send me as soon as possible
your answer to this proposition.
    I  am,   dear friend and colleague,   always yours very
 sincerely,                                  W. Foerster.
    Astronomically, the last years of Gill's life at the Cape
were mainly occupied in what may be spoken of as teaching
his valuable instruments to earn their living.
    1. The Heliometer was diligently set to work to observe
positions of major planets.
    2. The division errors and pivot errors of the Reversible
 Transit Circle were measured, sometimes by ingenious
methods invented by Gill, and the Repsold travelling
wire, with improvements of his own, added.
    3. The Victoria Telescope was mainly trained and used
for getting accurate radial velocities so as to perfect his
method of determining the constant of aberration and
consequentially confirming his value of the Solar Parallax.
    4. The Astrographic Telescope was steadily pursuing its
own role for the astrographic chart and catalogue.
    5. The old Transit Circle, as a differential instrument,
assisted the new, especially in getting out the Lunar
Parallax from observations of the crater Mostyn A, in
conjunction with Greenwich.
    6. The 6-inch equatoreal and other minor instruments
were kept in order, ready for all occasional work.
              "
    7. The      perfect clock," perhaps too complicated in
parts of its construction owing to the suggestions of
friends, was set up and tested.       It seems to have had
only one important defect (obviously curable), the failure
of electrical contacts. Eventually the Admiralty stopped

244             LAST DAYS AT THE CAPE                   [Chap.  XX
all further experiments, which cost much.             This clock,
almost certainly capable of becoming the most perfect
ever constructed,1 now, unfortunately, lies at the Cape
Observatory incomplete and discarded.
    All accounts received from the Cape up to this date
strengthen the opinion that the Cape Observatory is
                                              "
likely for a long time to be regarded as The Gill Observa
tory," fitted with Gill Instruments, operated by the Gill
Spirit. In Nature of January 27, 191 6, we read —
    Although     Sir David Gill retired from the direction of
the     Cape Observatory early in 1907, and died just 7
years later, the volumes from that observatory which
have recently been distributed are essentially his work.
 Even in the contributions of his successor and colla-
 borateur, Gill's inspiration and design are evident.          It is
not too much to say that the same spirit of energy and
thoroughness will endure in the pages of future publica
tions long after his name has disappeared from the title.
 No greater tribute can be paid to the memory of a great
 man. His personal achievement was considerable, but
 beyond that his influence on others will surely live.
     It says much for Mr. Hough that he is determined to
    1
       Mr. E. T. Cottingham, F.R.A.S., the distinguished horologist
and practical clockmaker, bears witness that " the barometric,
thermal and circular errors being cured by the air-tight casing in
 a room of constant temperature, Gill's beautiful escapement gives
 to the pendulum a very constant gravity impulse, not only free
 from clock train error, but superior to all other forms of gravity
 escapement in freedom from the varying frictions in unlocking
 the gravity arm and the oil factor on the locking face, and also
 in the greatly reduced mechanical shock."
    Mr. Cottingham, who is one of the few who are masters of the
 Reifler and other clocks of high precision, has experimented for
 years upon the Gill escapement, has entirely overcome           the
 electrical trouble, and cannot foresee any cause of error. It may
 be pointed out that the impulses and recording can all be applied
 by a subsidiary astronomical clock, which would be regulated
  by comparison with the Gill pendulum in the observatory once
 or twice a day, leaving the Gill pendulum perfectly free to vibrate
  uniformly for ages, except for variations in gravity. It is not
 impossible that the Gill clock may in the future be used to test
 the uniformity of the earth's rotation from century to century.
 The escapement is described in the British Association Reports,
  1880.

1902-6]       GIGANTIC     TRIPLE PROBLEM               245
maintain the traditions for thoroughness as a feature of
the Cape Observatory.        Under his guidance the reputa
tion of the observatory is growing with the years, and
he will be able to carry on the effort with which he
has started so successfully, thus conferring incalculable
benefit upon astronomy of the future.
    The remaining part of this book must be largely con
fined to the personal characteristics of the man David
Gill, and will include some account of his last years, in
England, where his innate humanity found ample scope
in the ever-widening sphere of delightful friendships that
filled the last years of his life.
    It was a severe wrench for Sir David and Lady Gill to
 tear themselves away from the happy home and friend
ships of twenty-seven years in the glorious sunshine of
the Cape.      They both felt it deeply, but the health of
 both made the step imperative.
    Before proceeding to the concluding section of this
 book, and without any attempt at analysis of Gill's
 scientific researches, the writer cannot refrain from in
 dulging in a limited and perhaps fanciful survey, from
a new point of view, of three only from among Gill's
 most patiently elaborated, and successfully completed
 researches at the Cape.
    It   has been  recorded that in the first years of his
 directorship, and prior to 1884, his attention was already
 fixed upon three great undertakings involving the highest
 accuracy attainable.
     (1) Geodetic triangulation    and the measurement     of
 an arc of meridian.
     (2) Observations of minor planets with a powerful
 heliometer, to obtain a final definitive value of the sun's
 distance from the earth (solar parallax).
     (3) Observations of stellar displacements due to the
 observer being carried,. by the earth's revolution round
 the sun, across the earth's orbit every six months, thus
 measuring the stars' distances from us (stellar parallax).

246            LAST DAYS AT THE CAPE               [Chap. XX
    The force that attracted him to these three researches
was the acknowledged difficulty and refinement of the
necessary observations, and his belief in himself.
    Probably it never occurred to him how intimately
these were connected.      If we take a broad outlook upon
what he actually accomplished in these three directions
we cannot fail to be impressed by the completeness of
his undertaking.      For his own measurements alone, and
those under his immediate control, furnished the materials
for measuring the distances of many stars, in metres,
and comparing these distances directly with the actual
metallic bar which is preserved at Paris as the standard
metre.
    That he should have been the first systematically to
attack the stellar distances, with an instrument which
with his own hands and eyes he had proved to be equal
to this difficult enterprise, was a splendid thing.       But
that he himself should have provided all the necessary
steps of the measurement and triangulation , from the
 interior of the Bureau des poids et des mesures in Paris,
 where lies the standard metre, right on by continuous
 triangulation to a Centauri, Sirius, and a number of other
 stars, is a feat of measurement which has never been
 equalled, and is not likely ever to be surpassed.
    It may have been an accidental concatenation of
 circumstances and temperament that led to his doing
 all this ; it is very unlikely that he ever realized that he
 had accomplished the combined feat. That it was done,
 and done with such superlative accuracy, has evoked the
  enthusiasm of all astronomers.
     Without dealing with details about precautions, and
  checks upon the work, let us look broadly at a portion
  of what was accomplished in these three great researches.
     First, he procured a measuring bar, transported it to
  Paris, and measured upon it the exact length of the
  standard metre.
     Second, he took this to South Africa to measure a base

i902-6]              STAR DISTANCES                        247
line on the ground, a few miles long, and from this base,
with a theodolite, he extended his survey by a series of
triangles over an arc of meridian.
   Third, latitude observations, at the two ends of this
arc measured in metres, gave him the means of deter
mining the diameter of the earth in terms of the standard
metre at Paris.
   Fourth, taking a definite portion of this diameter of
the earth as a base line, over which he was carried by
the earth's diurnal rotation, he extended his triangulation
to the minor planet Victoria.1 This gave him the scale
for measuring the solar system. Thus his triangulation
gave him the diameter of the earth's orbit.
   Fifth and finally, he still further extended the triangula
tion which was begun in South Africa, and, using as a base
line the diameter of the earth's orbit, over which he was
carried by the earth's revolution round the sun, he com
pleted his triangulation from the bar of metal in the Paris
Bureau to the distant fixed stars.
   Thus, without any extraneous help, he measured the
distances of the stars with the Paris standard metre.
   Stated thus, the stupendous nature of the triple
problem captures the imagination ! Meanwhile, practical
astronomers, studying in sober earnest the voluminous
records of the triple undertaking, are uplifted in admira
tion, not only at the unrivalled skill of hand and eye, not
 only at the mathematical instinct that guided his steps,
but even more at the dogged persistence and steady
effort, which enabled him to overcome every obstacle.
 Other astronomers have had the skill, other astronomers
have had the instinct, and other astronomers have had
 the persistence    and steady effort. There are few to
whom all have been given to the degree required for the
 completion of this stupendous work.
   1
     The Cape observations,    by themselves, gave an  accurate
value of the solar parallax.


          BOOK    III
THE CHARM OF A REAL ASTRONOMER

<
  ,

                      CHAPTER XXI
         THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MAN (1899-1906)
Letters to Miss Violet Markham — The years of anxiety during
  the war —The Royal visit — Lord Milner — Interesting visitors.
The reader     is now in a position to understand how far
David Gill,   the Aberdeen watchmaker, entrusted in 1879
with great opportunities, had fulfilled the first part of his
self-imposed ideals, the creation at the Cape of Good
Hope of a really first-class observatory.
   Some notion can also already be formed as to his second
ideal, to accumulate, by personal labour and superintend
ence, the most accurate observations possible, and a
solid contribution to the determination of fundamental
astronomical constants.
   In the next chapter, the story of his third ideal, the
creation of a colony of ardent workers, or a family party,
united by almost affectionate ties, filled with              good
fellowship and pride in their calling, will be told.
   Something must now be said of the genial influence
and sound judgment which bound him to all worthy
effort even outside of his observatory.
   On May 24, 1900, the Cape Argus expressed the opinion
of Cape Town on the honour (K.C.B.) conferred upon Sir
David Gill in words which may surprise those who are
not aware of his influence in South Africa.
   Dr. Gill has earned his knighthood, not only by eminent
services  to science, but by equally great services to the
Empire in the recent time of crisis. His singularly
                              251

       252    THE OTHER SIDE OF THE                                jc~,
                                                        KAX                . 33
       ir.deper.Cr:-: Xf^rlcr     —    •-*'   r      -
                                                       i ** *-
      from zt* OvVal         e^C^LT-            -*"™*1         .csriig^ich:
     warwei^:'
     war were 01 m^rezs*-      ^        *
    a^P to om adminisirated tS V*0^0™**** «
                                            ^
                                 vL~~ tc *-^ i~n^„.
                                                   dnxing the S. Afna
                                             ^
                                                            «.
    spondence
    to show the
                  tTthl^^
                    pan U   ¦
                              "pV vS  [
                                        -i J*L'nadent ^
                                                        ^^^                «"*
                                                                          suffi
    the logic of facts
                         ^dl^^r             Statements
                                                        ^    &pPeal to fa<
                                                            *s
   and Krueger
   Engiish
                     ^hem^I ^T
               gegn^JTrriwPTr                    ^     ^^
                                                       ^^ **> **
                                                                  to the Bon
                                                                    »W
   he then     seemed to £
                                <£££*
                                                             ^^
        T^e beginnmg    of the rep,y be got
                                                     runs
       mv DEAB      G,u..-Cn;*ucrB                   Tow*- /wy *. l8»
  v
  You seem to know
                          nearly as m»,-H Vy°Ur kindly note
  about astronomy upon
  opmion                 ^ whiS wmcn-1Z£  however.
                                                  ab°Urt Politics lis I d.
                                                        I seldom       give  m;
      Gill's reply to this part
 man-
                                    of the      W* ^
                                         tDe letter      -
                                                             worthy of       tht
     My dear                                .
                   MERRmAN__Th
 this mormng-but
 my capaaty for
                         forgive me       «    1% fo'your y°u         letter  ol
     I                forming     anortniL^er>m
                                      S£?
                                                                              to
                                                    °n -the Nation,
                                                                          ¦»
         am not a professional
 may fairly claim, as a
                           reasonaKK^lan xt is true but I
inhabitant of this       co^rTgy ^""vant                     andmteS n
                                              f
                m°re ab0ut ^PoStic?S?ty years' t0 >S-
SvmUv                                                ^
thamyh.Y°U muSt, for^ve me                      T        7ou do °f astro-
s?dP;at
siderations, ngrentireIy   ""influenced Kg°
                 I am probably                          ,farther *"<* say,
                                    in a          ^y    local      party con
unpreju^ced view of the
                                 s^tStTonTh*1011
                                                           to
                                            °n tha" yourself.    ta^?™

- - — .'
         noio, Fiiioi & Fry.]                                [To iace fage 25:.
                              SIR DAVID GILL, K.C.B., F.R.S.

252     THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MAN                  [Chap. XXI
independent position in the Imperial as distinguished
from the Colonial Civil Service gave to him a position
of unusual influence, and he used it to the best advantage.
   Gill was, in political matters, not only a clear-thinking
Aberdonian, but also an honourable patriotic Englishman,
who had watched with shrewd judgment the self-seeking
machinations of local politicians. His sound common sense
in the years of the nation's trial during the S. African
war were of immense value to his fellow townsmen and
a help to our administrators.     The later history of South
Africa renders it needless to publish his general corre
spondence in this connexion.       One incident will suffice
 to show the part he played throughout the crisis.
   In 1899 he wrote to Mr. Merriman an appeal to face
 the logic of facts and his own statements as to the Bond
 and Krueger schemes — and to prove himself an honest
 English gentleman by forsaking the course into which
he then seemed to be drifting.
   The beginning of the reply he got runs thus —
                         Treasury, Cape Town, July 8, 1899.
    My dear Gill, — Thank you for your kindly note.
 You seem to know nearly as much about politics as I do
 about astronomy upon which, however,       I seldom give my
 opinion. . . .
    Gill's reply to this part of the letter is worthy of the
 man.
    My dear Merriman, —Thank you for your letter of
 this morning — but forgive me if I differ from you as to
 my capacity for forming an opinion on the situation.
    I am not a professional politician it is true, but I
 may fairly claim, as a reasonably observant and intelligent
 inhabitant of this country for twenty years, to know
 very much more about its politics than you do of astro
 nomy.      You must forgive me if I go farther and say,
 that, being entirely uninfluenced by local party con
 siderations, I am probably in a position to take a more
 unprejudiced view of the situation than yourself.

Photo, riliol & Fry.]                                [To fact page ijj
                      SIR DAVID GILL, K.C.B., F.R.S.


 1899-1906]           LORD MILNER                           253
    Then he proceeds to deal with the inexorable logic of
the argument ; and concludes with an appeal to the
highest instincts of his correspondent.
    This aspect of Sir David Gill's activities at the Cape
must not be left unnoticed.      His calm and level-headed
judgment was not confined to the observatory, but was
at the disposal of all who had the welfare of his country
at heart. It was sought and gained by all, even by the
highest in that land. Few records of this part of his
life, especially in the strenuous years for the colonies
 between 1899 and 1904, are of a character that now
 demand publication.       But the esteem in which he —
along with his loving wife — was held, is sufficiently shown
 by two letters from Lord Milner, one written at the
 moment of leaving South Africa for the last time, the
other written in the last year of Sir David's life.
                    From Lord Milner
              High Commissioner's Office, Johannesburg,
                                              March  28, 1905.
    My dear     Gill, — Many   thanks for your very kind
letter, which, alas, I have no time to answer properly.
    I hope, now that I am returning to private life, you will
drop my prefix, as I have dropped yours, and let us fore
gather in the future, as I hope we often may do, as old
comrades in arms.
    Thank you for all your unfailing friendship and your
stout support.    I am glad you think I have been of some
assistance to you in your special pursuits.         I am very
proud if I may think that. Let me add that it has been
the greatest refreshment to me to be allowed to take an
interest in, and to help, however little, your work. Though
 I have long ceased to " wander in the groves of Academe,"
and my life has been wholly practical, I still owe allegiance
to the world of the Higher Interests, and you are one of
the few people who in this country have kept me in any
sort of touch with them.
    My only painful thought, where you are concerned, is
regret at the continued ill health of your wife. When
I remember how bright and charming she has often been
in our company, and what her natural gifts are, it is

254     THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MAN                   [Chap.  XXI
melancholy to think of them marred by this persistent
illness. I hope her return home may bring better days.
    With my kindest and most affectionate remembrances
to you both. — I am, ever yours very sincerely, Milner.
                     From Lord Milner
                    47 Duke Street, S.W., November   13, 1913.
    My dear    Gill, — I have to thank you for a most hand
some        —
        gift the History of the Cape Observatory, which
you kindly sent to me at Sturry, and for your kind letter
of Nov. 3"1. The book is full of interest for me and will
always remain a cherished possession.
    As for the letter, I can assure you that it is the greatest
pleasure to me to find myself thus kindly remembered
by an old friend and fellow-worker in the great S. African
crisis of the past.     I, like you, am thoroughly disgusted
with latter day politics, and my thoughts turn more and
more in other directions.        I only wish that our paths
crossed more often, but in this vast world of London —
even when I am in it (and I spend as much time as I can
in the country) — I but rarely come across old friends.
    I am glad to hear that your health continues so good.
70 is no great age for a man of your natural vigour and
elasticity, and I trust you may have many years of happy
and useful activity before you.
    I wish you had been able to give a better report of
Lady Gill. It is most sad to know that the old cloud
has once more descended upon her spirit. I have such
happy recollections of her in her good moments, and always
found her a true friend.          Pray give her my kindest
remembrances.
    Once more thanking you for your friendly thought of
me, Believe me, always yours very sincerely, Milner.
    It has been recognized by all who knew Sir David Gill
that the social and human side of his character was as
attractive   as the intellectual.    This appears even in his
correspondence with the great astronomers of the world,
who were also his affectionate friends. It is hardly
possible, however, in a work of this kind, to exhibit this
side of his character by reproducing many of these letters,

 1899-1906]          SOUTH AFRICAN WAR                         255
 because they teem       with technical matters of little interest
 to the general reader.         It is, therefore, fortunate that a
 continuous correspondence during his later days at the
 Cape is preserved, with Miss Violet Markham (now Mrs.
 Carruthers).      Her acquaintance with Sir David and Lady
 Gill began in 1899, extended through the terrible times
 of the South African war, and grew into an intimate
 friendship.     The letters, therefore, are among the few
 written upon certain subjects by Gill in which all his
 reserve is put aside, and his inmost thoughts are laid
 bare.
    It  is very remarkable that this friend should be able
            "
 to say,       During an intimate friendship of many years
 we discussed,      I  suppose,    most subjects on heaven and
earth, always excepting the stars."
    It must be remarked that, although the following
letters from Gill to Miss Violet Markham are full of
sound judgments upon the policy of the war, and
other matters affecting the well-being of South Africa,
these opinions have been entirely omitted from the letters
as quoted here, because, while they had their influence
at the time, there is no use in raking up old dissensions.
All of the following letters in this chapter are written
from the Cape Observatory except when otherwise
stated.
    1900.     Jan.  13.   I'm afraid if    I do go to Natal they
won't hand over the command of H.M. forces to me ! . . .
The proper way to relieve Natal is to compel Joubert to
fall back for the defence of Pretoria. . . . But you are
not an amateur general. . . . We have the cavalry
camp just under the observatory windows, and you
might fancy yrself in Piccadilly from the people you meet
in the observatory avenue.
    1900.   Jan.   19.   [After writing about the war.] Here
the    irrepressible    amateur    General is coming out — that
warns me again to stop. . . . Mrs. Hanbury is looking
overworked.        The Ladies Edward and Chas. are both
well. I lunched with them last Saturday and took Sir

256     THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MAN                      [Chap. XXI
Wm. McCormack to tea with them on Sunday when I
met pretty Lady Henry Bentinck.                Such heaps and
heaps of interesting people about.
    1900. March 6. My dear         Friend — The time for three
cheers — and 10,000 hurrahs         has come at last. Lady-
smith relieved, Cronje and 4000 of his men captured
and Kimberley open. — It has been a terrible time of
excitement.
    I wish I had seen you or you had been here when the
news of Ladysmith came.           It was only 10 a.m. I told
my young       men   to try to  work   till noon, and then go —
but they couldn't, and I couldn't — and at 10.30 I said,
Go and hoist every bit of bunting — and get out all the guns
you have, and fire a royal salute and come in to me.
And this done they all came into my room, and some 25
of us drank the Queen's health and Roberts' and Kit
chener's and Buller's and French's — in my best cham
pagne — and sang God Save the Queen — I tried to make a
speech and could not 1— and we all went home or into
town, to shake every one we met by the hand.
    1901. Apr. 22. The Hely Hutchinsons are making
themselves most agreeable.         We dined there 2 or 3 weeks
ago,   — their first dinner party — a very pleasant evening —
Lady Tullibardine, her sister Miss Ramsay (half-sister of
the great classic) were there — both delightful.      The former
plays the piano charmingly, the latter delighted us with
Jacobite songs. — They afterwards came and played
and sang to us one day — yesterday I lunched at Muizem-
berg with them — and heard some really good songs that
Lady T. had written. . . . The plague continues, at a
slow even average. . . . We found two dead rats in the
grounds — one we sent to Dr. Simpson proved to be plague
stricken.     This fact gave me a chance to carry out some
much-needed improvements and reporting to the Ad
miralty afterwards. . . . My best news is that the little
wife is very well. We had our first dinner party of any
size for a long time on the 13th June (in lieu of the 12th,
                                                              "
   1
      [Here is the account of his speech by an eye-witness :    He
rose to speak.    Not a word could he succeed in uttering. After
we had waited through two minutes of expectant silence, he sat
down at the table with his face between his hands, and sobbed.
It was the most eloquent speech he ever made."]

  189^-1906]      DUKE OF CORNWALL                      257
 my birthday) —and on the evening of the 6th July Bella
 is to be at home to some 300 people — to celebrate the
 32d Anniversary of our wedding day.      Our new Admiral
 — Moore — we like much. . . . All the Cape is busy getting
 up steam for the approaching visit of the Royal Duke and
 Duchess [King George and Queen Mary].            We don't
 yet know whether they will pay the observatory a visit.
 When the Duke and his late brother visited the Cape in
 1881 as midshipmen in the Bacchante, Lord Charles Scott,
 their Captain, brought them out to dinner one evening
 at the Observatory.    They made great fun of making the
 Dome go round, and specially enjoyed a forbidden cigar
 when the Tutor was star-gazing. . . .
    How delightful was the worthy reception given to our
 dear Lord Milner — I have written him to say that what
 he wants now is a good wife !
    1901. Sept. 20. ...  I wrote an account of my holiday
 and . . . had it typed.
 "
                              I send you a copy of this
    Epistle general of St. David."      [The following are
 extracts from typed MS.]
    Admiral Moore invited me to accompany him on
board the Flag Ship to Natal, where we arrived a couple
of days before the Ophir. . . .
    I landed with the Admiral and 8 officers at 9.30 and
waited the arrival of the Duke and Duchess at the jetty,
where in a pavilion were assembled the Ministers, Chief
Officials, Mayor and Town Councillors.
    At 10 o'clock the tug with the Duke and Duchess and
suite landed. The Admiral presented me, when the Duke
said that I did not need an introduction as he had dined
                                               "
with me 20 years ago at the Observatory — and a very
jolly evening we had." The Duchess was charming. —
I have seldom seen any one who lights up so wonderfully
in speaking.
    There was a slight occasional drizzle of rain, but not
enough to interfere seriously with a procession in open
carriages through gaily decorated Durban — then luncheon
(about 100 guests) and then to Pietermaritzburg          by
train.
    Next day a procession     to the  Town Hall with an
opening ceremony — very impressive.    . . . The Duke read
his speech most effectively, every word heard throughout
the large hall.   Due credit to Natal's loyalty and service
      s

*5§   THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MAN                  [Chap. xxi
— a touching allusion to Ladysmith and   the Old Hundredth
psalm brought a lump to the throat.
   The streets were lined with 10,000 children and many
hundreds of boy-Cadets and all Natal besides — a rousing
welcome.    In the afternoon a very fine show in the park,
with investiture of a dozen V.C.'s and a lot of D.S.O.'s.
   The scene was a fine one — long side rows of bronzed
war-worn soldiers, with boy cadets in front of them, and
facing the Duke and Duchess, 100 yards off, a row of
500 Zulus in their fullest war paint and equipment.
After the investiture the Zulus advanced in a wild sort
of dance forming a half moon finally— the Royal Party
in the centre. It was a most weird scene —the grunts
and shouts and sharp whistles of the Zulus — their waving
                                            "           "
arms and knobkerries, and the deep            ugh — ugh —
all together, were very impressive. Most impressive of
all was the sudden stoppage from wild excitement. Then
the Duke inspected them and, as he slowly walked past,
the men of each tribe held up their hands with a deep
" Incoos."
   After dinner a sort of Drawing Room at Gov* House.    . . .
   One  could write an amusing article on the Colonial
hand-shake of the Royalty. . . . One poor man just
touched the Duke's hand, lost his head and tried to vanish,
but as the Duchess extended her hand some one pushed
the victim towards her, he looked her in the face, shook
his head in the most comical frightened way, faced about
and bolted. Both Duke and Duchess looked at each
other and fairly bent with laughter.
   Next morning by 10.30 we were off to Durban. . . .
A few hours from Natal we encountered heavy wind and
sea, which rendered it impossible to arrive on Saturday
evening — so we slowed down to a pace that would land
us to Simons Bay on Sunday morning at daylight.
   After breakfast on Sunday the Admiral and I called
on board the Ophir.      This is a small world. The Duke
of Roxburgh brought me a message from my brother
Jem in Australia, with whom he had been hunting with
the Melbourne Hounds, and Lord Crichton had been
riding a horse of Jem's.
   The Governor came down to call — after we left, and
the following good story came of it.       The Duke asked
the Governor to lunch.      After luncheon Sir Walter was
walking about the deck. He is one of those men who

1899-1906]   THE DUKE AND DUCHESS                          259
never forget names or faces.        He saw the Commander,
whom he had met some years before.
             " Ah,
   Governor.         Wemyss, how are you ? glad to see
you."
                 " Yes,
   Commander.             I  think   I  have  seen your face
                                                             "
before, but can't remember where. What        is your name ?
             "
   Governor.   My name is Hutchinson."
   Commander. (Not a bit the wiser.)
                                                " Ah,
                                                       yes, of
course, Hutchinson, old boy.         What are you doing out
here?"
   Governor. Roars of laughter.
                 " What are                        "
   Commander.                  you laughing at ?
             "
   Governor.   I'm the Governor." {Tableau.)
   On   Monday,    the Duke and Duchess entered Cape
Town, but you have      seen all this in the papers. . . .
   We took rooms in the Mount Nelson Hotel during the
Royal Visit to save my wife the fatigue of going to and
from the Observatory.       We met most of the members
of the Duke's Staff in this way. . . .
   Prince Alexander of Teck and the Duke of Roxburgh
I knew before.
   Lady Mary Lygon I was much charmed with, she made
delightful music to us one evening.
         ******
   The Duke of Cornwall does not seem very strong.
   The Duchess was very bright and easy in conversation —
and her charming manners and sweet smiles have rendered
her immensely popular.
   The Royalties departed with all the best of our good
wishes and amidst the greatest       enthusiasm.
   1902. May 12.     Only just a line. . . .
   Sir Frederick Richards and I spent the week end, a
fortnight ago, at Admiralty House. Lord Milner came
         ******
on Sunday afternoon and stayed the night.             We went
up in the train together. . . . Colonel Lambton also
came here to lunch the following Saturday and met
Georgie Frere.
   I am looking anxiously for next mail and news of my
wife. Playf air's report by last mail was decidedly
favourable, for the first time. I cabled a fortnight ago

260     THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MAN                      [Chap. XXI
to call in Dr. Phillips.          The Kelvins had very strongly
recommended him. . .           .  When you see Bella write and
tell me all about her.1
    1902. June 25.           I am starting on Saturday for
Johannesburg to spend the first fortnight of July with
Lord Milner. . . .
   I saw my dear old friend Ld Methuen and his wife a
good deal when here on their way home.               He was very
cheery and interesting.            I asked him to put certain
matters in writing he told me. His written statement
is not so strong as what he told me — but I send it as he
writes me.
    Kitchener, French and Ian Hamilton passed through
on Monday.         The Mayor caught them for lunch by the
way, and I was one of the guests to meet them, and sat
by French who was very interesting.
   1902.   July    22.    I have just returned from a visit to
Lord Milner        in Johannesburg.        [Here follow notes of
survey-plans completed           with Lord  Milner.]
   All these things, besides a farewell Caledonian Society
Banquet to the Marquess of Tullibardine, a Ball (at which
your aged friend [i.e. David Gill] danced vigorously),
a visit to the Robinson Mine, 2 visits to Pretoria, dinner
parties at Sunnyside (Lord Milner 's), and generally
luncheons with pleasant people, my time was pretty fully
occupied.
    It was a great pleasure to meet Lady Tullibardine again,
and I was very sorry not to be able to accompany her as
far as the Cape on her way home.                She hurried off in
haste a week before me in the hopes of getting back
before Tullibardine 's Mother's death.           She was too late
after all, for the Duchess of Atholl died just as I left
Johannesburg.
   Tullibardine has done well with his Scottish Horse in
the field and has found good posts in the Transvaal and
Orange River Colony for over 600 of his men.                  [The
remainder of letter deals with politics.]
    1902. Nov. 30. Before Bella sailed from England
I  was suddenly seized with horrid pain — apparently the
   1
      [Lady Gill, in   1902, was ordered home for her health for a
few months.      It  was impossible for her husband to accompany
her.J

1899-1906]                PRETORIA                        261
result of a chill — biliary colic — . . . These attacks came
on at night, lasted 4 to 6 hours and left one absolutely
useless next day — and of little use for a day or two more.
Before one was fit for real work again another attack of
the same kind followed — till I had 5 or 6 of them. Dr.
Beck ordered me off to Caledon where I had only one
attack and I returned in 10 days to meet Bella. The
evening of the day she arrived I had another attack
which kept the poor little woman up till 3 in the morning.
So we were both ordered off to Caledon together —
remained there a fortnight— and then came back. I have
only had one more attack since I came back and seem
now to be over the affair.
          ******
   1903.  July  16. Lord Milner wanted me to go up to the
Transvaal to advise about a despatch from home.          The
War Office has wakened up to the necessity for maps
of British Africa S. of the Zambesi.
   So soon therefore as the S.A. Assn. for the Adv* of
Science was over — on May 4— Bella and I set off for
Pretoria.
   We spent six days there, stayed with Mr. Davidson
the Colonial Sec* — a most charming and hospitable man-
garden party'd and dined with Sir A. Lawley (then a grass
widower) with the Rose Inneses, &c, &c, and met many
old Cape friends —the Solomons, &c. . . . Lord Milner
came to Pretoria.     ...   He apologized for not asking us
to stay with him in Johannesburg as he had Mr. and
Mrs. Wilson (acting Lieut. Governor at Bloemfontein)
staying with him and his house full.         We stayed with
Herbert Baker (the Architect) a very old friend. . . .
Had glorious weather and snowballs at breakfast one
morning ! ! Bella was bright and well.
   The Wilsons left Johannesburg the day before us and
we joined them at Bloemfontein after a week in Jo'berg.
We spent 5 happy days with them. . . . Wilson gave us
the Governor's railway coach to take us to Cape Town,
and we both returned well and spry from our trip.
   Ten days later I started off by sea for Natal — spent
a day in Durban and 5 days in Pietermaritzburg.            Sir
Henry McCallum, the Governor, was just recovering from
enteric fever and the Chief Justice, who was acting
Governor was my host. . . . Pietermaritzburg was in

262    THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MAN                    [Chap. XXI
the height of festivity.    Cattle show, County ball, Military
sports, tournaments, etc. So I had a good deal of fun
with my diplomacy.
   Lady McCallum is a very pretty and charming woman —
with a keen sense of humour and very pleasing. We had
a dance together at the ball.       ...  I stopped a day and
night with Lord Milner on my way home — and he seemed
pleased with the results of my mission so far as they went.
[Here follow remarks on political problems.]
   I have been hors de combat for a few days with another
attack of bilious colic. . . . Bella has been wonderfully
well since her trip to Johannesburg.
   The following two letters were written during the visit
to Europe in 1904.
   Hotel Bristol.   Carlsbad.     1904. July 7. This is the
anniversary   of  our  wedding day — 34 years ago — and we
are just off for our honeymoon — to drive off to a distant
point in the woods, lunch there and come pack partly
by water — with 2 hours walk home. The day is glorious.
. . . We started    away from London last Friday week,
and visited Groningen, Hamburg and Berlin. From
Hamburg I visited a colleague at Kiel, and from Berlin
colleagues at Potsdam and Jena.          Bella rested at Ham
burg and Berlin whilst I was on these little vagaries.
She was much interested . . . and was specially delighted
with the Kapteyns at Groningen and the Repsolds at
Hamburg. . . . We arrived here on Saturday last. The
Doctor gives a capital account of me and thinks he will
stop all tendency to my complaint in future.
   Villa Victoria.    Carlsbad.    1904.  Julyiy.    Our neces
sarily fixed plans are — Leave this for Caux or Chamounix
on the 23rd Inst.       Stopping one night at Munich and
Zurich.    We should reach London on the 14th August —
go to Cambridge for the Brit. Assoc11 meeting Aug. 17-24 —
Leave for Aberdeen the 24th — where a friend is keeping
a bit of his moor for me. . . . We must have about a
fortnight in London before we sail —say Sept. to Oct. 5,
and then we go for a couple of days to the Hunt Grubbes
at the Isle of Wight, and go on board from there Oct. 8.

1899-1906]               LORD MILNER                        263
    1905.   March   12.    There has been an enormous amount
of work connected with the B.A. visit in Aug* — 7 different
centres to be visited and all sorts of difficulties to be over
come, jealousies to be appeased and so forth — endless
correspondence with local committees, governments,
railways, Mayors, etc.        So that I required a few days
holiday and went off just a week ago to Beaufort West
to shoot buck with Mr. Alhusen.            We had three days
capital sport and I returned on Friday evening — as fit
as a fiddle. . . .
    I had a letter last mail from Lord Grey in which he
writes me in enthusiastic terms about the Han bury
                          "
Williams — He says,         Hanbury Williams 1 your Nominee
first rate, wife ditto, no trouble too great and lots of tact."
He wants us to pay them a visit in Canada. If only the
little wife gets well ; it would be a very jolly trip after
we leave this.
    When do you go to Canada ? I wd like to send you a
letter to Lady Grey and write to Lord Grey about you
at the proper time.
    1905. Good   Friday.     Yes — I think we are all pleased
about Lord      Selborne's appointment. . . . Lord Milner
had to have a rest. . . .
    I had such a charming letter of Good-bye, written 3
days before he left. — How he found time to do it I don't
know — but there it was full of loving friendship, and
                                                    "
looking forward to the time when we should            fight our
                      "
battles over again in the old country.         And so on with
all sorts of kind things about my wife.
    The Kiplings went home the mail before last. . . .
Rudyard was very well. . . . He says he has written an
astronomical story which he dreads my getting hold of.
It is published in some American Magazine — if you get
hold of it — try — and send it to me.
    Dr. Jem is doing wonders — he has got his Compulsory
Education Bill through the House.
    I don't like his plan of submitting his Estimates to a
select committee of both sides of the house, but he says
he likes his plan — it saves him the unpopularity of cutting
down, because he can blame the Committee —and re
trenchment was necessary.          On the other hand he says
                    [Sir John Hanbury Williams.]
                 1

  264    THE OTHER SIDE OF THE MAN                    [Chap. XXI
  that he will neglect the Committee's recommendations
  when he sees it necessary, and will ask the house to
 support him.
     1905. May 13. . . . but first I want to tell you a bit
 of good news.
     The little wife is decidedly better, and has been going
 on progressively in this direction for nearly a fortnight,
  with only one little set back for a day or two.
     On Saturday of last week we both went to Muizemberg
  for a little change, spent a quiet evening at the Hotel
 after a quiet walk by the sea. I went on to lunch at
  Admiralty House on Sunday and Bella came on to pay
 her first call and have tea — returned to Muizemberg
 and on Monday morning accompanied me back to the
 Observatory.      [And so on about his wife's activity.]
 God grant good time is coming to her, for she has suffered
              a
 terribly.    [The rest of the letter is devoted to the Educa
 tion question in S. Africa.] . . .
     1906.  July 2. [The letter begins with Cape politics.]
 But    I am getting rid of political bile — just by way of
 relief — for I am sad and sore.
     My dear wife is very ill. She had been getting worse
 and worse for three weeks — and tho' I hope and believe
 the worst is now past, I know it will take a long time before
 the nervous system can recover tone.        ...   I am awfully
 busy trying to complete the work I have in hand before
 we go.
    I suppose you know that      I have to be President of the
 British Assoc" next year. I have also to serve as the
 representative of England on the Committee of the
international Bureau of weights and measures.             I have
 promised    some articles for the new  edition of the  Encyclo
pedia Britannica, etc. etc. —and I am not likely to lead
an idle life at home.
    I am so glad you went to the Milner banquet — I wish
I could have been there. His "speech read admirably—
tho' I remember his saying,            public speaking is not
                                          "
among my many accomplishments — and his delivery
is far from perfect.
    I am so glad to hear Lord Milner has been to see you.
What a good time you must have had. Plato and Greek
philosophy I know little about — but from the little I do

1899-1906]           PHILOSOPHERS                      265
know I like to tell the present day philosophers that they
              " forrarder " since the
have got no                           days of Plato —and
it makes them so angry that I am sure it must be true. . . .
   Do read my friend Oliver's book on Alexander Hamilton
— one of the greatest of Americans. He calls it an Essay
on American Union— but you wd, and I did, enjoy every
word of it.

                    CHAPTER XXII
                      STAFF ANECDOTES
Truly   Clerk Maxwell was right (p. 235), and David Gill
was happy in his work.       But his happiness reached its
climax from his personal relations with mankind, the
inevitable reward of his selfless love for his fellows. And
here he attained the third and crowning ideal of the perfect
observatory;     the creation of a spirit of devotion and
united zeal in work, combined with affection in lighter
moments, between the staff and their Chief, supported by
his amiable wife.
   Some attempt will now be made to give a picture of
the observatory from the point of view of the Staff. All
great institutions governed by an outstanding personality
give birth to tales about the Chief. Whewell and Airy
each had their foibles and peculiarities told in tales, some
true, others invented.
   Some of those told about Gill may be mythical, but
most are true and all are typical.   A considerable number
of anecdotes have been received from old workers at the
observatory.     None can compare, in number or appro
priateness,   with those furnished by Mr. John Power,
who seems to have reached a closer intimacy with the
real personality of his Chief than any one else in the
observatory.
   One  of these men writes —
   He not only made the Cape Observatory renowned
throughout the scientific world, but he made of its staff
and of their families quite a little world of its own, a
happy family.
                             266

                    THE STUDY TABLE                       267
   Gill's day work was done in the large room which he
used as a study.       It is now the drawing-room      of his
successor.     In the comer occupied by him there was a
large table in great disorder, about which we are told —
   His office table was a constant source of worry to his
wife and his secretary, and his method of finding a letter
was to toss everything about until it came to hand.     Then
followed the same process to find the paper he was work
ing with.     One day, at the secretary's suggestion there
came a general tidy up, and the institution of a system
of baskets for different classes of papers.        This only
served as a grievance. He said that he could not find
things so easily ; but perhaps the truth was, he objected
to the ever present evidence, accusing him of delay in
answering letters not immediately concerned with the
work in hand.
   Still, we got the Table perfectly tidy on one occasion.
He needed a change badly but would not listen to advice.
An assistant asked if he knew he was worrying Lady
Gill by not taking the change. —This settled matters in
a moment and he left for Simons Town the next day on
a long promised visit to the Admiral, and went on to
Seapoint from which he returned with a diphtheritic
sore-throat, and was confined to bed by an anxious wife.
In his absence the table had been thoroughly tidied ; and,
after his recovery, his wife never wished to see it tidy
again.
   Concerning this illness which fortunately left none of
the usual bad results, Sir William Morris, R.E., writing
from Chatham about 1895, recalls his own happy life in
South Africa and says, referring to Gill's recovery from
diphtheria —
   I  can vividly imagine your wife's mental disturbance
on   your falling a prey to that fell disease, mildly though
you had it. How she must have missed her delight in
reading to you and in seeing you sitting there puffing
away contentedly and delightedly at your pipe. I see
the dear remembered scene well enough and have often
and sincerely wished I could wake to find myself in your
study, where all breathed peace and rest.

268                 STAFF ANECDOTES               [Chap. XXII
   When Dr. Auwers first saw Gill's writing-table, his
exclamation was,
                     " Ach ! what a table ! " But after a
                           " Nevertheless, what
short pause he added,                              good work
                         "
has been done at it !
   For the first sixteen years of his residence, except at
certain times, Gill carried on his correspondence himself.
When it became necessary to have a secretary in his
room his habits and moods were noted without his being
conscious of it. It is told that —
   However deeply he might be engaged upon a problem
— he would then be seated at his desk with his feet
shuffling — if any one came up to him with even a paltry
question, he would look up smiling and attend straight
off.
   Many people thought that things not remarked on
escaped his notice, but really he prided himself on having
"a
     genius for not seeing things which were better not
seen."
   Another assistant speaks similarly of his behaviour
when at his desk, saying —
   Gill wrote very rapidly (more so than any member of
his staff) ; and during the time that he was his own secre
tary many of his own press copies of letters are too
smudged to be readable. When an assistant came to
consult him while letter writing he usually stopped
instantly. But occasionally he spoke while still think
ing of what he was writing. On one of these occasions
a computer asked to leave at once on receiving a wire
saying his fiancée was ill. Without looking up, he replied,
" Yes ! Yes ! but tell her not to let it occur
                                                     again, as
it interferes with work." The computer endeavoured
to sting with sarcasm by suggesting that on the next
occasion the lady should wire to Gill. The answer came
             " Yes,
promptly,            yes, and tell her to state fully what is
the matter."     He had spoken while thinking nothing of
the affair, and was highly amused later on when told
what he had said.
   On another occasion when engrossed in reading an
assistant began his mission by saying,
                                              " In his intro
duction X         says      ." He was at once interrupted

                 INCAPABLE OF MALICE                      269
 by the most emphatic assurance that X                was a
 " damn liar."
                   Knowing the chief, he answered, "That
may be ; but here he is truthful," and placed the Intro
duction on the paper Gill was reading. This banished
the article and brought him from the clouds; the ques
                                                        "
tion at issue was settled and the final words were,       No.
 X       is not a damn liar."
    Similarly, a secretary has a story of him, and says —
    Although he had a remarkable command of temper,
he was explosive.      I remember he was reading a memoir
by an astronomical opponent one day and             I  heard
                    " Liar," " Damned liar," " Shameful,"
him muttering,
"                   shot," "                  "
   Ought to be
" Excellent."                 Quite right,"     Very good,"
                   Then   he threw the paper over to me
saying, "Excellent paper by           ." He was incapable
of malice or revenge, absolutely.
   Such of these stories (and of those which follow) as
are true indicate minor traits in the man's character;
and, whether true or not, they are all illuminating as
showing the kind of stories that his staff thought might
be true of him.
   One of those who studied at the observatory writes :
" In my case I measured others
                                     by what they thought
of him ; that is perhaps as great a tribute to him as I
could offer."
   In  1891  after much delay in starting the astrographic
telescope, Gill brought from home the altered object-
glass.   A few days later a pure accident stripped the
teeth of a wheel. He dreaded the further delay in start
ing work as the repairs must be done in England. A
newly arrived Secretary was astounded by a monologue
of Gill, the Photographer and Secretary being audience.
The fresh hand slipped out to learn from an older assistant
what had happened. On returning, the monologue was
going strong, so, motioning to the Photographer to leave
the room, he ventured to suggest that perhaps the work
could be done at the railway workshops at Salt River
 (a mile away).     In the next few minutes the Secretary
learned something about the ignorance of any man who

270               STAFF ANECDOTES                 [Chap.  XXII
had been here only two days, and about the ways of
railway workmen with astronomical instruments.             The
monologue     continued    until  the  Secretary began to
wonder whether the Chief now considered him as cause
of the accident, vice the equally guiltless Photographer
who had retired. After a time the Secretary decided
to try a diversion, proposing that it might be well to
begin packing up the thing for transit to England.        This
proved a text for      an  eloquent lecture on   indifference,
the evils of calmness and various other supposed sins of
people who could make such a suggestion. Finally the
Secretary, with an aggrieved air, hinted that a listener
would have thought at first that the Photographer, and
later that the Secretary, had purposely done the damage.
Gill glared for a moment, the frown gave way to a smile
and, with a hand on the Secretary's shoulder, he exclaimed,
"                                         "
   Good Lord, was I as bad as that ?         In two minutes
it was decided to try if Salt River would undertake it.
The Photographer entering, started on explanations, but
                      " I know.
was silenced with,                 Just forget all about it."
   Later the newcomer had to tell the story to the
assembled staff who thoroughly enjoyed it, and con
gratulated him upon his good fortune in bagging such a
typical incident so soon after arrival.
   Those who knew Gill sometimes enjoyed the storms
for the prospect of the fine weather which always followed.
   The shoulder grip was a favourite trick and one hard
to resist. Some of his staff were always careful to keep
at a distance when it was necessary to avoid giving in
to him. Once during a heated discussion it was necessary
to insist on his withdrawal of a statement made.           He
knew that this could be avoided if he could get his
persuasive hand on the other man's shoulder — so did the
other man. The result was a kind of waltz three times
round the large study, avoidance of the grip, and with
drawal as complete as could be desired.
   Rates of pay for certain work often led to amusing
episodes ; that for taking certain photographs was fixed
at 6d., but the men (two Greenwich men) considered it
should be raised to gd. and after several indabas decided
to refuse to work for less. This evidence of the supposed
sordidness decided him to keep to the original sum, and

                     READY TO HELP                          271
 among other expedients he tried to get the Artificer
 who was a good photographer to do the work.                He,
 knowing nothing of the dispute, started, but, hearing of
 what had happened, found he could not master the
                                        "           "
 details.   An indaba with the two        strikers    followed.
 Very strong views were expressed, the Chief saying he
 would like to give them £500 a year each, and the strikers
 repudiating a desire for anything beyond gd. a plate.
 Later in the day the Chief was on his way to the railway
 station with a striker on each arm.
    In his own private affairs he seems to have been careless.
 One who used to be his secretary says —
    He thought all were straight runners and was therefore
 easy to deceive, and was always surprised when he found
 he was deceived. — I kept his petty cash and some of his
 other accounts. He never queried any — it was a mere
 form — sometimes I thought a private bill was stiff and
 would say so — he might agree, but just wrote out his
 cheque without a further word.
    He had a high sense of duty, yet he did not like to find
 fault.   When he had to do with a slacker he was very
 unhappy.     He disliked cutting the Gordian knot.         Yet
in the long run unless work improved         it would   be cut.
 He was so easy to get on with, so unsuspecting, so kind,
that it needed a real perversity to be out of tune with him.
 If any one did his best and it was bad he was content —
he would fit the work to the man.
    Continuing   with Mr. Power's reminiscences —
    Woe betide the man who neglected to mention illness
or trouble.    It was regarded as most unkind to him and
his wife who were always most keenly interested in all
connected with the place.       When one of the men found
that what seemed a good salary in England was starvation
at the Cape he asked Gill's advice as to buying or building
a house as the rents were then out of all proportion to the
cost of the houses.     The man's intention was to obtain
the balance of the money from England.          Gill went into
the question, and when he had examined the pros and
cons was enthusiastically in favour of building, exclaiming
in the most emphatic way,
                                "
                                  Buy the ground and build
at once."     He brushed aside the idea of the delay in

 272                STAFF ANECDOTES                [Chap.  XXII
                                            "  D — n it, man, I
 getting the money from England with,
 have the money."       The man had not been long in his
 service and regarded the assertion as one of his impetuous
 sayings, but, four days later, was surprised by the abrupt
 statement that from a certain date the required sum
 would be at his disposal while the house was under con
 struction.    The Chief and Lady Gill took the keenest
 interest and twice a week they walked down to watch
 its progress.
    From the Observatory to the Railway Station is about
 eight minutes' walk on an Admiralty road. On this road
 he was seldom alone,      for old and young either waited
 for or overtook him. The youngsters especially enjoyed
 the walk with him, as he entered into their doings like
 one of themselves and always had a cheery word of
 encouragement or some amusing yarns to tell them.
    His idea of the position of Chief and Staff probably
                                            " We are a
 agreed with his wife's expression of it,                  small
 colony of exiles, and I like to feel we are one family."
                                " one         "
    They both acted on the            family principle, and
 the success of the Observatory under his direction was
 due largely to the reciprocation of their feelings.         He
 certainly  had  enthusiasm,   energy  and what   an  Irishman
 calls "away with him," but all these would not account
 for the spirit in which work was done. — His wife shared
 in bringing out what was best in the men, and giving
 them the feeling that the credit of the Observatory was
 a family affair as well as a national one.
    Many years ago the assistants made a croquet ground
 for Mrs. Gill. Later she wanted bazaars for worthy
objects. The whole staff waxed enthusiastic, and men,
women and children did their utmost.         Perhaps the best
incident illustrative of her influence was that in which
a Jew and a Roman Catholic were selling tickets to wipe
out the debt on an English Church. The Jew was charg
ing double the proper price, and when remonstrated
                   "
with remarked,       Lady Gill wants money and I will see
that she gets it."
    Gill was rather unconventional at times. He seldom
carried an umbrella and, when he did, invariably came
home without it.
   After one trip to England he returned with a clerical

                   CALLERS IN DISTRESS                         273
  looking     overcoat,   and   on   being     questioned  blamed
  "
      some clerical  Fellow of the R.A.S." for taking his coat.
       He had all Dominie Sampson's affection for old clothes
  or indifference to appearances.       An old friend who was
  in the house when Lady Gill was absent for a few days
  was considerably worried because he persisted in wearing
  a certain "comfortable" suit; all her efforts to effect
  a change having failed she sought the assistance of one
  of his men.      It was arranged that the first of two men
  who saw him should tackle the business.         The opportunity
  soon came and the Astronomer found one of the Assistants
  scrutinizing him in a way that forced the query if any
                                           "
  thing was wrong. The reply was,             I should think so —
  you ought to change that suit at once, it is far from
  beastly respectable."       (An expression      usually applied
  by Gill to a new suit.) He attempted to defend the old
 one, but was answered with a scathing analysis of it and
 the assurance that his wife would not permit him to wear
 such a thing.      This settled the question and the offending
 suit disappeared and was seen no more.1
      He had a weakness for assisting stray callers in distress,
 especially if they were Scottish, or well educated. One
 man turned up with a piteous tale and among other items
 mentioned that he could speak and write Persian.            After
 handing     the  man   over to Lady   Gill  to  be fed and given
 work he returned to his study in a very miserable state
 and overflowing with sympathy.         He admired the appear
 ance of the man; — a member of his staff did not, and
 was rebuked for his harsh judgment of an educated man
 who, even with the ability to speak several languages
 including Persian, could not secure work. The assistant
 promptly asked what evidence there was for the Persian,
 e. g. did the Chief know enough of the language to verify
the statement. He did not wait for the complete answer,
 but left hurriedly.
     For some days Lady Gill had good evidence that the
fellow was a waster, but it was only when the Civil Engineer
from Simons Town saw the man and gave the story of
his loafing there that the Chief was reluctantly convinced.
     On several occasions he was imposed upon in this way.
He would give a man employment and advance him
    1
       [It must not be supposed that such freedom was allowed to
all of his subordinates.]
        T

274                 STAFF ANECDOTES             [Chap. XXII
money out of his own pocket. Generally the case was
                               " Poor
forgotten with the reflexion,         body ! I would rather
be robbed over and over again, than miss helping one real
case of distress."
   Men in his position in S. Africa have many visits from
newcomers seeking advice or help. No trouble was too
great if he could help any one.
   It has  been    noted that Sir David was particularly
hospitable to his own countrymen, to whom his own
broad Aberdonian accent was usually a great charm.
Mr. E. B. Knobel visited the Gills at the Cape in 1892,
and sends this anecdote —
   One day a Scottish gentleman from Paisley landed at
Cape Town.       Gill invited him to lunch. In the course
of the repast a rather animated conversation ensued
between them. The Paisley gentleman spoke with the
broadest accent of that part of Scotland, and in the heat
of the discussion Gill's Aberdonian became more vigorous.
I do not think "
                   the Paisley man understood him, for at
last he said,    You're not a Scotsman, are you? " which
convulsed Gill and drove me from the table to enjoy the
joke with Lady Gill.
   Tom Peasoup. One of the Kroomen was a most intel
ligent faithful fellow, and often assisted the Chief in
cleaning and re-erecting instruments.       Tom would do
anything to avoid Massa's displeasure.
   Peasoup came on one occasion to Lady Gill begging
her to get him leave to go away to his brother's funeral.
   — Why don't you ask leave of your master ?
   — I done that.
   — And what did your master say ?
   — He say — " I'm getting tired of these dam funerals."
   One of the less permanent members of the staff writes —
   His politics so far as we could grasp were of the old
crusted Tory type, but he often quoted B. A. Gould's
saying that the best party in Argentina was that which
did most for the observatory and for science.
   On one occasion he launched out on a Home Rule
discussion with an ardent Home Ruler of whose opinions

                         AN INSULT                         275
 he was not aware. The discussion was rather brief
  because after a while he admitted that his study of the
  Irish question was practically confined to a chat with
 Lord Kelvin and concluded that
                                        "
                                          politics was a dirty
 trade," and both parties to the discussion would be better
 employed on their astronomical work.
     An enthusiastic Imperialist, the S. African War troubled
 him greatly.     He was very outspoken on several occa
 sions.    A leading politician who praised his outspoken
 ness must have been surprised to hear that he and his
 party ought to be ashamed of their silence.         He really
 suffered intensely during the war and actually wept while
 reading or speaking of the casualties on both sides.
     Asked by the Colonial Government to visit Kimberley
 in connexion with Survey matters he arranged with the
 Surveyor General that his expenses should be paid, and
 to avoid the bother of keeping accounts the expenses
 were to be the difference between the amounts in his
 pocket on starting and returning.         This account was
 duly   rendered, but they tendered a sum larger by about
 £6 arrived at by giving the daily allowance of a Colonial
 Civil Servant. Het regarded this as an insult to his
 Office and sought the Railway Time Table vowing venge
 ance.    We thought he was pacified and content to write
on the subject, but he slipped off by a later train and
came back happy, with a cheque for the smaller sum and
the satisfaction of having explained that the Astronomer
took no remuneration beyond his salary from the
Admiralty.
     In early days his go-ahead    ideas were somewhat dis
turbing to officials at home. Any visitor from England
was charged with messages for his guidance — such as to
deal with each subject in a separate letter, or to ask for
one thing at a time, etc.        It was often necessary for
Admiral Wharton to warn him of the effect of his methods
on the official mind, and the possible bad effects on the
Observatory; the unsparing plainness of the Admiral's
letters was much appreciated, and Gill's usual remark
on reading a somewhat merciless chiding was — "A friend
who will hit like that is worth having." On one occasion
he wrote,
             " There is no
                            proof of friendship more sincere
than one which involves trouble to tell a friend the truth
— especially if it is an unpleasant truth. Therefore, no

 276                STAFF ANECDOTES              [Chap. XXII
 apology is needed for your remarks. If you will always
 tell me as frankly what you think and caution me as
 wisely, I shall be very grateful and shall always as
 frankly confess my sins or defend my opinions." It
 need hardly be added that there was more defence of
 opinions than confession of sins.
    Once, when some one complained of an apparently
 unkind remark, he sadly said, " To think that you have
 been with me for years and don't know yet that I don't
                        "
 mean what I say !
    Very few trains stopped at Observatory in the 'eighties,
and he was anxious that the last train should stop
                                                         "
                                                           on
        "
signal    to   pick up    one of his observers who lived at
 Wynberg.      The railways are run by Government, so he
approached the responsible Minister, who refused the
request. A persuasive letter followed which, after
reciting what the Observatory had done for Cape Colony,
showed how easily the Government could assist the
Observatory. — Refusal of his small request would be
taken as an intimation that he need send no time-signals
in future. — The request was granted.
   Many of the incidents narrated in Mr. Power's notes
disclose a certain joy of encounter with the professional
scribes of the Admiralty, and a delight in taking advantage
of a false move.
   He was reported to Parliament by the Audit Depart
ment for not furnishing a complete list of instruments,
books, etc.     Officials in England who had no idea of
his difficulties could not be expected to understand his
difficulty in complying with such a request. He took
the view that, until given the staff necessary to do this
work it could not be done without sacrificing astronomical
duties. In 1891 he was given a secretary one of whose
duties was to prepare the lists and be answerable for the
property; but the secretary refused to accept respon
sibility until given proper provision for storage.      Now,
for years, Gill had been anxious to convert the central
hall into a properly fitted library instead of having the
books scattered in different rooms on open shelves, but
feared to ask money for such a purpose. He was quick

                   THE MERIDIAN MARKS                       277
to seize this lever for carrying out the project.           The
report to Parliament had not troubled him in the         least,
but suddenly he made it a serious matter. Delays in
granting the request for shelving, etc., were given as
reasons for the impossibility of making the lists.
     He could ill brook the delaying at home of well thought
out projects, and any member of the staff who went to
him directly after the mail had brought such news was
expected to sympathize.         His proposition to fix the
meridian marks for his Transit Circle on the solid rock
many feet below ground level had been criticized and
the suggestion made that, if other observatories could use
points on church steeples or public buildings, the Cape
should do the same.        (The particular observatory cited
is in a neighbourhood bursting with such buildings, while
there are none at the Cape.)        The first entrant was told
 the proposition and asked what should be done to its
 author.      He handed the letter back suggesting that the
 " mark " estimate should be withdrawn, and one for the
 building of a couple of cathedrals substituted, with a note
 that they would not be a success, and the marks would
 have to be erected later as proposed. This cheered him
 up. He resolved to do it — and he did it ! (unofficially,
 of course). The marks were eventually sanctioned and
 have revolutionized the work with the principal instrument
 of the observatory.
      In Maclear's day there were very few houses near the
 observatory, and he was regarded as the natural leader
  in all local movements. Gill succeeded to this position,
  when the place was more densely populated.         One of the
   public meetings over which he was called on to preside
  is described    by Mr. Power.
       Local option was in force, but the sudden growth of
   the village left the voting power in the hands of people
   living miles away, so residents held a public meeting. Gill
   was chairman and naively remarked that he " liked a
                        "
   little liquor himself ; and when a supporter of the request
   for the license thought he had put an unanswerable poser
   by asking what people were to do in case of a sudden
  need of spirits, for illness, Gill answered blandly,
                                                          "
                                                             Just
  send to me, or any of these gentlemen on the platform."

  278                    STAFF ANECDOTES                [Chap. XXII
     A story   comes from one      of the men who passed through
  the Observatory         training and went on to do good
  work in another colony.            He sends it as an example
 of absence of mind on Gill's part.           It may seem to those
 who knew him better to be Gill's answer to a youngster
 who had the temerity to fancy himself as a possible
 observer with the great heliometer.
     I was one evening reading the declination microscopes
 of the Transit Circle when Sir David came in, and I plucked
 up courage to tell him of my ambition to work with the
 Heliometer.       No sooner had
                                 "
                                       I got the words out of my
 mouth than he bellowed,            You want to observe with the
                  "
 Heliometer ?
 " So                  (I thought my last hour had come.)
                    —
        you shall so you shall. Come up to-morrow night
 and I'll teach you how to." My relief was too great for
 words. I certainly went home that night feeling that
 my career as an astronomer had begun.
    The following evening, punctually at 6 p.m. I went
          " old man's "
 to the                    study and reminded him that he was
going to teach me to use the Heliometer.
    "           "
                    said Sir David.
                                           "
                                              Go and set it on
       Right !
a Centauri and I'll come along."
    In about a quarter of an hour Sir David came in to
the Heliometer, sat down on the observing chair, turned
                                             " Well,
a few mysterious handles, and said,                  there you are.
Dreadfully bad definition, perfectly damnable, but just
you observe the distance of the components, and let me
see the result to-morrow."
    With that he stalked out, and there ended my lesson
in observing with the Heliometer ! I am quite sure he
did not realize what he had come for, or that he had set
me to make one of the most difficult observations ever
made with that instrument.
    When Gill retired there was no difficulty about the
appointment of his successor.             When Mr. Hough was
selected as Chief Assistant in 1898, Sir David had in
sisted that a candidate should be selected who might
eventually succeed him.              But who was to succeed
Mr. Hough?
   Gill was most anxious that it should be some one

              "A MONUMENT OF LOVE"                           279
 qualified by past work to make the most of Mr. McClean's
 gift of the Victoria Telescope in the measurement
 of radial velocities.    The fine work already accom
 plished in this direction by Dr. Halm at the Edinburgh
 Observatory eventually secured him the appointment.
    On Dr. Halm's arrival at the Cape he wrote to Sir David
 his impressions of the scene of his future life's work.
                     From Dr. Halm
                Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                            August   12, 1907.
    Dear Sir David, — Now that the first bewildering
impressions have been somewhat cleared and I begin to
feel at home in the new sphere of work and among my
new friends and colleagues, I must not longer hesitate
to send you this first message to tell you of our happy
settlement in this most beautiful place as well as of the
first events of my initiation as Chief Assistant of your
great Observatory.
   Needless to say that I received most friendly welcome
from Mr. Hough and all the colleagues, who did all in
their power to help us in our first domestic difficulties
and to assist me in obtaining a speedy knowledge of the
equipment and the general work of the Observatory.
They are an excellent set of men, faithful to their duties,
frank in their opinions and loyal to the good old tradi
tions of the Cape Observatory.      My estimation of their
character is securely based on the all-round expression
of their admiration for their late Chief, for his work and
his personal kindness, his fatherly interest in them and
theirs. Great and imperishable is the scientific monu
          ******
ment you have left behind, but it is overpassed by the
monument of love in the hearts of those who will for ever
remember your and Lady Gill's kindness and sympathies
with their joys and sorrows.
   Believe me, Yours very sincerely,              J.  Halm.

                    CHAPTER        XXIII
              PERSONAL    TRAITS    AND TASTES
The personal  side of David Gill — Art — Literature — Music —
                         Religion, etc.
Of   the two forces, one of the head, the other of the
heart, which governed all the acts of David Gill, perhaps
too much prominence has been given to the former.
This was inevitable in the circumstances. The Violet
Markham letters, however, and the Staff anecdotes, give
a great insight into the other part of his outlook upon the
world.   It will be not amiss to insert here some notes and
anecdotes received upon the subjects of Literature, Art,
Music, Religion, Humour, Conversation, Sport, and other
social matters.
   Reference has already been made to Gill's love of
pictures, and the many artists whose acquaintance he
had made in Scotland and in London.            He had many
pictures in his house, some of which he rated highly.
   His oldest artist friend was Sir George Reid, who used
to walk out from Aberdeen in the 'seventies to visit the
Gills at Dun Echt, and who was a member of the literary
coterie at Old Deer Manse, to which Gill contributed
his share.   Some of the acquaintances of this President
of the Royal Scottish Academy generally recall him as a
gloomy, morose man. These will be surprised to learn
that he was in the habit of unbosoming himself to his old
friend, David Gill, in a spirit of fun and drollery com
bined with culture, and his letters were often accompanied
 by comic sketches.
                               280

                    SIR GEORGE REID                          281
    Mr. A. P. Trotter, who spent some years at Cape Town,
sends the following amusing tale, which is true.
    Charles Keane once sent Sir David a clever pen-and-
ink sketch on a sheet of note-paper. It was probably
mounted or framed, for it came under the notice of the
Customs authorities, and when he extolled its merits they
mulcted him in a good round sum.
    Many years after Sir George Reid sent him a beautiful
picture of a mass of roses as a present.       [Many a reader
will remember this picture in Lady Gill's drawing-room.]
Sir David was asked, as was the practice at Cape Town,
to pay a visit to the office to declare its value. He said,
" How should I know
                           anything about the value of pic
tures?     I suppose it is hand painted. What do you
think? You must have much more experience than I.
                                                     " Well,
Of course, I will pay whatever is right."                      it
seems to have a very good frame — that is worth a pound."
" Yes,
         now you mention it, it is quite a nice frame, and
if you say a pound, that is all right. And I suppose
                                                 "
something must be added for the picture?             So he was
charged    on  a value, declared by the officer, of 30/-.
    The tale has been told with little change by others.
 It gives additional interest to two letters out of a bundle
 written by Sir George Reid to Gill.
            From Sir George W. Reid, P.R.S.A.
                            22 Royal Terrace, Edinburgh,
                                           November 13, 1891.
    Dear Astronomer, — When         I recognized your hand
 writing on the envelope and the pinky-purply-Cape-of-
 Good-Hope-two-pence-halfpenny-stamp,         I felt glad —but
 when I turned the envelope to tear it open and my eyes
                          " What                      "
 lighted on the words,            about my roses?        I felt a
 slight shock — of pain, or of shame, or of both, it may be,
 as I knew I had no answer— or at least no satisfactory
 answer, to return to your question, " What about my
         "
 roses?       Well — what am I to say about them? They
 have bloomed and faded and fallen petal by petal to the
 earth, and I have been unable to make any record of
 their brightness or beauty — but instead, went on looking
 day after day on the bald shining head of old Dr. G              ,

282    PERSONAL TRAITS AND TASTES                   [Chap. XXIII
and never once thought of the
                                        "
                                          gather your rosebuds
                                                   " exhalation,
while you may, old Time is still a-flying
and now in the gloom and fog of November I look back
sorrowfully on lost chances and wasted opportunities.
Vorbei ! Vorbei ! sagte der arme Mahler, hatte ich doch
Blumen gemahlt, als ich es noch Konnte, Vorbei ! vorbei !
— which, slightly altered from Hans Andersen, may be
given as a fair rendering of what my repentant and
regretful feelings are. But be of Good Hope ! (as you
are).
           Yes, David, yes. The Gloire's flower
           Again shall deck the summer (seat) bower.
           Again my garden shall supply
           Things pleasant both to mouth and eye;
           Roses and Poppies shall abound,
           With Pinks and Pansies all around.
           And when the Painter paints at " they "
           Too short shall seem the summer day.
With which free rendering of Sir Walter I shall cease and
determine- from this Rose business for just now.
   About this Presidency. I really don't know whether
or not I have acted altogether wisely in accepting it.
I wish you were an astrologer or a Taustettor — or a
Copernicus— or a Galileo —or a Tycho Brahe or some
thing of that kind, to consult the stars for me and tell
me whether I was under the influence of some good or
                           "     "
evil one when I said         yes     to the question. But the
days of seers and soothsayers and Prophets and users of
divination are past, and most^ of us can see before us
just as far as the points of our noses and little further,
and I must e'en be content to remain in doubt and
uncertainty.    Time doubtless will solve the mystery —
but then, if it should prove to have been a mistake !
                                   "                          "
   However, the thing is done for better or for worse —
as the saying is— and I must make the best of it.               It
will add to my cares — and to my worries too —
    " For how much   there is lacking what tongue can tell   ?
      And of things that are crooked the number is fell,"
and this is an untoward generation — and if you have
                                                 " won't      "
to persuade long-eared quadrupeds who                      go —
"             "
  wolloping     is of little use — persuasion in the shape of
        —
carrots or by preference thistles — is the only thing —

                             ART                          283
 and it may
              " exhaust time and encroach upon eternity
                                                             "
 before appreciable advance is made.        Still, I am not
altogether without hope. . . .
   How is Mrs. Gill ? Please give her my kindest remem
brances and regards — and my wife's also.         I hope you
                                              " the work of
are prospering in — I was going to write
              "                                     " work of
your hands — but I suppose I should say the
            "
your eyes — and of that funny calculating machine —
the one you used to turn by a handle.      If I had much to
do with arithmetic I think I should get one. I never
could learn the multiplication table — as Pet Marjorie
                                          "             "
used to say of nine times nine —it was      dampnable — I
am afraid I have written you a sad teaser — but I shall
send it nevertheless.    Yours ever truly,     Geo. Reid.
   The promise of the harassed President R. S. A. having
been duly kept, Sir George's next letter, dated April 26,
1894, begins —
   Dear Astronomer, — I      am glad the roses reached you
safely and that you like them, and further that the
Custom House officials have been so moderate in their
valuation of them !
   The home of the Gills always contained good pictures
upon the walls, some by his own friends, others collected
by himself. I remember, in 1902, taking the late Earl
of Carlisle out to the Observatory, and the great interest
with which he gave to Sir David the benefit of his
critical knowledge of the old Spanish masters.          Gill's
old Spanish pictures were sold at Christie's after his
death.
   With regard to literature, the reader must have noticed,
in numerous references by correspondents in these pages,
the keen delight with which he devoured the work of our
best authors.     Allusion has also been made to a few
occasions when he read aloud to his friends, and to the
daily readings by his wife, which were his great recre
ation during forty years of their married life, during
some hour of rest, while he contentedly smoked his pipe
and listened.

284     PERSONAL TRAITS AND TASTES                 [Chap. XXIII
    The outstanding     feature of David Gill's personality
was happiness.      In work or play, in action or inaction,
it beamed from him. He was happy when engaged upon
the work of his favourite science.          He was happy in
joining in the games or sports of others. He was happy
in seeing others happy, and was happy in sacrificing
himself for those he loved. But few things outside of
his pet subject brought him such supreme, contented
 happiness as really good music. This was noted in
 letters even during his Clerkenwell days. It never
 ceased to please.
    Mr. R. T. A. Innes, writing about Gill's characteristics,
          " He liked music, but a wrong note gave him
 says :
 anguish —so that his enjoyment of music was always
 very mixed."
    The observatory, during the whole period of the Gills'
 residence there, was the meeting ground of all intellectual
  and artistic residents, of all distinguished visitors to Cape
  Town, and of the naval officers at Simons Bay.
     All the professional musicians who arrived at the Cape
  were well received at the Observatory, and there were
  many musical evenings.         Among the residents there
  were some, like Mrs. Colahan, an army-doctor's wife, who
  were skilled performers, and who often came to brighten
  the observatory life with music, on the piano whose
  quality was unimpeachable.
     Once, when Mrs. Colahan was playing, two young girls
  seated together in the room were talking.           Sir David
  admonished them in a whisper.             Shortly after, they
  resumed their conversation, whereupon he approached
  them, took them each by an arm and solemnly removed
  them from the room.
     From that time onwards the pianist nicknamed him
        " musical
   her            policeman."
     Mr. Knobel recalls that when he was at the Cape he
   and Mrs. Colahan on two or three occasions played the
   Kreutzer Sonata. He says,
                                     " Gill was so moved, he

                    NORMAN NERUDA                       285
almost shouted his delight, and afterwards he often
referred to the exquisite slow movement in Beethoven's
masterpiece."
   When Madame Norman Neruda and her husband, Sir
Charles Halle, were guests one evening, they were given
a peep at the stars through the big telescope.  Sir David's
explanations evoked her enthusiasm, and she exclaimed,
"
   I must stop here always." Whereupon her husband
asked,
         "
           And what is to become of me ?
                                           " " Oh,
                                                    you can
           —
stop too if you like."
   Remenyi the violinist, Albani, and many other noted
artistes found their way to the observatory.
   Santley was a welcome friend there at all times during
                                                  "
his trip to South Africa. Once he was singing       Duncan
       "
Grey      at a concert in Cape Town, and Sir David had
his seat on the platform.     Each verse excited him more
than the last, and, oblivious of all but the song, at the
close of each verse he pushed back his chair a little to
catch the sound better, until, to the horror of his wife,
who sat in the body of the hall, he was within a few
inches of the stair leading down from the platform.    Had
there been one more verse he must have turned a somer
sault down the steps, and all his friends were relieved
when the song ended without a catastrophe.
    In the presence of really good music he was almost
beside himself with joy. During his frequent visits to
Paris he saw a good deal of the Lyttons. One day they
took him to a concert with their party.        An exquisite
solo was being sung, and Gill was enchanted.            He
seized hold of an aged gentleman of the party, who was
                                          "
next to him, by the arm, and said,          Man ! is it not
          "
grand ?      Some time later Lady Lytton, when spoken to
                       " Yes,
about it, remarked,            the Due [indicating a high
personage] was greatly amused at Sir David's enthusi
asm."      Our astronomer had never given a thought to
his neighbour, whether he was great or small. He felt
he must have sympathy in his admiration of the solo.

  286    PERSONAL TRAITS AND TASTES               [Chap. XXIII
     During the whole of his residence in England, after his
  retirement, Gill never missed an opportunity of attending
  the Albert Hall concerts.
     Mrs. Andrew (late of Cape Town and Muizemberg, now
  in Scotland) writes —
     Not   very long before his last illness, we were
  coming out of the Albert Hall, after a performance of
                                                  "      "
 the Elijah and, in the vestibule, met a            rapt   Sir
  David, who declaimed in his broad Doric,          " Ah, Mrs.
  Andrew, Mendelssohn was all wrong in his wind-up.        He
 should have finished by sending Elijah up to Heaven in
  A FLARE OF TRUMPETS ! !
                               "
     It seems tame when written, but if you could have
 seen that noble form, with its grand head, and rugged
 face, Gill the poet, utterly unconscious of the fashionable
 crowd moving past him, as with uplifted hands he pic
 tured his idea of the Great Prophet's passing, you too
 would have been carried away to another world, and when
 you came down to criticism would have agreed that the
 music was not majestic enough to depict the whirlwind
 and chariot and steeds of fire.
    Alas, we little thought, that night, that our friend was
 so soon to join the great choir above, but I shall never
                                   "
 forget his looks ; surely the       Spirit of God was upon
 him — the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit
 of counsel and true godliness, the Spirit of knowledge
 and ghostly strength."
    I  suppose  that Sir David's aesthetic fervour penetrated
 the spirits of his closest intimates.   His notion about the
passing of the prophet in a flare of trumpets came to
some of us when he passed away, who regretted that
to conclude the Memorial Service at St. Mary Abbot,
                         "
 Kensington, with the Hallelujah Chorus," which always
moved him so much, would hardly be consonant with the
established practice of the Church. Mrs. Andrew writes
in continuation —
    I  have just remembered another occasion when it was
                                         "
my privilege to meet him again              in tune with the
infinite." Many years ago, when Ian McLaren's " Days

                    IAN McLAREN'S           BOOK                287
                          "
of Auld Lang Syne            was coming out in the British
Weekly, we were at our cottage at Muizemberg in S.
Africa. Sir David and Mr. Jacoby, the American astro
nomer, had come down for a breath of the sea, and
we were all sitting on the verandah, when the train
passed with Mrs. Waterston.           She threw us a paper, and
soon came along the road herself, with a request to Dr.
Gill to read about Drumsheugh's fireside to us. It was
the chapter where he and that other noble man, Dr.
McClure, talk over their boyhood's days, how they
guddled for trout, and about the people of the glen, and
the experiences of life which made men and women of
them. Then they began to count how many of them
                   "
had already          passed to the other side," Burnbrae's
"
   long journey," and the death of the little motherless
girl. It was grand to hear our old friend roll it out in
his sympathetic sonorous voice.               We all listened in
rapt     attention,   none of us Celts dry-eyed.          When he
                                    "                "
                                       bit lassiekie on his knee
got to the doctor taking the
                 "                                                "
and saying,        Ye're no feart dautie, ye'll sin be hame ;
" Haud me ticht, Ducksie,
                                  and Mither '11 tak' me oot o'
yer arms," he pitched the paper down, saying, with a
       "  I
sob,        can nae   mair."
    Some of the accounts given of         Gill's passionate appre
 ciation of good music, though he was not a musician,
recall Sir Charles Stanford's words about Tennyson —
    Without being a musician, he had a great appreciation
of the fitness of music to its subjects, and was an unfail
ing judge of musical declamation.              As he expressed it
himself, he disliked music which went up when it ought
to go down, and went down when it ought to go up.1
    The subject of sacred music leads by a natural transi
 tion to that of Religion.        Just as we saw his love for
 music cropping out in the Clerkenwell days as related
 by Mr. Haswell (p. 21), so also his simple, unquestioning
 faith was illustrated to the playfellow of his boyhood
 (p. 9), and to his mother on her deathbed (p. 6).                In
 all these spiritual matters, and in all these ideals, cravings,
    1
      Studies and Memories,  by C. V. Stamford.    Constable, 1908.

 288   PERSONAL TRAITS AND TASTES               [Chap. XXIII
 motives of action, and joyousness, the soul of David
 Gill seems to have remained unchanged from the age of
 ten to seventy.
    It must be told, however, that all through his life
 there was an inherent reserve about higher things, which
 was never broken even to his intimates by any unsought-
 for confidences about his private thoughts and belief.
 And it is a most remarkable fact that, such being the
 case, and in spite of it, he was always perfectly ready
 and willing to answer a direct question upon these
 subjects, as upon any other about which his opinion was
 sincerely asked.    He would even answer the questions
 by a reporter without any objection to their publication.
 When seriously consulted by a friend in trouble, he
 would open his heart to him.
    A curious consequence of this reserve was that few of
 his subordinates had any knowledge of his profound
 piety. One of these (on the strength, as he said, of his
 peculiarly intimate relations with his chief) furnished the
 biographer with what he considered to be an estimate of
 Sir David Gill seen from the inside. Therein, to the
                                                        "
 astonishment of the reader, was the statement :          My
 own impression is that he was an Agnostic "[!] Such
 absolute, incredible ignorance was due simply to the fact
that Gill never did thrust forward his opinions if they
were not asked for.
   One of the very rare occasions of departure from this
habit of constraint and reserve is mentioned in a letter
to Lady Gill written from the Mount Nelson Hotel, Cape
Town, by Miss Leonard, on February 6, 1914.
   The first time I met him [Sir David] was at the Mount
Nelson. A man began to make cynical remarks about
marriage and love — a middle-aged man with a wife and
family.    There were several quite young people present,
and Sir David stood it for a while, with his brows knitted.
                 " Man, have                         " Yes,"
Then he said,                  you got a wife?"
                   " Then
said the man.               you ought to be ashamed of

                            RELIGION                        289
yourself      talking like that." There was a surprised
silence, and then the subject was changed.        But  I  never
forgot. It is so rarely that older people have courage
enough to say things like that, and it helps young people
so much when they have.
    Gill gave great respect to the man who followed
science in any form, but he had little tolerance for
the bad        logic of those who take up the less exact
sciences and who think that physiology supplies the
data for deciding religious questions. His faith was as
simple and thorough as that of Sir Isaac Newton or of the
great leaders of exact science and mathematically accurate
reasoning who were his friends. In common with prac
tically all men who are leaders in any of the exact
sciences, he accepted        Professor Tait's repudiation of
these pseudo-scientists.1       He knew that Sir George
Stokes' absolute belief in divine revelation 2 was invin
cible, that Lord Kelvin's definite pronouncements against
the conclusions of materialists were logically unassail
able,8 and that Clerk Maxwell's lifelong piety and his
deathbed utterance * were the beliefs of perhaps the
most accurate and penetrating seer of the century.
    The Bishop of St. John's, Umtata, Africa, in writing to
the Dowager Lady Loch on February 2, 1914, about Sir
David Gill's death, says —
    And there were some things which one is especially glad
to remember at this time —his perfectly simple faith in the
love of God and our Lord's redemption.           His faith was
steady with the steadiness of real simplicity.     I remember
once meeting at lunch at the Observatory a German
savant who was staying there.            The talk after lunch
turned on scientific subjects general science, I think —
                                  —
   1 Knott's Life of Professor Tail, p. 295.
   * Memoir of Sir George Stokes, by Sir Joseph Larmor.    Cam
bridge,   1907, Sec. I.
     Life of Lord Kelvin, by S. P. Thompson, London. 1910.
   3
vol. ii. pp. 1091-4.
           Life of James Clerk Maxwell, by Lewis Campbell and
   4 The
William Garnet. t. London, 1882, passim, and p. 426.
      U

 20o    PERSONAL TRAITS AND TASTES              [Chap. XXIII
 and Sir David said something which implied — rather
                                      "
 remotely —his own Christianity.        Do you believe in
         "                                     " do,"
 that ?    asked the guest, almost startled.     I      was
 the answer, with a singularly impressive simplicity,
 which no doubt gave more occasion for thought and
 reflection than a long argument.
    At  a memorial service   for Sir David Gill held at St.
 Michael's Church, Observatory, Cape Town, the Rev.
G. F. Gresley said that he might be allowed to say
something about matters which were very little known.
    I may say that we owe the existence of this church
to his courage, his advice, his help, and his liberality.
He was always a regular and devout attendant at
Sunday morning service, and knelt at that altar month
by month to receive the Sacrament.
   All his friends    were   impressed by the solemnity
with which he invariably said Grace before meals.
The one witness who can testify on the matter says
that during the whole of his life every day, morning and
evening, he said his prayers. And, besides this private
devotion, he had family prayers whenever he was not
prevented by astronomical duties. A busy astronomer
is, of course, unable, while on duty, to meet the family
and domestics in this way. Their meetings, in fact,
were very different ; for it often happened that the Dutch
                                                     "
cook, meeting her master at sunrise, would say,        Good
morning, sir," to which he, on his way to bed, would
           "
respond,     Good night, cook."
   A dear friend, writing to him in great trouble, received
the following reply —
   I have the very deepest sympathy with what you tell
me of your inner life — and am thankful that you have
found the only solace and guide in all such troubles.
We, however, never can have by instinct or by any
other way a knowledge of God's purposes towards us —
we can only try to do what we believe He would wish
us to do.

               SYMPATHY WITH SORROW                         291
   In our affections and the closest and dearest relations
of life, instinct, if not rendered unreliable by passion or
self-interest, is generally a good guide. . . . The simplest
rule in all life is to ask one's self what Christ w4 have done
in the circumstances, and then try to do what you
honestly believe He would have done.           None of us can
                    —
always do that but the better we try the better we
shall bear and the better we shall be.
    Often the things that seem to be the greatest trials in
life turn out in the end to be the greatest blessings.     You
cannot grow a hardy flower in a hothouse —it is the trials
of life that make the moral training, just as it is the
poor soil, the winter blast, the unwilling harvest, that
make the hardy Scot about whom we said not a little on
Saturday night at St. Andrew's dinner.
    It has been said    that Sir David Gill had no objection
to answer any questions asked even by an interviewer.
The editor of Great Thoughts, however, makes the
remark —
    From the interviewer's point of view, Sir David pos
sesses  only one fault — he has an invincible objection to
talking about himself and his achievements.
    Yet this interviewer, by direct question, was able to
get this very definite statement from him —
    There is no subject which appeals, or ought to appeal,
more strongly to the imagination than that of astronomy,
nothing which lifts men, or ought to lift them, to a
higher plane of thought, or gives them a better grasp of
the infinite power of the Creator ; nothing that exemplifies
more completely the unity of design that exists in Nature ;
nothing that teaches more the Christian lesson of humility,
and yet, at the same time, affords the highest proof of
the intellectual possibilities open to man.
    It may be all the more worth while drawing attention
to this side of the personality of this great astronomer at
the present time, when the whole civilized world is now
fighting for the laws of God against the rules of right

292      PERSONAL TRAITS AND TASTES                   [Chap.  XXIII
and wrong devised by an arrogant, brutal and impious
race.
     It will  surprise many to find that a man so reticent as
David Gill was quite willing' to answer directly any
question about his faith.
                     To A. H. Tabrun, Esq.
             34 De Vere Gardens, Kensington, London, W.,
                                                 October 16, 1908.
     Dear Sir, — In reply to your letter of the 15th Inst.
You need pay no attention to the anti-religious lecturer
                  —                          "
you wrote of or his assertion that             scientific research
has shown the Bible and Religion to be untrue."
    The assertion is unfounded rubbish.             Look at the
frequent statements to the contrary of our most eminent
men, such as the late Lord Kelvin and Sir George Gabriel
Stokes.1
    People too often try to make cheap capital out of
poetic similes in the Bible— just as if the Bible was a
scientific treatise---which it is not. — Yours faithfully,
                                                  David Gill.
                     To A. H. Tabrun, Esq.
     Dear Sir, — I have no objection to your publishing the
letter as enclosed.       [The one reproduced above.]
                                                           — Yours
faithfully,                                       David Gill.
    Again, in 1909, he was asked by Mr. W. H. Howard
Nash to answer the following questions, and he made no
difficulty.
     1. Is it your belief that the Universe had an Intelligent
First Cause? —Ans. :
                            " Yes."
     2. Do you attribute Personality to that First Cause ?
    1
       The reader may be interested to compare Sir George Stokes'
reply to^he same, or a similar, letter from Mr. Tabrun. It is in
the same sense as Sir David Gill's but fuller; and is followed
by explanatory letters extending over nearly six years, occupying
fifteen pages (vol. ii. pp. 76-90) of his Memoir and Scientific Cor
respondence,    Cambridge,   1907, selected and arranged      by Sir
Joseph Larmor, Sec. R.S., etc.

                          BELIEFS                           293
  3.  Do you believe that Man has the faculty of appre
hending God?
                                                        " Canst
  [Opposite these two questions Gill wrote :]
thou by searching find out God, canst thou find out the
                            "                                "I
Almighty to perfection ? — and added the remark :
do not think that your questions 2 and 3 are capable of
a more definite answer than that which       I have given you
in the words of Job.       What is personality?         What is
apprehending ?
  4. Is it your belief that man's personality " survives in a
conscious state beyond the grave ? — Ans. :       Yes."
  5.  Do  you  believe  that  God  has   revealed  Himself to
                                              —         "
Man pre-eminently through Jesus Christ      ?   Ans.  :   Yes."
                                                "
  6. Do you believe Jesus Christ to be            The Son of
     "
God ? — Ans. :
                  " Yes, in the sense that He said so."
                                                  " free will "
  7. Is it your belief "that Man possesses
within limits? —Ans. :      Yes."
  8. Is it your belief that the Bible contains a Divine
                       "
Revelation ?—Ans. :      Yes."
  Lastly : May we, if necessary, use your name in con
                                       "
nection with your replies? — Ans. :       Yes."
                          (Signed)             David    Gill.

                       CHAPTER XXIV
      THE PERSONAL SIDE OF DAVID GILL (continued)
                Gilliana — Humour — Friendship
The musical    taste and religious faith of David   Gill were
a part of his personality, of the Spirit which       was the
source of his intellectual and physical acts. And to them
were added a genial love for all true people, for all noble
effort, a deep sympathy with those in trouble, and a
bright outlook upon the world and its enjoyment.
   Naturally, such a man quickly detected the humorous
side of any occurrence, enjoyed a witty story, and himself
possessed a store of them.       When resident in London,
after his retirement, he dined out a great deal, and was
regarded as the best of company and a delightful raconteur.
At public dinners, too, he was generally ready to relieve
the tedium of prosy speeches by relating some amusing
anecdote.
   There may have been an occasional slowness to catch
the point of a joke, and some of his best stories may
have been worn rather threadbare. The oft-told story of
a threepenny bit at a distance of a hundred miles is one
in point, but it was not himself who wore it threadbare.
It was the newspaper reporters who got hold of it, and
used it to show his appreciation of a joke even against
himself.
    It might be truly said that, in all his greatest practical
 work of observing, Gill spent his whole life in the hunt
 after one-hundredth of a second of arc, and that he was
 the first astronomer who caught it.        It was to a great
 extent owing to this that we are now able to say that the
                              394

              HUNDREDTH OF A SECOND                       295
 records left by Sir David Gill are probably unsurpassed
 in value by those of any living astronomer who has
 worked upon similar lines.
    In the year 1872, while the writer was studying practical
 astronomy at Greenwich Observatory under Airy, he
 mentioned to Gill a quaint dictum of Airy's (which fairly
 represented the degree of accuracy then sought for by
 astronomers), that
                      " a tenth of a second of arc is the
 smallest thing in the world." In 1876, at Dim Echt,
 Gill showed him his heliometer observations at Mauritius,
 sheets upon sheets of concordant results, and then asked :
 " Will Airy deny now that there is such a thing as a
                                 "
hundredth of a second of arc ?        When visiting England
in 1884, after showing his work upon stellar parallax at
the Cape, he repeated the same question.      At later dates,
when the writer visited him at the Cape, bundles of MS.
were produced to show the results obtained with his new
heliometer, and again the same question was repeated
in the same words.
   That any one should have made a jest of a life's quest
might hurt some people, but no one enjoj'ed the following
joke more than Sir David.
   The small angle referred to (o"oi) is less than that
covered by a threepenny bit at a distance of a hundred
miles.    Gill expressed it so in a lecture on the most
refined measurements attained by astronomers, to the
Institute of Marine Engineers, of which he was the
president, two years before his death. Afterwards he
thoroughly enjoyed narrating how the chairman, at a
dinner in the evening, when proposing the lecturer's
health, said there could be no doubt about his nationality,
because nobody but a Scotsman would bother about a
threepenny bit a hundred miles away.
   Part of the humour of this sally arose from the fact
that Sir David's broad Aberdonian Doric, and rolling
r's, proclaimed his nationality to any one who ever heard
him speak.

296                THE PERSONAL SIDE              [Chap. XXIV
    When lecturing on the Fixed Stars Sir David wanted an
illustration of the distance to the nearest star, a Centauri.
This is what he said —
    We are a commercial people; we like to make out
estimates in pounds sterling. We shall suppose that
some wealthy directors have failed in getting Parlia
mentary sanction to cut a sub-Atlantic tunnel to America,
and so, for want of some other outlet for their energy
and capital, they construct a railway to a Centauri.       We
shall neglect for the present the engineering difficulties —
 a mere detail —and suppose them overcome, and the
railway opened for traffic.
    We shall go further and suppose that the directors
have found the construction of such a railway to have
 been peculiarly easy, and that the proprietors of inter
 stellar space had not been exorbitant in their terms for
 right of way. Therefore, with a view to encourage traffic,
 the directors have made the fares exceedingly moderate —
 viz. first-class at one penny per 100 miles.
    Desiring to take advantage of these facilities, an
 American gentleman, by way of providing himself with
 small change for the journey, buys up the National Debt
 of Great Britain, and of a few other countries, and, present
 ing himself at the booking-office, demands a first-class
 single to a Centauri.     For this he tenders in payment the
 scrip of the National Debt of Great Britain which just
 covers the cost of the ticket ; but I should explain that
 at this time the National Debt, from little wars, coupled
 with some unremunerative Government investments in
 landed property, had run up from 700 millions to 1,100
 millions sterling. Having taken his seat, it occurs to him
 to ask —
     " At what rate do                 "
                          you travel ?
     "
       Sixty miles an hour, sir, including stoppages," is
 the answer.
     " And when shall we reach a Centauri "
                                             ?
     " In
           48,663,060 years, sir."
     "
       Humph     ! rather a long journey."
     When called upon as an astronomer to make an after-
  dinner speech to a mixed audience he often gave them

                       GOOD STORIES                          297
 an astronomical anecdote.     On one occasion he gave the
 following —
    A meteorite fell in a field on a Scottish farm. The
 landlord claimed it under a lease which entitled him to all
 minerals and metals on the land. The tenant, however,
 claimed that it belonged to him because it was not on
 the land when the lease was drawn.        Equal to the occa
sion, the landlord claimed it as
                                     "                    " But
                                       flying game."
it has neither wings nor feathers," rejoined the tenant;
 " therefore, as ground                         At this point
                           game it is mine."
the discussion was cut short by the appearance of a
 Revenue Officer, who took possession of the meteorite
      " an article introduced into the
as                                           country without
payment of duty."
    He was tremendously tickled by the story of Lord
Tullibardine and the sucking pigs that was going round
 London a few years ago. The next time he was at Blair
Castle he asked if it was true. The Marquess replied :
" I never heard
                  it before, and there's not a word of truth
in it, but it's a d      d good story."
    He was in the way of picking up good stories by the
score, but was revolted by the questionable ones which
by some were supposed to be witty. If he were writing
a letter to an intimate friend it was quite a common
thing for him to introduce the last good thing he had heard,
that his correspondent might share the fun. Earl Grey and
he used to have regular sets to in South Africa, capping
each other's tales.    When Lord Grey went to Canada as
Governor General they still swopped yarns by letter.
    Writing home to a great friend at that time he inserts,
d propos de bottes, a story extracted from the following
letter.
                      From   Earl Grey
             Government House, Ottawa, February      14, 1905.
    My dear Astronomer, — A thousand thanks for                so
kindly writing to me from Johannesburg to tell me about
my boy. He writes me excellent letters which lead me
to believe he is both interested and happy.       I hope he is

298               THE PERSONAL SIDE                [Chap.  XXIV
liked by his Chief and appreciated by those with whom
he comes in contact.      You will like him when you get to
know him.
   Here is a story which will amuse you. — A Custom House
officer put the usual question to an American lady the
other day on arrival at New York, as to whether she had
any dutiable goods.
                         " No, nothing but
                                             wearing apparel,"
she persisted, and showed some indignation when the
Custom House officer, distrusting her word, proceeded to
open her box and rummage right to the very bottom.
With triumph he pulled out from below her dresses two
big magnums of whisky, and holding them by the neck
asked the lady what she meant by saying that she had
                                               " I stated what
nothing in her box but wearing apparel.
was the truth," said the lady,
                                   " for you hold in your hand
                                 "
my husband's night-caps !            The official immediately
withdrew his claims, and the lady withdrew in triumph.
   Can you send me back a better one which I can tell
Sir Wilfred Laurier, whose story this is ?
   I am much distressed that you are not able to give me
a better account of your delightful wife.       Please give her
every assurance of my continued devotion.
   I am sorry you saw so little of Halifax. He has been
terribly upset by the death of his favourite sister.
   When you have time please dash me off a line, for I
enjoy keeping myself in touch, as far as possible, with
South Africa.      I remain, yours ever,                Grey.
                       From   Earl Grey
                   Government House, Ottawa, July 9, 1906.
   My dear Astronomer, — When are you coming to pay
me a visit in Canada ?      It is a long time since I saw your
handwriting, or had a laugh over one of your stories. On
this side of the Atlantic old chestnuts are much appreciated,
so when you come bring as many as you can collect.
   Please give my devoted regards to Lady Gill, and if
she comes with you so much the better.
   I remain, yours ever,                                Grey.
                        From Earl Grey
             Dorchester House, Park Lane, March       23, 1895.
   My    dear Grindstone, — Forgive           me.   I  admit I
ought to have my nose pressed well upon it as a reward

                        EARL GREY                        299
for my acknowledge of astronomical observations from
Cape Town, and now I only write, such is the way of
mankind, to ask a favour from you and dear Mrs. Gill,
if I may venture to call her so ! and that is if Lady Helen
Vincent (sister of the beautiful Duchess of Leinster who
is just dead) is still in Cape Town — she sailed in the Scot
last Saturday — will you make a point of finding her out
and being nice to her ? When I tell you she is a beautiful
woman and has a mind and character as beautiful as her
face and has many tastes in common with Mrs. Gill, I
think you'll just shut up your old telescope and bring
upon her the battery of a human eyesight unaided by
any lenses. But I expect you have already made friends,
for I told Sir Edgar Vincent all sorts of nice things about
you and Mrs. Gill and that he was to make a point of
making yr acquaintance before he leaves Cape Town.
   Met Herschell and his wife the other day. We all
cracked you and Mrs. Gill sky high, out of reach even of
your telescopic photographer.
   No time for more this mail, but must beg you to thank
Mrs. Gill from me for her dear letter. It was very kind
and nice of her to write.      I have never thanked you,
have I, for your Grindstone.      I enjoyed it, particularly
its national modesty, and passed it on to another scoffing
but appreciative Southerner. — It is, I believe, getting
quite well-thumbed. — Believe me, with friendly greetings
to dear Mrs. Gill, Yrs most truly.                  Grey.
                      From   Earl Grey
             Government House, Ottawa, February    6, 1905.
   My dear Astronomer, — If you can read any good
stories out of the heavens thro' your telescope, please pass
them on to me — I send you 2 silly stories just for you to
cap.
   Getting on all right here. Everybody anxious to help
with both hands.
   Hanbury Williams, your Nominee, 1st rate, wife
ditto.   No trouble too great and lots of tact. Come and
pay   me  a visit and bring the Divinity with you and in
her red gown.
   Just in from 2 hours on snow-shoes, and every inch of
my body red-hot, altho' the Thermo. says it's zero.
   My Devoted regards to Lady Gill. Yours ever,
                                                    Grey.

300               THE PERSONAL SIDE               [Chap.  XXIV
    Any joke with a university flavour was as acceptable
to him as an astronomical one.       Here is one that he used
to tell.
    An English tourist just arrived in Edinburgh was asked
                                       "
by a ragged urchin for a bawbee.         Do you do anything
for a living ?" he asked.
                             "I
                                beg," was the reply. "What
               father do ?
                             " "
                                   He begs."
                                                 " And
does your                                                  your
mother?" "She begs." "Have you any brothers or
          " "
sisters ?       I've one brother, and he's in the university."
    The Englishman had often heard of the straits under
gone   by many a poor Scottish family, that they might be
enabled to send one of their number to college, and was
delighted to have come across so striking a case of the
father and mother and one of their sons, in poverty, and
 begging in the streets that the other might be educated
and, perhaps, enter the
                            "
                              meenistry."
    So he put a further question about the brother, to which
                    "
the reply came,        He was born wi' twa heids, an' they
keep him in a bottle."
    Although  modest and humble in his dealings with all
men, Gill was never shy nor flustered in the presence of
the most distinguished or exalted personages.         If put in
an awkward position by any circumstance he could save
the situation with a bon mot. One evening after his
retirement he was a guest at a reception in a certain lady's
London house.       He and a most distinguished ecclesiastic
were in close juxtaposition when their hostess advanced
and addressed them in these words :
                                        " I want to make the
greatest astronomer in the world and the greatest preacher
in the world acquainted," and after introducing them,
moved off. There was dead silence between the two men
for some seconds.       Then Gill looked his companion in
the eyes, and said with his humorous twinkle :
                                                         " It is
not often that either of us meets such a distinguished
man." This broke the ice.
   There was certainly a wonderful charm about the man
and his conversation, as all who knew him, however
slightly, testify.    Physically, the ready twinkle of his

                  LOVE OF HIS SCIENCE                       301
eye, the pleasant smile, occasionally only on one side of
the mouth, and the striking and self-reliant, yet enquiring
voice, all played their part.
    Gill's detestation of anything but the best in astro
nomical work of precision sometimes raised a laugh from
the forcible language in which he expressed it. On one
occasion he writes to the secretary of a society —
    I  am returning the paper to Wesley. The paper
justifies Mr. Hough's definition of its author, namely,
" the
         Apostle of the Slap-dash."     The outstanding errors
were from — 4" to + 7* — ! ! ! !
    On another occasion, at a Council meeting, a certain
astronomer whose paper was under consideration wrote
                   "
to withdraw it on account of the pressure which had been
put upon him by Sir David Gill." Whereupon Gill
 burst out :
               " I never
                          put any pressure upon the man at all.
 I only wrote blaw       ..."    and the rest of the sentence
 was lost in general laughter.
    Gill could not understand how any man could be an
 astronomer for the sake of his salary and not for love
 of his science.     Occasionally he had a revelation.        An
 incident connected with one of these men sent him into
 fits of laughter whenever he told this story, which Mr.
 Trimen wrote down when it was told to him —
     One day in Germany Gill was saying good-bye to an
 astronomer with whom he had been settling plans of
 observing, when the latter begged a few moments of
                        "
  confidential talk. — My dear friend," said he,
                                                     " tell me,
                                                             "
  you think, do you not ? —that I am good astronom ? —
  " That                                         "
           requires no argument," replied Gill, it is a patent
         —  "
  fact."      Ach, so ! I am glad to hear your so high
  estimate. But, my friend, that is only my pusiness ;—
  I do it to my utmost, always ; but meine Seele —" what"
                                                             you
  call the heart — nicht so ? — is mit Peetles ! — With
  what?" rejoined Gill in astonishment. The seer then
  rose, and ushered his guest into a smaller room, the walls
  of which were almost wholly occupied with shelves of
                                                   "
  neatly arranged boxes resembling books. — This," he

 302               THE PERSONAL SIDE              [Chap. XXIV
        "
 said,     is my collection of Peeiles — Insecta Coleoptera —
 which,   indeed,  I most of all love ! "
    Gill, suddenly enlightened, could only observe, " Oh,
            — Yes, I                                       "—
  Beetles !            see ;  you have surprised me !
  "
    Scarcely one do I tell of this, my cherished pursuit,"
                             " but I
 declared the Astronom ;              venture to ask you, my
 dear friend, for a very great favour.      You now return to
 the Cape — is it not so ?     My collection is most wanting
 in the Peetles of that land, and I pray you to send me
 some that live there."
    Mr. Trimen goes on to tell us —
    To suffer fools gladly (more or less) is the lot of the
 head of almost every scientific institution in regard to
 the ordinary run of visitors ; and Gill's courtesy and
 patience in this respect, under whatever provocation,
 were unfailing.    But while thus considerate of the frankly
 unlearned, he could ill tolerate pretence or affectation of
 knowledge, and he had an admirable faculty of absolutely
 ignoring any attempted display of the kind.
    He had a still keener detestation of anything mean,
underhand, or disloyal, and on occasion did not hesitate
 promptly to express his strong condemnation.        This was
conspicuously shown in the troubled times preceding the
Boer War, when he publicly as well as privately denounced
the treachery of those — including some of his own personal
acquaintances — who were surreptitiously backing the
machinations against England of the notorious Afrikander
Bond.
    When asked at the Cape why he hated showing in
quisitive ladies or tourists round the Observatory, and
                             "
if it bored him, he said, It's not bored. I don't mind
that, but how would you feel if you saw them desecrating
                                       "
a church and profaning the altar?
    He was asked how it came that, while he liked to hear
people talk of his skill in shooting, he resented the custom
ary praise of his astronomical work. He replied, — As
to shooting, I know I am, or was, a good shot. When we
shot in competitions I was glad to win, and it pleases my
pride to hear people remind me of it. But in astronomy

                         GENIALITY                         303
if  people praise my    work they don't know what they are
talking about. The whole subject is so vast and over
                          " ashamed and humbled " when I
whelming that I feel
think how little I, or any one like me, can do.
    Astronomy was to him a sacred subject.           He could
not bear to hear it spoken of as anything less by the
ignorant would-be learned. But any one who really
sought for information, however ignorant, was met
halfway.
    Mr. Lecson writes from the Athenaeum —
    One day asking him about the double Vega [Sirius ?]
            "
 I said :      Mind you, of course, I am only an amateur " ;
                                      "
he replied — slapping his knee — Why, bless my soul,
 that's exactly what I am."
    Another day, asking him whether he considered our
stellar system was a system in itself, and so, limited, he
             "
 replied — My idea is that if you could get up to the
 Nebula in Andromeda you would see our system and the
 Milky Way as a small cluster of faint stars."
    The breezy atmosphere that Gill carried about with
 him, and spread through any sympathetic coterie in whose
 presence he might' be, is remembered by the wide circle
 of friends, astronomical and otherwise, in whose society
 he spent so much of his time after his retirement while
 he and his wife occupied their charming bright flat in
 Kensington.
    Mr. Trimen tells what a distinguished official at the
 Admiralty once said to him.
     It is always a great treat to his friends here when Gill
 looks us up ; it is like a refreshing breeze that clears away
 dull cobwebs of the London gloom, and the frigid coils of
 red-tape routine seem to relax and shrivel up before his
 genial sincerity and good fellowship.
     Sir Joseph Larmor, writing from Cambridge, says —
     I  well remember a meeting of the Astronomical Club
  here at which I was invited to meet him, when the vigour

304                THE PERSONAL SIDE             [Chap. XXIV
and insistence of his onslaught on the problems of dis
crepancies between aberration and solar parallax acted
as a refreshing storm does on a stagnant atmosphere.
    In the same way   Gill's dominant personality at scientific
conferences     in Paris has been recorded by some who
were present.
    Mr. Knobel relates the following anecdote —
   During the Paris Congress of 1887 Gill and some other
astronomers called upon Dr. Lohse of the Potsdam
Observatory, who spoke English very well. Gill at once
began a long explanation to Lohse of the aims and objects
of the Congress, in which he touched upon several matters,
all in his vigorous Aberdonian.        At the conclusion he
said,
        " I "hope you have quite understood me ? " Lohse
replied,      Not a word." (Roars of laughter.)
   The following is told by Mr. A. Hinks about Gill.
    It was an unending pleasure to watch him at the Paris
Conferences; his extraordinary flow of very Aberdonian
French and the courage with which he would tell
humorous stories and wonder what had become of the
point in the translation, and the ease with which he
            ******
converted any evening function into a dance, and the
extraordinary respect in which he was held by the
scholastic kind of astronomer who had no idea beyond
the text-books, were all quite delightful to see.
    Of course the first thing that struck one was his single-
hearted enthusiasm. I have never known any one else
so absolutely keen, and so fully convinced that whatever
he took up was worth doing with all his might.             He
showed this in everything.       And, of course, it naturally
followed that he had some difficulty in understanding
how anybody else could think differently or that anybody
else was thinking about anything else except the subject
which occupied his mind. This was sometimes amusingly
illustrated in such cases as an astrographic conference.
I have seen him come into the middle of a discussion,
and without waiting to gather in the slightest degree
what was under way, he would burst in with a vehement
harangue on what he imagined ought to have been under

                    MR. FLINDERS        PETRIE               305
           "
way.         It is Jupiter tonans," remarked Backlund one
day when he had been presiding.
    So at the Cape meeting of the B.A., when Kapteyn
was reading his great paper on star-streams, Gill broke
in every half minute with a question or an argument,
so that at the end of Kapteyn 's paper Forsyth very
                                  "
adroitly called upon Gill to continue the discussion."
    But his intense interest in hearing the reading of a really
great scientific paper, announcing results achieved by
patience, the work of a genius, generally overwhelmed
him with the silence of that deep humility which was
always part of his nature.
    Mr. Flinders Petrie recalls a remarkable scene to
memory, perhaps the most delightfully characteristic of
all the Gilliana which are current among his intimates.
    At   a   Royal Society meeting Dr. G. E. Hale (U.S.A.)
was     describing his marvellous solar photographs in a
single spectral ray.         At the end of the address the
President asked Sir David if he would say something.
He rose slowly to his full height, said — " Wor-r-shipful
                    "—
admir-r-ation          and sat down again.
    The same friend and admirer of Sir David's, who had
helped in reducing his Egyptian Pyramid triangulation
in 1879 tells of another incident —
    When      Gill was President of the British Association
 [1907]   I  happened   to join a carriage with him and others.
He did not notice some one saluting him in the street,
and one of his friends said to him that he must remember
he was President and be on his dignity. He replied,
"
   That is just what my brother said to me — Davie,' said
                                                   '
     '
he, you've no more dignity than a duck.'
                                                 "
   When        Gill had completed the Cape Observatory,
equipped with instruments in many ways surpassing
those in any other observatory,             with something of
Airy's discipline at Greenwich, and something of Otto
Struve's patriarchal astronomical colony at Pulkowa,
he had        piled  up such    a  mass  of definite results  of
       x

306               THE PERSONAL SIDE              [Chap.  XXIV
patient labour as would have filled with pride any one
with less exacting standards than his own. His retire
ment to England did not interrupt his astronomical
activities.    And it gave him the unalloyed happiness,
from which his twenty-seven years of exile had debarred
him, of being in the centre of intellectual, artistic, and
social activities.    He derived uninterrupted pleasure
from the easy intercourse with old friends, and the oppor
tunities of making new ones. And this pleasure was
reciprocated.     Astronomers, too, from all parts of the
world were often for the first time able to feel that friendly
handshake of his and learn his appreciation of their own
work.
    Among these, Dr. G. E. Hale, the able Director of the
Mount Wilson Solar Observatory in California, who
became one of his continuous correspondents, has been
kind enough to write his impressions of the beginning of
their friendship.
    I  shall never forget my first encounter with Sir David
Gill. The library of the Royal Astronomical Society was
crowded prior to meeting, and tea was in progress.        Some
one    said  that Sir David wished to meet me and       led me
towards him.       I must confess that while I went with
pleasant anticipation, there lay beneath it a slight measure
of doubt. Gill in his post of vantage at the Cape, had
always impressed me as a strong and vigorous leader,
whose preoccupation with research          and organization
in the field of the older astronomy would leave little room
 for sympathy with so unorthodox a worker as myself.
 It is true that his visit to Potsdam and his enthusiasm
 for the pioneer labors of Vogel in the photography of
 stellar spectra, had modified my impression in some
 degree, especially after the radial velocity campaign had
 been inaugurated with his customary vigor at the Cape.
 But the old doubts still lingered in my memory when I
 met him face to face.
    The cordial hand-grasp and the smile which is still
 before me swept all such vapors away.           Certainly no
 space was left for other thoughts when he asked, with
 little preliminary :
                       " What are
                                   you going to do with that

                      DR. G. E. HALE                      307
                      "
five-foot reflector ?    I attempted to sketch the observa
tional programme we had been formulating.          But before
 I could finish he burst out, " All wrong     !  You should
                                           " I had
do nothing but radial velocity work I                scarcely
begun a defense of my views when the meeting was
announced, and we were separated until later in the
evening.
   We dined at the Criterion with the Astronomical
Society Club, where I heard again with pleasure the
informal talk, full of quiet humour, which contrasts so
agreeably with our set after-dinner speeches.         Hardly
were the toasts concluded when Gill brought his chair
over to mine, and remarked,
                                " Now
                                        go ahead and defend
yourself."    The twinkle in his eye overcame any possible
fear of aggressive intent, and the cordial interest he
showed in my plans, which he soon admitted might be
worthy of a trial, was characteristic of the man. Time
has shown how much reason lay in his claims for the
importance of radial velocity measures.       Formerly they
entered only incidentally into my scheme, which was to
bear directly on the physical problems of stellar develop
ment. At present, when half of the time of the 60-inch
is devoted to radial velocity work, which will play a
similar part in the programme of the 100-inch reflector,
I could hardly argue with conviction against the views
he then expressed.
   Thus began a friendship which, I am proud to say,
lasted through his life.
   Dr. Hale goes on to tell of the very great help that was
given to him by Gill in designing the details, both optical
and mechanical, of the great 100-inch reflector now being
installed at Mount Wilson.
   The personal friendship thus brought by Gill into his
professional relations with astronomers from abroad is
referred to by many correspondents. The Imperial
Russian astronomer, Dr. Backlund, says —
   Generally speaking, Gill's character was such that
when he took scientific interest in a person he intermingled
also personal friendship.      Gill was an uncommonly
harmonic    man,   in him the highest scientific qualities

308                 THE PERSONAL SIDE               [Chap. XXIV
were joined with moral purity.            He was one of the
tenderest of husbands I ever met ; owing to failing health
Lady Gill was seldom able to accompany her husband
to Congresses ; he then wrote or wired daily to her — to
                          "
use his own words — to my darling."
    At  the farewell banquet in Cape       Town to Sir David
Gill, the Hon. E. H. Walton, while proposing his health,
used these words —
    We shall miss him and his breezy pleasant presence;
we shall miss his resonant voice ; we shall miss his trans
parent sincerity —his honest hatred of cant and sham and
humbug.        We shall miss his great heart, and his ever-
 ready sympathy.        We shall miss him as a friend, and as
a citizen who has ever been prepared to take on his broad
 shoulders his full share of the duties of citizenship.
    Referring to this speech, the local paper said —
    And if the Astronomer Royal will be missed, the
gracious lady who has been his helpmeet throughout the
long period of his service in the Colony, will also leave a
blank that will be felt in the social life of the community.
 Lady Gill may well be regarded as one of the best and
 sincerest friends the Colony has ever possessed. . . .
 The progress of the Observatory-road Church, the estab
 lishment of nursing centres for those whose means did not
 allow of this necessary aid at their own cost, the founda
 tion at the Cape University of a Victoria Scholarship for
 Colonial girl students, the extension of the Women's
 Diocesan Association — of which she has been the beloved
 president since its inauguration by Lady Loch in 1890 —
 all these, and several other beneficent works owe nearly
 all they possess of prosperity to her clear intellect, her
 never-failing enthusiasm, and, above all, her unfailing
  tact and unsparing personal attention to detail. . . .
    It is difficult, too, to depict from the outside the feelings
 Lady Gill excited by years of loving interest in all that
 affected the happiness of those who lived within her own
 immediate circle at the Observatory.

                      CHAPTER XXV
       THE PERSONAL SIDE OF DAVID GILL (continued)
          The love of sport — His first great deer-stalk.
No friend of Gill's ever claimed that he was a great theorist.
He had none of the speculative power of a Clerk Maxwell,
Faraday or Kelvin; none of the mathematical depth of
insight possessed by Stokes or Rayleigh.         His intellectual
power and his upbringing had more in common with
Stephenson or Brunei or James Watt; or, in his own
special department of science, with Tycho Brahe, Bradley
or, perhaps, most of all, W. Struve.
   We often notice that many a man, while striving for
a position in science, may keep in the background his
tastes in other directions.       Gill could not pose. He
 never desired to appear, to himself or to others, in private
 or in public, in youth or old age, anything but exactly
what he was. The most stern and unbending of astro
nomers, or the most bigoted intellectual, had to accept
 him not merely as an astronomer, but also as a gregarious
 being, fond of society, of music and dancing, of humour,
of beauty in nature and art, of golf, or of sport with gun
or rifle.
   To understand the man in his entirety this last point
must now be accentuated. There is no doubt his early
skill and precision of hand and eye, with the match rifle,
was allied to his remarkable powers of accurate observation
of the stars.
   His care to make every single shot with the rifle tell
upon his scoring card to eclipse the scores of his com
                               309

  310               THE PERSONAL SIDE               [Chap.  XXV
  petitors was exactly the same as his care to make every
  single observation with the heliometer tell upon his
  resulting probable error, to eclipse the probable error of
  his fellow-observers.
     The wholesome glow of vitality which the true sports
  man feels in a successful stalk, in following a well-trained
  pointer, or in facing the whirr of driven grouse at the
  butts, is not easily acquired by one not bred to it, and
 this spirit was a part of David Gill. It found fuller free
 dom for its realisation after his retirement.        But long
 before that his letters often show his desire to arrange
 an astronomical meeting so as not to interfere with a
 legitimate opportunity for a day on the moors.
    One of the most vivid impressions of the non-astro
 nomical side of Sir David Gill is contained in a long letter
 to his brother Jem in Australia, in 1go1, after one of his
 home visits. If any astronomer grudges this space which
 might have been given to science, he may be surprised
to know that the greater number of Gill's friends were
not astronomical;      and these friends on their side may
justly say that, if this book aims at giving memories
of the man himself, far too much space has been devoted
to astronomy.
    This letter (most fortunately preserved with many
others by James Gill) is a sample, and the best possible
sample, of his enjoyment of life, and of the happiness
he derived from his very wide circle of dear friends,
and is particularly valuable as giving his experiences the
first time he ever went deer-stalking in the highlands.
                 Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                           1901, February  23.
   My dear Jem, — I have been an abominably bad corre
spondent, but when I came back here in Nov. I found
myself so overwhelmed with accumulated arrears of work
that I put off all private correspondence for that more
convenient season which is always so long a-coming.
    Yr letter telling me that you had remitted £125 each

igoo]               A REAL HOLIDAY
          ******
                                                        311
to the boys and myself from proceeds of Xmas Creek
is confirmed by the arrival of a letter from Harvey Hall
— and he has doubtless duly sent official receipts.
   I've had an awfully good time at home.
   We sailed on the 8th April [1900] in one of the inter
mediate steamers and touched at St. Helena, Ascension,
Teneriffe and Madeira.      Bella was a good sailor for her,
and arrived in England much better than she left the
Cape —except that a growth under her big toe had de
veloped during the voyage, giving her great pain, and it
had to be cut out under chloroform the day after we
arrived.
   Our friend McClean (the donor of the new telescope here)
was waiting at the platform, and we drove to his house —
1 Onslow Gardens — and stayed with him and his family
the first three weeks.      A few days before the Queen's
birthday I got an invitation to dine with the First
Lord of the Admiralty, and fancied from that there must
be some honour in store. The day before the birthday
I had an interview with Mr. Chamberlain about the
political situation, etc. — he having sent for me — and at
                          "
the end of it he said,      I hoped to congratulate you to
morrow, but Mr. Goschen has asked you to his dinner."
When I got back to Onslow Gardens I found Bella and
Mrs. McClean in great excitement — a messenger having
arrived from the Foreign Office with a letter from Lord
Salisbury addressed to me, and which of course they
had opened to find an announcement that the Queen
had been pleased "in consideration of your distinguished
position in Astronomy" to create you a Knight Com
mander of the Bath — and conveying Lord Salisbury's
personal congratulations.
   We had a very delightful visit to the McCleans — its
only drawback being that Bella was unable to go about
for the first fortnight till the toe healed. Then we went
                                    —
into rooms in Emperor's Gate where we were most
comfortable, the Landlord being a retired Butler and his
wife a retired Cook — and both excellent.
   The Athenaeum had elected me, under Rule II, a very
exceptional distinction when one is not resident in Eng
land. They used to make me an Hon* Member during
my visits to England, but so far as I know the only
members elected under Rule       II who are not resident in

312               THE PERSONAL SIDE                [Chap. XXV
England are Sir Alfred Milner, Mr. Cecil Rhodes, Sir Frank
Lascelles (British Ambassador in Berlin) and myself.
Under Rule II nine members are elected annually, but
      "
the     Club intrusts this privilege to the Committee in
the entire confidence that they will only elect persons
who shall have attained to distinguished eminence in
science, literature or the arts, or for public services."
   Bella, after a little burst of dissipation, found that she
had to limit her dissipations to two dinners a week —
but I think during May and June I only dined or lunched
three times at home (except when the McCleans had a
party at home).      Bella's foot began to bother her again,
and this was a sad worry to her, especially when we
went in the beginning of July to the McCleans' beautiful
place near Tunbridge Wells.       There I left her at the end
of the first week of July, and went over for a week to
Holland, to visit my friends Prof. Kapteyn of Groningen,
and Bakhuyzeh at Leiden — and I stopped for a day
with Sir Henry Howard, our Ambassador at the Hague.
   I picked Bella up at Tunbridge Wells, and we returned
for a week to our old rooms at Emperor's Gate, went to
Windsor and recd my K.C.B. at the hands of the dear
old Queen, and I believe I am the last man who received
that distinction at her hands.
   A day or two after that I went over to Paris to attend
the Astrographic Congress, and remained there some 10
days. Bella's foot was so troublesome that she could
not go to Paris with me. Returning to London we went
a few days afterwards to Harrogate, where I put Bella
under the care of Dr. Frank Smith (a brother of Elmslie
Smith of Aberdeen).        He seemed a capable man — said
the growth had not been properly excised and proceeded
to burn out the rest of it with nitric acid. It was a
horribly painful process — but by the end of a month the
cure was complete, and she has had no more trouble.
   I only remained in Harrogate till the 11th Aug* and
then went north to shoot Andrew's moor !
   I saw my old friend Tom Duff of Drummuir — but he
had let his shooting.
   I also spent a night with Andrew Baird —now a retired
R.E. Colonel, who has built himself a very pretty house
near Elgin, and then Andrew and I went to his friends

i9oo]                    VISITING                       313
Baynes of Finlay where we had a little shoot —some 6 or
7 brace
         — the birds as wild as the wind.
    I drove thence to Allargue, on Donside — where I had
a couple of days with J. W. Barclay —42 \ brace the first
day, and 25 (a short day) the next. From there I drove
across to Aboyne (stopping by the way to lunch with Sir
John Clarke at Tillypronie), dined with Harvey Hall,
went next day with him to Mrs. Pickering (Bella's cousin)
at Kincardine O'Neil Castle, where I was strongly tempted
to stay for salmon fishing — an afternoon party at Dess-
wood, where I met all Deeside, and dinner with John
White at Bridge of Don.
    Then back to Harrogate.      Bella had been well looked
after at Harrogate by our quondam Cape Admiral — Sir
Fred. Richards, and General and Mrs. Cox (formerly
commanded the troops in Natal).        A few days in Harro
gate and then Bella and I went off to Tapton Hall, Chester
 field, where we spent a couple of days with the Markhams.
— from there we drove to Peversal, where we stayed for
 three days with Lady Carnarvon, who is an old friend —
 widow of the late Lord Carnarvon; Bella then went up
 to London and I went to Wynyard Park to stay 3 or 4
 days with the Londonderrys.         We had Sir Wm. and
 Lady Harcourt there, the old Duchess of Cleveland (a
 wonderfully spry old lady considering she was one of the
 Queen's bridesmaids), Lord Shrewsbury (Lady London
 derry's brother), Canon Tristram of Durham, young
 Vernon Harcourt and his wife, and some others. Bella
 didn't feel able to go and had to excuse herself at the last
 moment.
     Then up to London.     I ought meanwhile to have told
 you that we brought a Miss Rankine with us from the
  Cape, who is a trained nurse — so that Bella was never left
  alone. After a week in London I ran back to Ross-shire,
  where I had long promised to go for some deer-stalking.
  There is a young fellow Cookson who is very fond of
  astronomy— who is completing his studies at Cambridge
  and is coming here to work at practical astronomy.      His
  Father is a very rich man and has the forest of Braemore
  in Ross-shire. I never had a chance of Highland deer
  stalking and was very keen for a shot. Before going out
  the first day I insisted on sighting the rifle, which had
  been fitted with an aperture back sight — and found it
  quite out —shooting about a foot too low at 130 yds.

3M               THE PERSONAL SIDE               [Chap. XXV
I found the correct reading — viz. 300 yds. for 130, so that
I felt I could hit anything.
   To cut a long story short — After a lot of spying &c, we
found that there was nothing but a long flank movement.
   We were at the point O where we had been spying.
There were several lots of deer on the opposite hill, but
none heavy enough to shoot.
   About   12  o'clock 4 deer — one of them a big one —
apparently started from C having got our wind and got
into the moss hag where they rolled — or rather the big
stag did, for half an hour. Then he apparently forgot
about us and went and laid down at A. " Now," said the
stalker, " we've got to go back the way we came, go round
by the loch, and climb over those hills by the back and
come down on him."        I have shown the line we walked
till we came to D.then down we dropped flat in the heather,
and we thought it was all up, for three deer who had been

 igoo]           HIS FIRST DEER-STALK                      315
feeding at or near the point C, caught sight of us —and
away they went as hard as they could go along the
dotted line from C, and our friend at A got up to look,
and seemed on the point of going off too. But we had
been too quick for him, and after looking for half an hour
he lay down again and the others at A began to feed.
Then keeping as flat as we could we crept on hands and
knees or on belly over any open ground along the dotted
black line [the line DB] — till we were well round the corner
of the hill. Then we climbed up — 800 feet — to the top
and then slithered down a burn flat on our backs — then
crept out of the burn on our bellies behind some low rocks
— and then the old stalker said, " Now if you look round
that rock you'll see yr stag.       He's only 60 yards off,
behind a rock, you can just see a bit of his back and his
horns, and you must wait till he gets up before you
shoot."
   When I looked there he was —
                                            ofshot.
I  put the bead on him, crept back to the stalker and said,
" Bosh, man, I'll hit any square inch of him         ." " Na,
na, ye manna shoot — I'd no kill him mysel."         " But," I
said, " it's quite easy, I'll break his back anywhere from
his neck two feet back that you like." — " Well, if you can
just clear the rock with yr bullet and no more you can
shoot — but I wouldn't if I were you." Back I went, put
the bead on him — waited half a minute to see how close
to the rock I could shoot to be sure. I knew exactly what
the rifle wd do at 130 y^ so I said to myself, if I just put
a full sight on the rock edge I'll just clear safely at 60 yds
— and so I did and fired. The stag didn't move— a shiver
ran along its back and it tried to raise its head— that was
all — it was dead.    When we gralloched him the bullet
had entered an inch to the right of the spine and
passed clean through the centre of the heart — and he
weighed 17s* I2lb.

316              THE PERSONAL SIDE                [Chap. XXV
   We had a glorious picnic next day — and the next I was
out again. This time the deer were on the face of a hill.
and we could not get at them. The deer were at A and
B. We got to C and could only watch them and hope
they wd feed in our direction — but they didn't — and we
had to wait till they fed off the forest. About 5 p.m.
the coast was clear and we had a heavy climb to the top.
We were hardly there when we saw the tips of a pair of
antlers — and for more than an hour we crept about on
our bellies. The wind very light and shifty, the stags
(there were two) unable to make us out and continually
moving.     At last, just as it was getting dark, I saw first
a pair of horns come up behind a rock at 130 y*s from
where I was — and finally two stags came and looked over
— showing only their necks. They saw something and
couldn't make out what. I put my bead on the neck
of the bigger one, but could barely see and took it off and
on once or twice to make sure — then fired, and to my
great joy over he went. I loaded and went up —but he
was unable to move and the gillie gralloched him.         He
was only 14s* 5lb but a good head.        It was now getting
dark and before I got to the pony quite dark — and then
a 6 mile ride.    I found all at dinner — and tremendous
rejoicings when they heard of my luck. After dinner we
had the pipes up, turned up the servants and danced
reels till midnight.
   On return to London we went again to the McCleans
at Rusthall, Tunbridge Wells, where I left Bella and ran
over to Paris for 5 days to attend the International
Geodetic Congress —where I proposed my scheme for an
arc of Meridian along the 30th Meridian from the Cape
to Cairo. It was well received.

igoo]                   MORE VISITS                      317
    After a few days at Rusthall we returned to London
and then went together to Botley on a few days visit
to Adm1 Sir Noel and Lady Salmon (one of our old
admirals here) and then on to the Isle of Wight for a few
days with Ad1 and Lady Hunt Grubbe (another of our
old admirals).      We spent the remaining 3 weeks of
October in London, where everyone was very kind to us.
I gave a farewell dinner to my scientific friends at the
Athenaeum — Lord Kelvin, Hunt Grubbe, Mr. McClean,
Frank Newall, Christie, Lockyer, Downing, Sir John
Burdon Sanderson, Sir Bartle Frere, Sir Wm. Westland
(son of old Westland the banker) , Adm1 Sir Fred. Richards,
Ad1 Sir Wm. Wharton (the Hydrographer) , Sir John
Ardagh (head of the Intelligence Dept. of the War Office),
Knobel (Pres. of the R.A.S.), Prof. G. Darwin, and we
sailed on the 3rd Nov. for the Cape.
    Bella was wonderfully better, but her old headaches
came back on her arrival here.      However I am thankful
to say of late she has been ever so much better and is
full of all sorts of plans —looking after soldiers' graves,
 a bazaar she is to get up here in November to raise funds
 for our church, etc., etc.
    We saw a good deal of Harry at home.        He was with
 us all the month of August at Harrogate.      He has grown
 a nice boy — but not at all clever, and failed for his first
 army Exam, the other day. Fred is going to be a mining
 engineer — passed his matriculation    examination and is
 at the South African College and hard at work.        Bruce
 is a fine little chap, but very small for his age, but very
 bright and keen.
           *         *      *       #       #       »
    All goes well at the Observatory. We are just going
 to put up a New Transit Circle — I have also two big
 surveys on hand. The Anglo German Boundary Survey
 between British Bechuanaland and German S.W. Africa
 — (both Governments having placed the work in my
 hands), and the geodetic survey of Rhodesia.
    The miserable tail end of this war drags along.
  Marauding bands of Boers go about, plundering and
  stealing and occasionally catching a train.    They never
  stop to fight — and are as hard to catch as bush-rangers.
  I think they are getting out of ammunition now.
     Fred has joined the town guard and promises to be a
  good shot.

318                THE PERSONAL SIDE               [Chap.  XXV
   Do you ever see Sir Sylvester Browne — if so remember
me kindly to him — Bella also.
   How is yr dear little wife ? We long to see her. Give
our dearest love to her and the same to you. This is a
tremendous letter —but I hope it will interest you. —
Yr loving brother,                             David    Gill.
   The love for sport, in its truest sense, is manifest in the
above letter, written in 1901. Even in South Africa he
often went buck-shooting in Natal, Beaufort West, etc.,
to recuperate. But this taste had the fullest scope in his
old age after settling at home.      He then found that the
fixed focus of old eyes interfered with accurate rifle
shooting, so latterly he always used a telescope sight
when deer-stalking.       He went regularly for this sport
to Ardkinglas, Sir Andrew Noble's estate on Loch Fyne.
Miss Noble has sent some recollections of his enthusiasm.
           ******
                      From Miss Noble
             J esmond Dene House, Newcastle-on-Tyne,
                                               March  1, 1915.
   Dear Lady Gill, —
   I   think one may say that he was happy with us, and
it was a great joy and pride to feel that it was so. One
day he had shot stags right and left I think, at all events
there were two remarkably fine shots — and he insisted
on waltzing with me after dinner in honour of the event
— we were a very small party — and my mother had per
force to play a waltz — and we danced round with great
gaiety. But he was always contented and happy —
another day he came in just as cheerful as ever — but he
had shot nothing —no, but a lovely day — a magnificent
stalk — they had seen the tip of the horns with a glass
and crept up — and behold it was a dead stag !
                                                          "
                                                            But
                                                   "
I had all the fun and excitement of a stalk !           He was
always so contented and cheerful and full of fun — besides
                         "
                           in all things made it a privilege
     '
his     right judgment
to hear him talk.
   Yours affectionately,              Lilias H.  G. Noble.

                PHEASANT SHOOTING                       319
  Mrs. Lowe, of Gosfield Hall, Essex, sends notes of some
days Gill had with her pheasants.
  He shot with us on Oct.   13, 1910.  I remark  the under
growth was so prodigious after the hot summer that no
ground game could be seen. The bag was 349. — Again
Nov. 9, same year, when he told this story : Two Scots
                         " Well, hoo are                  "
men met one another.                     ye an' the wife?
"Oh! the wife's deid." "Ah so, and hoo was it?"
"
  You see, I found her poorly, so I just gave her a powder
the Doctor had once put up for me that I didn't use—
an' in twa hoors she was deid. Eh, mon, I was terrible
                                  "
glad I had na ta'en it mysel !
   1911.   He shot on October 12 and the bag was 426
ph*3  and  a total of 440.    1912.   He shot on October
11th, temp. 540, a brilliant day. The bag was 504, and
he came home triumphant and in the bonniest of spirits.
O so merry all the evening.
  The same year 1912. I have the entry
                                                 "
                                                   my dear
delightful friends arrived, Sir David Gill and Mr. J.
Murray. At the Cock shoot the bag was 332. Mr.
John Murray stepped into a hole and hurt his knee."
But we had a bright evening and Sir David wd agree
with me
          " there's
                    nothing half so good as laughing."
                       —
   1913. November 13 Our Cock shoot and a cold bleak
day. Sir David and Mr. Murray Senr were both with us.
It poured in torrents at 3 o'clock — and the guns came in
soaked through — but Sir David as cheerful as ever—
and so jolly and kind, and so afraid we should think he had
not enjoyed it. I thought him however looking aged
and his hair much whiter.
   Further accounts of Sir David's love for outdoor life
and sport in the highlands appear throughout his corre
spondence; and the chapter which will follow, dealing
with his mode of spending the summer and autumn, in
the years of his retirement from the Cape, tells the same
tale.

                      CHAPTER XXVI
                 LIFE IN LONDON FROM I906
    De Vere Gardens — His
                           "       "
                             Study — His friends — Lady Gill's
34
     drawing-room His activities in London and Paris — His
                   —
     troubles — London amusements, and occupations.
When the Gills came finally home, some one said to him,
" I
     suppose you will take up your abode in Aberdeen or
                                "                         " I
the quiet of the Highlands?         To which he replied,
shall settle down just as near to Burlington House as my
income will allow me." He had no intention of dis
connecting himself from the scientific associations of his
life even if his days for the regular observation of stars
were over.
   After a short time spent in looking round, they estab
lished their lares and penates in a charming flat with a
distant prospect over London, at the top of a house,
34 De Vere Gardens, Kensington.        Here, in his comfort
able study, he used to receive his friends, scientific or
otherwise ; and here were discussed many of the great
astronomical instruments and researches with which he
was in close contact, dealing with the progress of astro
nomy in all parts of the world.      His advice was eagerly
sought, because his vast experience both in construction
and operation was, in many branches of the science,
 quite unrivalled.    His encouragement, too, was enthu
 siastically given to callers from all parts of the world.
 The astronomer who had new ideas received welcome
 hints. The one who felt the drudgery of a long research
 left that room with an access of youthful enthusiasm.
The one whose health was broken by his exertions was
                              320

                34  DE VERE GARDENS                      321
helped to wait in patience, and, when this was possible,
some of his labours were moved to the older man's
shoulders. The astronomer who needed support, or even
financial assistance, found in that study a plan devised
by which his labours would be appreciated in the proper
quarter at home or abroad, and his difficulties removed.
    Every one who was honestly doing his best, on leaving
that study felt how much there is to be done that is
worth doing ; and what boundless happiness was open to
                                               "a
any one who could see in the work of to-day        connected
portion of the work of life," a something worth striving
for.
    He loved to have in his study a selection of the younger
men engaged in the active pursuit of astronomy, to learn
all about their work, to argue for or against some project,
to suggest alterations or improvements, and generally to
                               "       "
 enjoy himself in a pleasant     crack   over a cigar about
 matters of common and absorbing interest to them.
 Seldom did any of these friends leave his study without
 finding that his own love for science, and enthusiasm for
 his work, had been stimulated.
    At other times the study at De Vere Gardens became
 the scene where was rehearsed the line of action to be
 taken in some co-operative work of science.         Many a
 plan was brought to birth at the Royal Astronomical
 Society, the National Physical Laboratory, the Astro-
 graphic Congress, the International Bureau, the Congress
 of National Ephemerides, or the Commission des Instru
 ments et Travaux, whose origin could be traced to careful
 discussion in the study at De Vere Gardens.
    During his retirement one of his greatest joys was
 receiving visits from foreign astronomers. Professor
 Kapteyn often ran over from Groningen, alone or accom
 panied by his wife, to stay with the Gills in their flat and
 to discuss some question of sidereal astronomy; and he
 nearly always made London a halting-place in his annual
 voyages to and from Mount Wilson.           These occasions
      Y

322                LIFE IN LONDON              [Chap. XXVI
were seized upon when convenient for getting together
many other astronomers, when the Carte du del or star
streams would be discussed, or the plan of selected areas,
or the average parallaxes and proper motions of stars
differing in magnitude, or the evidence for a light-
absorbing medium in space, or a rational system of
photometry.     Many a symposium of congenial souls dis
cussed there, often in a cloud of tobacco, the nebulae
and star problems of the outer realms of space.
   At other times the table would be littered with blue
prints of machinery, while the director of some foreign
observatory picked up suggestions about mechanical or
optical construction.
   When he had a morning to himself there was plenty of
work to be done, because his astronomical correspondents
included the occupants of half of the world's great
observatories. Moreover, he had much to do in the
writing of papers and articles and lectures, while he was
never free from the duty of completing in spare hours
his History of the Cape Observatory, forming an Introduc
tion to the Description which he had finished before his
retirement.
   The wide range of his experience and knowledge in
literature, science and many arts always kept conversa
tion around their hospitable table at a high level. The
subject depended entirely on the tastes of the guests.
   Thus it happens that many a man who thought he
knew him well knew only the part of Sir David's mind
that coincided with his own tastes.   One sportsman with
whom Gill often went out deer-stalking said to the
                         " knew,
writer, after his death,  I       of course, that Gill went
in for astronomy, but it never occurred to me till I
read the obituary notices that he was anything like the
greatest astronomer in the world.      Anyway, he was a
good sportsman."
   On the other hand, an astronomer who knew him very
intimately writes : "No one, I should think, ever talked



                   SIR FRANK DYSON                       323
shop more industriously and with keener pleasure.          It
seemed impossible to talk of anything else, except the
things he was continually revolving in his mind."
   Had this friend met him at a country house party he
would have had his eyes opened.
   The Astronomer Royal, Sir Frank Dyson, describes his
first introduction to the study at De Vere Gardens.
   Shortly after his return from the Cape he invited me
and a few other astronomers to meet Kapteyn, who was
staying a few days in London on his way between
Groningen and Mount Wilson.        This was the first of a
number of delightful evenings I have spent with him of
which I shall always retain the memory. On this occasion
Gill took us into his study after dinner, and promptly
                                                "
started the conversation on star-streams.         Newcomb
once said to me," he remarked,
                                    " '
                                        There is nothing I
enjoy so much as a talk with astronomers about astro
nomy '; and I entirely agree with him."
   The evening quickly passed in conversation on astro
nomical topics, diversified by an occasional reminiscence
or a Scottish story ; and one left with the feeling that it
was a splendid thing to be an astronomer, that there were
so many interesting things to do, and that it was a great
honour to be in the succession of such a man as Gill.
   Several times it was my good fortune to go with Gill
to Paris to one of the astrographic or other conferences.
All the astronomers there seemed to be old friends of his.
Talking to this one and that, he assisted the conferences
most materially in coming to practicable and useful
decisions.   He had, of course, carefully considered the
questions beforehand. But constantly he would invite
different astronomers round to the St. James' Hotel,
where he stayed ; and in the lounge of the hotel various
points were thrashed out, with the assistance of cigars, and
                           "
sometimes French spoken in all the languages of Europe."
   The conversation did not keep at all strictly to the
subjects to be discussed at the conference, but often took
a more personal turn.     At these friendly meetings one
saw how much Gill enjoyed the company of his fellow-
astronomers, and how interested he was in their welfare
and the work they had in hand.
   After his return to London he retained a great interest

324                 LIFE IN LONDON              [Chap. XXVI
in the work of the Cape, and nothing gave him more
pleasure than the success of the Victoria telescope and
the new Transit Circle, and the skill with which they were
handled. He frequently showed me letters he had
received from Hough and Halm, and he often spoke
enthusiastically of members of his former staff.
   Two of his friends, to whom he was most attached
throughout his life, were Admiral Richards and Admiral
Wharton, who was Hydrographer during a large part of
Gill's tenure of office.
   Everybody who knew Gill saw his obvious delight in
everything he did. He had a good many interests
besides astronomy, and whatever he did was done with
enthusiasm. This applied from Astronomy, which he did
surpassingly well, down to golf, from which he derived as
much pleasure as exercise, but at which he did not excel.
   The visitors to De Vere Gardens soon learnt what the
Cape had known for twenty-seven years, that this devoted
couple radiated happiness. Some one once said that Sir
David Gill must have learnt the discovery made by
Buddha Gautama, that perfect happiness comes from
perfect selflessness.    It is perhaps more true to say that
                     —
he never learnt it that it was born with him to know
that he would be much happier in doing something to
make somebody else happy than in seeing his own body
lolling in ease, or striving to get the better of his fellow
men.    He certainly loved his wife and loved astronomy
far more than he loved his own bodily pleasures.       There
is abundant evidence in support of these assertions to be
found not only during his late years, but in the earliest
accounts of his childhood; inborn selflessness, with love
of truth, and patience, were part of him.
   To the writer, this quality of his nature shines out as
the sole and sufficient cause of Sir David Gill's greatness
and happiness. Carlyle says that this is the "divine
          "
relation    which in all time unites a Great Man to other
men.    He goes on —
   Of a Great Man I will venture to assert that it is in
credible he should have been other than true. It seems

                      A GREAT MAN                        325
 to me the primary foundation of him, and of all that can
 be in him.        I
              This would say : his sincerity does not depend
 on himself; he cannot help being sincere.
    If  any other person who knew David Gill from boy
 hood to old age, and who has read the outpourings of his
 soul in his letters to numerous devoted friends — without
 ever finding a word of unkindness or a word of hate — if
 such a man can honestly say he thinks the above opinion
 wrong, then he must find some better explanation for
the very real happiness that emanated from Gill to
the hearts of those who sought his counsel or gained his
 friendship.
    It must not be supposed that astronomers alone claimed
 Sir David's time. It may surprise some of these to know
 that they did not form one quarter, perhaps not one-
 tenth, of his intimate personal friends.
    Lady Gill did not interrupt the science discussed over
 cigars in the study, but in her drawing-room one met
many of the brightest and most charming of those best
 known in London society. It was just the same as at
the Cape : if you lunched with the Gills you were sure
to enjoy yourself and likely to form new and delightful
acquaintances.
    Certainly the study is not the only room in the De Vere
Gardens flat to which people now look back with thoughts
of happy hours spent there.      Lady Gill's health was too
uncertain to enable her to entertain on an extensive
scale, but perhaps all the more on that account the meet
ings of friends there on the most delightful terms left a
flavour of satisfaction and mental enjoyment which gave
to them a very unique pleasure.
    It soon became obvious that Lady Gill could not undergo
the fatigue of enjoying much of their friends' hospitality.
Yet neither of them wished to pass out of the lives of
their many friends. So it was agreed between them that
Sir David should go about as much as possible, and tell
his wife of all the nice people he had met in their friends'

 326                LIFE IN LONDON               [Chap.  XXVI
 houses.    This plan solved the difficulty to their entire
 satisfaction.   The result is that Gill's engagement books,
 which he always carried in his pocket, now show an
 amount of dining out, and lunching out, and after
 noon calls such as the gayest young bachelor could
 hardly exceed. The Cape had been a place for making
 acquaintance with every distinguished person who ever
 went there.    Their number was great, especially during
the South African War.         Add to these his originally
wide circle of friends at home, and you find a basis for
the creation of the very widest circle of chosen friends to
welcome at their homes so charming a guest as Gill ever
 proved himself to be.
   Although Lady Gill's uncertain health prevented her
from dining out with her husband, the extraordinarily
wide extent of their intimate social friendships was re
markable.      These friends, for the most part, joined in
her interest in all pertaining to the Cape and its people.
Thus, when she saw the need of funds for the church at
Observatory Road, she was able to create and hold a
bazaar in the flat at De Vere Gardens, which was visited
by their friends, and thus a handsome donation was
provided for the wants of their old church near the
observatory.
   In the old days when Gill used to come to London from
the Cape he was a very unconventional fellow. Residing
with his friend, Mr. Kershaw, in Hyde Park Gate,
he would walk every morning to the Admiralty or to
Burlington House. Those were the days when every
gentleman in London, without exception, always wore a
top hat. It used to be a little startling, then, for any
man to meet his friend, David Gill, tearing through the
Park in country get-up and a white wideawake.              He
was always in a hurry in those days.          Occasionally in
the old days he looked in at a small scientific club with
a habitation in Savile Row. Settled now in London, he
submitted with due decorum to the necessary conven

                  SCIENTIFIC ACTIVITY                    327
 tions, and,   naturally enough, the increased weight of
 advancing age and the portly figure diminished the
 buoyant elasticity that his friends recalled; so that in
 these later days we were not so inclined     to look upon
 him as an athletic schoolboy.
    Nevertheless, to the last he was an active man, and
 always preferred to walk the whole of the way home
 from the Athenaeum or Burlington House. If the figure
 and gait, modified by the growth of flesh, led him in the
 direction of a more conventional progress, yet it was
guided by a spirit no less light, no less cordial to friends
met on the way, than in the old days when he might
      "                 "
                           at the Admiralty with dogged
be      pegging away
persistence for a heliometer.
    It must not be supposed, however, for one moment,
that his own receptions at home and those daily welcomes
at the houses of friends completed the total of Gill's
undertakings when he had finished his morning's work at
correspondence, etc.
    His sound judgment was requisitioned on the councils
of scientific societies of which he was a member, especially
the Royal Society and the Royal Astronomical Society.
In 1909-10 he was president of the latter, and afterwards
its foreign secretary. He held the presidency of other
societies.   And not only was he thus frequently chosen
on account of his knowledge, but by this time the value
of his name alone on the councils of less distinguished
societies was recognized as helping their cause.    So long
as an institution was connected in any way with the
advancement of science he considered it worthy of
support.     He did not disdain the presidency of smaller
groups like the Optical Society or the Institute of Marine
Engineers.     He did not have that aversion, common to
many, from supporting those societies in which any one,
simply by paying a fee, could be enrolled as member of a
society with a scientific title.    He held that every one
                                           "
who wished to be included in the list of scientific men
                                                           "

  328                 LIFE IN LONDON                   [Chap.  XXVI
  should be encouraged. He was a member of the Science
  Guild. In this way he even went out of his own line to
  accept the presidency of the Research Defence Society,
  whose work is mainly directed against those who oppose
  vivisection.   In Paris he had witnessed Pasteur's in
  oculations of guinea pigs, and knew the great benefits
  accruing to mankind from these and similar minor
  operations, and he was able to write an effective presi
  dential address.    But he had no actual knowledge of the
  painful operations on animals lasting for weeks, and often
  conducted only for what may be called scientific curiosity
  as to the causes of phenomena. This is one of the rare
 cases in which he was active outside of the sciences of
 which he had practical knowledge. If he had consulted
 his great friend, Lord Kelvin, it is not improbable that
 he would have refused the presidency on the grounds
 that it dealt with a science of which he was not a master.
 For Gill had an affection and esteem for the opinions of
 Lord Kelvin amounting almost to veneration; and the
 writer was much impressed when, at Pitlochrie, he hap
 pened to mention the very strong terms in which Lord
 Kelvin had spoken to him against vivisection, and Gill
 looked up with a jerk.
                              " Did he really say that ? " On
 being assured that it was so he seemed to be conscious
 for the first time that on this point differences of opinion
 could exist among great scientific men.1
    No adequate notion could be formed of Gill's main
 activities and interelts without some account of his
international     commitments.       Of course, he regularly
attended the meetings in Paris connected with the
astrographic chart and catalogue, and the part which
 was there assigned to him has been described by Pro
                                                     "
   1
     Lord Kelvin's   considered opinion was that        experiments
involving such torture to so large a number of sentient and
intelligent animals are not justifiable by either the object pro
posed, or the results obtained, or obtainable, by such an investi
gation as that described by Professor R         ." (Life of Lord
Kelvin, by S. P. Thompson. London, 1910, p. 1105.)

              INTERNATIONAL         LABOURS               329
 fessor  Kapteyn in an article from which quotations will
 be made    presently (pp. 332, 333). The guidance of a
 master mind had become all the more necessary from
 his failure to carry out the scheme of a central bureau
 for the measurement of the photographic plates and
 their reduction.   It is possible he may have indicated
 lines of action that were wrong or capable of improve
 ment in the paper he was instructed at the beginning, in
 1887, to draw up as a basis of discussion.    It is possible
 that the independent    action of each  observatory in the
 reduction of its own observations may have evolved
 more refined methods than he originally proposed. But
 this independent action has led necessarily to vagaries in
 methods, in the degree of accuracy sought for, in the
delay of reduction work, and in the form of publication,
whose worst effects needed even for their partial elimina
 tion a master hand for guidance. Even Gill's powers of
organization were taxed to the utmost after failure to
establish his central bureau, and the best we can hope for
is that this magnificent co-operative scientific enterprise
may soon be completed and yield results entirely in
keeping with the hopes of its original founders.
    Concerning Gill's other international commitments an
excellent, though perhaps rather technical, account is
given in the following statement by Major MacMahon,
R.E., F.R.S., his colleague and fellow-worker in some of
the matters referred to.
    Sir David Gill was unanimously elected the British
Member of the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures
in February 1907 in succession to the late Mr. Chaney,
who had been head of the Standards Department of the
Board of Trade with an Office and Standardising Labora
tory at 6 Old Palace Yard, Westminster. The Committee
of the Bureau met every two years at the Pavilion de
Breteuil near Sevres.    He attended the meetings in 1907,
1909, 191 1 and 1913, and the International Conference
on Weights and Measures in Paris also in 1907 and

330                 LIFE IN LONDON               [Chap. XXVI
    At the meeting in    1907 he was appointed Member of
 the Commission des Instruments et Travaux. As a
 member of this body he proposed the periodical com
 parison of wave-lengths of hght permitting a precise
definition with the International prototype metre.        The
meeting recommended this proposal to the Committee.
 Sir David took part in the discussions of the Commission
 and the resolutions of the Commission were adopted.
 He at the same time took part in the discussion raised
by Dr. Stratton, who represented the United States of
America, to modify the Convention du Metre so as
                                                     "
to permit the establishment of a permanent             Comite
         "
Annex       to deal with questions relative to units and
measurements of light, heat and electricity.        Sir David
expressed    the opinion  that the  International  Committee
should exercise great care and go slowly, and enlarge the
scope of operations little by little.
   Following the meeting of the Committee the Sextennial
Conference was held in Paris, and to this Major P. A.
MacMahon, the Deputy Warden of the Standards of the
Board of Trade, was the British Delegate and Sir David
Gill attended ex-officio as the British member of the
International Committee. The Conference was welcomed
at the French Foreign Office by M. Pichon in an interest
ing address and the business of the conference was mainly
formal, the most important business being the recom
mendation that there should be an International metric
carat of 200 m.g. for weighing diamonds and other
precious stones.    All the Governments which were repre
sented on the Bureau were to be asked to legalize such a
denomination.     For the rest the proceedings were marked
by much entertainment and hospitality.          At all these
gatherings Sir David Gill was in his element, particularly
when ladies were present. His great personality and charm
of manner were much in evidence at a banquet given to
the Conference by the late Professor Becquerel. The
proceedings were unfortunately arrested by the sudden
death of Professor Loewe, the Director of the Paris
Observatory.     Sir David Gill was one of those who repre
sented  the  Royal Society and also the Royal Astronomical
Society at the funeral.
   At the meeting of the Committee in 1909 Dr. Benoit,
the Director of the Bureau at Breteuil, called attention
to the services rendered by Sir David Gill to the Metric

                 PARIS CONFERENCES                         331
system in counselling the Indian Geodetic Service to
express the measure of the Indian base in metres.           Sir
David communicated the results obtained at the National
Physical Laboratory, Teddington, with a piece of trans
parent quartz.     It was found that at a temperature of
4000 C. the change of length produced was less than
2,000,000*
   The Committee asked for information as to the manu
                 "
facture of this    quartz fondu," and for samples so that
experiments might be made at the Bureau to test the
suitability of the substance for constructing a copy of
the metre.    Sir David also raised at some length the
question of the metre being defined as the length of one
kind of metal at o° C, whereas in practice other metals
are used at other temperatures.        This meeting was suc
ceeded by a meeting of the Astrographic Congress, Sir
David being present.         A banquet was given at the
Observatory— plays      were  performed afterwards by actors
and actresses from the Théatre Francais and later on
there was a dance.      Sir D. Gill was in the best of spirits,
made speech
       a        in  French at the banquet, and later danced
nearly every dance.
   At the meeting of 191 1 there was a discussion regard
     "                "
ing quartz fondu        as a material for standards of length,
and it was stated that it had been found impossible to
engrave the defining lines on the material satisfactorily.
Sir David read a paper by Mr. G. W. C. Kaye of the
National Physical Laboratory on the construction of a
metre of transparent quartz. The Sub-Committee on his
 proposition suggested to the Committee that the quartz
metre destined for the Indian Weights and Measures
Service should be verified at the Bureau, and in case of
the comparison being found satisfactory, that one should
be procured for the International Bureau.           This was
 adopted by the Committee. At a later session he sug
gested that the Committee should add to their interests
 the subject of the thermodynamic scale of absolute tem
 perature. He was appointed Member of the Sub-Com
mittee to consider whether the Convention du Metre
should be modified so as to treat all questions of unit
standards and physical constants. He reported to the
 Board of Trade that certain scientific matters which
came before the Committee for discussion included the
finality of the determination of the weight of a cubic

 332                 LIFE IN LONDON               [Chap. XXVI
 centimetre of water and the peculiar value of tantalum
 as a material for the construction of standards of
 mass.
    As regards the use of tantalum for metrological pur
 poses its extreme hardness, its high specific gravity and
 its absolute resistance to attacks by nitric, hydrochloric
 or sulphuric acid apparently render it superior to platinum
 or iridio-platinum as a material for standards of mass.
 Its cost in the rough is much less than that of platinum,
 and although its high point of fusion and its great hard
 ness render it difficult to work, it can be produced in the
 form of weights far cheaper than platinum.
    When in Paris Sir David Gill invariably stayed at the
 Hotel St. James and Albany, and the last time he was
 there, in October 1913, he spent a strenuous day at a
 flying ground near Paris.    He was very popular with all
 his colleagues of the Bureau and of the Conferences, who
 without exception were his warm personal friends.
    Concerning the Astrographic Congresses in Paris, Pro
fessor Kapteyn has given us his intimate observations of
Gill's activities in the Astrographic Journal, 1914.
    Outsiders who have seen him at work at these con
gresses may have been under the impression that it was
the geniality of his person, his infectious enthusiasm, and
strong self-reliance which carried the day. But those
who had followed matters closely would know how care
 fully he had studied every detail of the matter to be
discussed, how long beforehand he had extensively corre
sponded with the most capable and most interested per
sons, and how he brought many of them together a few
days before the date of the congress, not only to arrange
the programme for the proceedings, but also to discuss
informally all the main points. During the whole of the
congress, too, he would bring the ablest men together for
these informal discussions.   In these Gill would always play
a prominent part ; sometimes his impetuosity would make
it far from easy for those opposed to his views to explain
their standpoint.     It might be some time before Gill
would really give attention to what they had to say, but
that moment having come, they could wish for no better
listener, and if they succeeded in showing that their
point of view was more nearly correct, no man would be

               *A CERTAIN INFLUENCE'                    333
quicker to recognize his error than Gill. No man could
be long with him without feeling that here was a man to
whom the real interest of science was paramount, a man
who was always ready to sacrifice any pet plan of his
own to the real interest of astronomy.         A favourite
expression of his, in giving up his opinion, would be :
" The man who never made a mistake never made
                                                       any
thing."    I  cannot  help thinking    that  such  personal
qualities — his indomitable energy, his broad-mindedness,
love of his work, kindness — his manliness in the best
sense of the word ; in short, the charm of his strong per
sonality, had almost as much to do with his achievements
as his qualities as a scientist.
   There was no happier man in London during these
days than Sir David Gill, and few were the source of
so much happiness to others. The constant worries he
had experienced at the Cape from attempts to interfere
with his work no longer existed. He had the joy of feel
ing that now, in personal contact with the worlds of
London and Paris, he had a certain influence which he
 could use in advancing astronomy.       This he invariably
exercised in favour of honest, well-directed, and system
atically discussed observation. He did not encourage
the brilliant speculator who was wanting in patient
effort, or who would ask him to give up well-tried methods
of accuracy in favour of some half-digested notions about
vague possibilities in other directions.
   Of course, this man had his troubles. Who has not ?
In 1907 Agnes Clerke died; in 1909 Professor Simon
Newcomb and Bryan Cookson;            in 1910 Sir William
Huggins; in 1912 Admiral Richards and Sir George
Darwin; in 1913 Lord Crawford; and the illnesses of
Elkin and of Hale affected him almost as much. The
one constantly recurring grief arose when his dear wife
was ill.    He suffered deeply, and when he had to be
away from her every one could see that his constant
thought was with her. Apart from this, few worldly
matters upsetting to most people affected his equanimity

334                  LIFE IN LONDON              [Chap.  XXVI
or made him sorry for himself, or wish others to be sorry
for him.
    There were very, very few of his most intimate friends
who knew anything of the pecuniary loss he suffered
through having invested money at the Cape under the
very best advice he could get there.      Few know that he
had to go to work again to make up this loss. Dr. Elkin
was always on the most intimate terms with the Gills,
and in a letter to him, in 1910, Gill mentions this casually
and as a matter of no consequence.
                            To Elkin
                    34 Df. Vere Gardens, Kensington,
                                             April  17, 1910.
    My dear old Friend, — I wonder what you can think
          ******
of me, for my long silence is a disgrace to friendship.
    The fact is that I have had great anxiety and immense
amount of work. . . . My worry and anxiety has been
about my wife. She fell ill about the middle of June
 last.
    Our money matters at the Cape have gone from bad to
 worse.   The investments (1st mortgages on houses) which
 used to bring me £600 a year, brought me £180 last year —
 with repairs and taxes to pay, and little or no rent —and
 no one will buy the houses at any price.
    So I have had to go to work again.        I have written
 some articles, given a few lectures, but have been chiefly
 busy (so far as money-making is concerned) in advising
 Governments about instruments, etc.
    The Transvaal Gov' has employed me in connection
 with the supervision of the plans and business arrange
 ments of the Johannesburg Observatory — a matter that
 has cost me an immense lot of labour — but work that         I
 love — and I make it my business, inter alia, to do these
 things.
     The Gov* of India has employed me to design their
 new Laboratory at Dehra Dun for standards of measure,
  and the comparators for 4 metre bars, Jaderin wires, etc.
  I have also been inspecting Geodetic Instruments for the
  Govt* of Australia and Siam.

           ******
                  MARKINGS ON MARS                            335
   But you have always been in our thoughts, and         I  have
           ******
always had it in mind to write to you.
   We are both terribly sorry to hear that you have been
obliged by ill health to retire.
   Percival Lowell is over here just now. He held forth
one afternoon at the R.A.S.       Showed us photographs of
Mars on the screen, and pointed out Canals — which none
of us could see. The same evening he gave a lecture at
the Royal Institution — and here again     I failed to see any
Canals, but his planetary photographs were most beautiful.
   But I have been studying some of his slides since at
leisure, directly, and  I am bound to say that I have seen
a few markings which are quite unmistakable — such as
Schiaparelli and Lowell have described, tho', of course,
not in the profuse abundance mentioned and described
by them.
   I must say that I can no longer doubt that there are
markings on Mars of the kind, but I cannot agree with
the interpretation that Lowell puts upon them.
   But there is no question that, at Flagstaff, Lowell
must have a steadiness of definition which is extra
ordinarily great — and his work is of a very high order.
   Now, my dear old chap — forgive me — Believe me, you
have no truer friends than my wife and I. We both join
in love to you and your dear little wife, and in the hope
that you will long be spared to enjoy yr otium cum
dignitate et honore, — Yr true old friend,     David Gill.
   He undertook the children's Christmas lectures at the
                                                   " for
 Royal Institution (as he writes to Kapteyn)               filthy
lucre," and gave other popular lectures, for which he had
no great aptitude as he did not know how to slur over
difficulties after the manner of popular lecturers ; and he
started a fairly profitable business as a consulting astro
nomical engineer.     This part of the work he thoroughly
enjoyed.     But scarcely one of his friends knew that he
was following the noble example of Charles Dickens or
Mark Twain under similar conditions. Of course, he was
not seriously crippled by such an affair, but while careful

336                LIFE IN LONDON             [Chap. XXVI
in his expenditure, he was one of those free-handed men
who are always ready with a bank-note when a real case
of distress comes before them. His correspondence shows
some cases where he was imposed upon.
   Sir David Gill derived much exercise and pleasure from
golf. Mr. Alexander Davidson, his old student friend at
Aberdeen, who had also visited him at the Cape in 1898,
induced him to join the Royal Wimbledon Golf Club and
the Wimbledon Curling Club, and writes —
   Though an indifferent exponent of either game, no
man could throw himself more completely and more
whole-heartedfy into the spirit of play than did our
many-sided astronomer.      I remember one occasion when
we were curling at Wimbledon in the winter of 1906-7
which he was fond, of talking over with great glee. A
scratch match at curling was got up in the afternoon —
England v. Scotland. Gill and I were among the Scotch,
and notwithstanding the enthusiasm of my friend we got
into a very despondent condition as the game progressed,
being four points down when we had to play the last end.
As luck (and perhaps careful play) would have it, we
unexpectedly in that end got five stones in and won the
match. Then Gill's exuberance fairly boiled over, and
cheering vociferously his example so infected the rest of
our team that we fell to shaking hands and drinking
healths all round, and had we been Frenchmen instead of
Scotsmen I have no doubt we should have embraced each
other in the way that foreigners do.
   Gill was no adept at any games like golf or billiards,
 which require constant practice. Yet he was ever willing
to take a hand and to do his best.        He even entered
 a billiard handicap at the Athenaeum Club.       On that
 occasion his opponent, settled by lot, was a magnificent
 player, the best in the club at that time. By his handi
 cap Gill began the game a long way ahead of his opponent.
 He pegged away in the hopeless task, every little score,
 or miss, on his part being generally followed by a fine
 break on the part of his opponent, and the distance

                           GAMES                            337
between them rapidly diminished.        At last he exclaimed
                          "
in despair to a friend,     I feel just like a rabbit with a
weasel after me."
   The following letters to Elkin exhibit some of Gill's
activities from 1908 to 1910.
                      34 De Vere Mansions, Kensington,
                                           December 15, 1908.
   My     dear Elkin, — The Comptes Rendus has just
arrived, and I rejoice — we both rejoice — to see that the
French Academy of Sciences has awarded the Lalande
Medal to you and Chase.       We send our most loving and
          ******
sincere congratulations.
   They have just created a new Chair — Astrophysics —
at Cambridge, and appointed Newall to fill it. That also
has given us great joy.
   I am at present very busy about Astrographic Congress
matters — for the reunion at Paris, April 19-26. We
hope you are both coming.
   Write soon. With our united love. — Ever thine,
                                               David   Gill.
                     34  De Vere Gardens, Kensington,
           ******
                                             1909, March  14.
   My dear Elkin, — Yr letter of the 26th Feb. duly
reached us with its burden of sad news. . . .
   We too have had just a similar sorrow.
   We go on the 22nd inst. to Paris. . . .
   On the 31st we go to Porto Fino — near Genoa — to
spend a fortnight with Lady Carnarvon at her beautiful
           ******
place there, returning Apr. 17 to Paris for the Astro-
photographic Meeting.
   On Friday last I took my seat as Pres. of the R.A.S. . . .
   We are not coming to Winnipeg.
   But we have made up our minds — my wife and I —to
come across for the Solar Union meeting in 1910. . . .
   I fear very much I shall not be able to see dear old
 Newcomb when I come.        He wrote me such a programme
and was to go about with me. But a day or two ago I
     z

338                 LIFE IN LONDON               [Chap.  XXVI
had a letter from his daughter, Mrs. McGee, from Paris
to say the operation he recently underwent disclosed a
malignant tumour, all of which could not be removed.
One knows too well what that means.            Apparently he
does not know, nor do his American friends know, how
serious is his case, for Pickering wrote me that Newcomb
had a benignant tumour, and was planning long journeys.
So apparently his American friends do not know.           Thus
please keep what I tell you as confidential lest the matter
          ******
should get to his ears.
    Mrs. McGee we hope to see in Paris before she leaves
it on the 25th or 26th inst. to sail from this Country on
           "
the 31st,    unless she is cabled sooner."
   Bella will write to your wife soon.      Our love to you
both. — Ever thine,                           David    Gill.
                       34 De Vere Gardens, Kensington,
                                           December 12, 1910.
   My dear Elkin, — . . . I have had a great deal of
work in connection with the design of the Johannesburg
telescope 26 in. aperture and with the designs for a 24 in.
aperture equatoreal for Ristenpart at Santiago, including
rising floor and dome.       I have exactly similar work,
          ******
namely a refractor of 35 ft. focus (aperture whether 24 or
28 in. not yet decided) with a rising floor and dome for
Nicolaieff, and also a reflector of one metre aperture
equatoreally mounted for the Crimea [Semeis].
   I have seen  a good deal of Hale since he came over. . . .
He has brought me the working plans of the 100 in.
Reflector.   ...  I am to report any suggestions in regard
to them to Mount Wilson. . . . — Ever thine,
                                              David   Gill.

                     CHAPTER XXVII
       LAST DAYS AFTER RETIREMENT (1907-1914)
Seventieth birthday — Monumental book on Cape Observatory —
                       Illness and death.
Having now shown in what direction his occupations
lay during the years of his retirement in London, it remains
to tell about Gill's manner of spending his holidays in
the summer, full of the enjoyment of country life.
   The year after his arrival in London, i. e. in 1907, he
was president of the British Association at Leicester.
The preparation of his address naturally occupied his
thoughts a great deal. The meeting was a great success,
and no one enjoyed it more than Sir David and Lady
Gill.
         ******
              Fisher's Hotel, Pitlochrie,   September 21, 1907.
   My dear Elkin, — We are         so glad to have your letter
from Zermatt, and to hear that on the whole you are
better. High bracing air is the thing for you I am sure.
   We had a very pleasant meeting at Leicester —and,
so far as I know, not a hitch or unpleasantness of any
kind.
   The mighty atom figured largely in the discussions of
Section A, Kelvin approaching the static, Oliver Lodge
the dynamical condition.         Much talk, little reality —so
far as a definite conclusion is concerned.
   There were many interesting papers — many of which
I could not hear as the President is expected to visit all
the sections.
   The local arrangements were excellent, and hospitality
unbounded.
   We came from Leicester to Aboyne on Deeside, which
                                339

340                     LAST DAYS                [Chap. XXVII
I   made a centre, for grouse-shooting — and as Sir Fred.
                   I     "a
 Richards put it had         Deesidedly engrousing time," a
vile but accurate description.    Then I visited my brother
near Rothes on Speyside and then we came on here a
few days ago. I have again been shooting here.             We
intended to go from this to stay with Lord and Lady
Kelvin till October — but just as we were starting poor
Lady Kelvin had a stroke of paralysis. She has recovered
speech and clear thought but her left arm remains without
power of motion.       We are terribly distressed, for they
are both old and dear friends and he is in so many things
entirely dependent on her.
    We remain here till the 26th when Bella goes to London
and I go to Sir Andrew Noble's place at the head of Loch
Fyne — to try to shoot one of his stags.
    On the 1st Aug. [Oct.] I go to Glasgow and deliver a
lecture there on October 2, returning to London the
following day.
    On Oct. 7 I go to Paris for the meeting of the Inter
national Committee of Weights and Measures and remain
there till Oct. 23. A day or two in London and then
we go to Pixton Park in Devonshire for 10 days.           I to
shoot pheasants.     Shall you be in Paris between Oct. 7
and 23 ? if so I fancy that is our only way to meet.
    From Nov. 9 to 19 I am giving lectures in Glasgow,
Edinburgh and Dundee and then return to London and
to work.
    Both of us have greatly enjoyed our holiday and are
wondrous well.
    Yes — let us keep henceforth more in touch. God bless
you — our love to you both. Ever thine, David Gill.
                        To Dr. Elkin
                       34 De Vere Gardens, Kensington,
                                           1908, January 20.
    My dear Elkin, — Don't think ill of me in that I have
 been long in answering yr letter of the 9th Dec1.
    When it came I was just in the thick of starting prepara
 tion of a series of 6 Christmas lectures to be delivered at
 the Royal Institution. They involved an enormous lot
of work— far more than I anticipated — for the audience
is a very difficult one to please and expects much — not
 much in the way of deep science — but of pap-food, —
peptonized with a continuous flow of experiments,

1907-14]                    HOLIDAYS                            341
                   slides — and all
                                       "
diagrams and                              adapted to a juvenile
audience." The         juvenile audience ranged from 5 to
93   years   of age  and   they were all pleased.      So you see
I must have had a lot       of  work.    Indeed,  I had   to put all
my correspondence aside and work at the R.I. laboratory
hard for a month or more.              One newspaper reporter
declared that after lecture V [on prisms and spectra] , a
little girl in a red hat was overheard to ask her mother,
"                                                 "
   Why did they put the spectre in prison ! ! Two little
girls who wore red hats, and whom I knew, refused to go
to the next lecture in red hats, and insisted on wearing
green ones.
    But this is all beside the mark —only to explain my
silence.
    Now,   dear old man, don't worry about this idiotic
business of Hastings' criticism of yr parallax work. . . .
    I only wish that Hastings had read and printed his
paper, it would have been such fun to demolish him. I
always enjoy any criticism of the kind, for example,
Rambaut on the parallax of a Centauri.                You should
try to feel the same way, my      dear   old man —  for if anybody
knows about the Heliometer and parallax work you do.
           *        *         *        *        *          *
    Kapteyn has just been over with us on a short visit
and to discuss a lot of things with me. He is
                                                          " as
                                                               busy
           ******
                                     "
as the Devil in a gale of wind         as old Sir Fred. Richards
says. (You must remember Sir Fred.                   He was our
Admiral at the Cape when we first came, and we see him
every few days now.)
    Bella joins me in warm love to yr dear wife and yourself.
               Ever thine,                         David Gill.
    In 1908 he received the Gold Medal of the Royal
Astronomical Society (for the second time). His holiday
took the Gills first on a visit to Sir Frederick Richards
at Horton Court from July 2 to 22. They then went,
accompanied by Sir Frederick, to Strathpeffer, July 24 to
August 19. His earlier grouse plans were interfered with
by the illness of his wife. Then they went to Aboyne.
He had two days' grouse shooting with his cousin, Colonel
Ogston, at Kildrummy Castle, Strath Don. Then at

 342                    LAST DAYS              [Chap. XXVII
 Aboyne till he had to go to Dublin, staying at Lord
 Iveagh's, to resign his presidency of the B.A. They left
 Aboyne September 10 to visit Mrs. Pickering (Lady Gill's
 cousin) at Kincardine O'Neil, and he shot there.      Then
 partridges in Buchan and a day or two in Aberdeen.
 September 25 saw him off to Glasgow, Inveraray, and
Ardkinglas, where he had a fine stalk. Then motored
to Loch Goyle Head, thence to Greenock, Glasgow and
London, which he reached October 3.
    On October 8 he was at Oxford for the jubilee of the
opening of the Oxford Museum. Later he presided at
the Paisley century celebration of the Philosophical
Institute, " where Coats has given them an excellent
little observatory."
    In 1909 the Gills went to Paris for the Weights and
Measures, then visited the Dowager Countess of Carnarvon
for a fortnight at her beautiful place at Porto Fino near
Genoa, returning to Paris April 17 for the Astrographic
Congress.     He was now president of the R.A.S. Lady
Gill's sister Bessie, whose health for many years was an
anxiety, died on February 11. They buried her in the
family ground at Foveran.        In the summer they were
chiefly on Deeside, and returned to London for the
National Geodetic Congress beginning September 21,
and continuing in Cambridge September 27-30.
   His dear friend, Simon Newcomb, died this year in July.
   In 1910 Lady Gill's health broke down and she was
under special treatment by Dr. Bruce and his father in
Edinburgh.
   The serious illness of his wife in 1910 was a great grief
to him, and also put an end to hopes which had been on
the point of fructifying for some years. In fact, before
the death of his friend Newcomb he had been attempting
year after year to visit the observatories of the United
States and to meet his friends there. He had at last
decided to do so in this year 1910, when he could meet
all the American astronomers at the great Solar Union

1907-14]       WALES AND SCOTLAND                           343
Meeting. The disappointment, when it now became
impossible to carry out this plan, was very great indeed.
   In this year Sir William Christie retired from Green
wich Observatory, and Mr. Dyson (now Sir Frank) was
appointed Astronomer Royal. No one appreciated the
service rendered to accurate astronomy by this appoint
ment more than Sir David Gill.
   In 1911 the Gills left London on July 14 for Llandrindod
for the waters. Then to Aboyne and Pitlochrie, three
weeks at each, with much shooting. Then he spent three
days with Sir Charles Parsons, shooting his grouse.       Lady
Gill was then to visit Lady Kelvin while Sir David stalked
deer at Ardkinglas, but Lady Kelvin's illness interfered.
   In 1912 they did much the same. After Llandrindod,
at the end of July, they settled at Pitlochrie as a head
centre from which he could go shooting.           Fred Powell,
his second nephew, was home on leave from India. Gill
left him with his wife at Pitlochrie while he shot grouse
in Northumberland with Sir C. Parsons, and he also shot
over moors in Perthshire, etc. Then they had a week
in Aberdeenshire and Gill joined Sir Andrew Noble on
Loch Fyne ; but was recalled from there to London
to attend the funeral of his dear old friend Admiral Sir
Frederick Richards.       At the close of this year he also
lost his very dear friend, Sir George Darwin.
                       To Lady Noble
                        34 De Vere Gardens, Kensington,
                                          1 91 2, September 4.
   Dear Lady Noble, — I arrived here at 11.45 last night
— train 35 minutes late —and found my wife decidedly
better. I have just returned from Sir Fred. Richards'
funeral. You will doubtless find in the newspapers a
list of those present.
   The day was beautiful, so were the surroundings I know
so well — and the grand old man was laid to rest in the
place he loved, surrounded by old and loving friends.

344                     LAST DAYS                [Chap. XXVII
   My wife attended the memorial service at Fulham
where about 200 people were present.
   My mind is so full of my dear old friend that I can
hardly thank you all properly for all the kindness
and great enjoyment I had in my too short visit to
Ardkinglas.
          ******
   You were all so kind to me, the weather was so beautiful
and the glory and beauty of everything so supreme, that
nothing was left to desire — and I did enjoy my sport so
thoroughly.
   As  I write I have received a terrible blow — a letter from
                                                        " After
Lady Darwin has this moment arrived — she says,
hoping and hoping that George would recover without
an operation, finally he had Sir George Bradford down
to consult. He advised an operation.         It was done and
found not to be gallstones but a growth on the pancreas.
He had a night of discomfort and pain but his pulse is
good and the doctor thinks he is getting over the shock
of the operation very well. The end will come in a few
weeks, but without pain."
   I cannot quote the rest of the letter — it is the cry of a
loving woman after a perfectly happy married life looking
forward to the coming loss — God comfort her.
   This is a sad letter to send you — I cannot help it.
George Darwin is very dear to me —and his death will be
a sad blow to British Science and to many a one who
loved and honoured him.         I can only hope that the
                         —
doctors may be wrong though I fear the worst.
   My wife desires to join with me in kindest remem
brances to you all, and in hearty thanks for all your
kindness to me. She sends her love to you and Miss
Noble. — Yours most sincerely,                 David Gill.
   The following note is at the end of a letter to Sir Howard
Grubb, dated October 12, 1912 —
   P.S. I have received a letter informing me that at
the last annual meeting of the Astronomical and Astro-
physical Society of America resolutions were passed to
modify the constitution by which it was resolved to make
it possible to elect one Honorary Member at the Annual
Meeting — the Hon. Member not to be an American.

  1907-14]              MORE HONOURS                         345
     To elect the first Member a ballot was taken, each
  member writing down on a separate piece of paper the
  man he thought most worthy to be 1st Hon. Member of
  the Society. Three fourths of the members, I am told
  by Pickering, wrote my name — and recommended it to
 the Council which unanimously elected me. I feel it
  a great distinction, but I think they could have found a
  more worthy man.                                     D. G.
     This note will help the reader with a knowledge of
  the man's character to appreciate the spirit in which he
 received all such distinctions.        On nearly every such
 occasion, if he happens to be writing to an intimate
 friend, he analyses the value of the testimony, often
 discounting the personal friendship which led to it,
 considers the claims of others, and with no mock modesty
 rejoices at the evidence of appreciation shown to his
 labours.
       To M. Baillaud at the Paris Observatory
                                        London, April 5, 1913.
    My dear Baillaud,         ...  I have received with much
 pleasure   and gratification  from  M. Cambon the insignia of
 Commandeur de la Légion d'Honneur which I owe, I am
sure, to your friendly influence, and I am very grateful
indeed to you for the good opinion of me you must have
entertained before submitting my name for such a high
distinction.    Monsieur Cambon also showed me a letter
from    Sir  Edward     Grey, conveying the consent of His
Majesty the King that I might accept and wear this.
This is a privilege that is accorded on very few occasions
to British subjects in the matter of foreign orders, and I
am deeply indebted to Monsieur Cambon for the personal
interest which he has taken in this matter.
    With kindest remembrances to Madame Baillaud and
yourself in which my wife desires to join, and with
warmest thanks for your friendly offices,
    Believe me, Always yours most sincerely,
                                               David Gill.
    The German Order Pour le merile had also been con-

346                     LAST DAYS              [Chap. XXVII
ferred upon Gill, the highest honour in the power of that
country to bestow. It may be recalled that, when this
honour was bestowed upon Auwers, Gill, in writing to
                               "I
Mr. Knobel (p. 210), said,         regard it as the highest
distinction open to a literary or scientific man." On
the evening when he received the news that this order
was awarded to him he muttered, more to his pipe than
              " Well ! I am an overrated man ! "
to his wife,                                            This
was his honest conviction, Lady Gill assures us.
   Sir David Gill's seventieth and last birthday was
celebrated at De Vere Gardens on June 12, 1913, with
great happiness to all concerned. Numerous letters
and telegrams conveyed the hopes of his wide circle of
friends that he would be spared for a great many years.
These cannot be reproduced. A few letters only are
here inserted to show the character of many.
         From Professor Kapteyn, Groningen
    My dear   Gill, — This  day must be a memorable day
to all astronomers. But to no one so much as to me
and if I wish that you may be spared long to enjoy much
happiness and joy, I say nothing but what I have prayed
for since the time I first knew you.
    This day let me thank you for all that you have been
in my life.
    The time of our first correspondence was for me a time
of great discouragement. With an ardent desire to make
 something of my life I found that I had been pretty much
 wasting some of my best years.      This has been changed
 from the moment you entered my life. — I know that I
 have helped you somewhat in your work ; but you have
 helped me far more and if now, not so far from the end
 of my career (I am sorry to say), I feel that I have been
 of some use to our beloved science, I owe this to you.
 You have given me occasion, help, encouragement and
 more than all that — friendship.   It is not only the astro
 nomer that you have helped on, but the man. I think
 I picked up something of your great " Lebensweisheit,"
 of your capacity of making life a joy to yourself and to

1913]            SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY                      347
others. — My heart is full of gratitude this day. I have
admired and loved you since first we met, no, the first
at least, much longer.
   Let me conclude with the selfish wish that you let me
keep a good place in your affection for the time that we
may still have to dwell on this planet and let me add my
very best wishes for the health of your beloved wife.
Could but wishes be of any avail, how soon she would be
restored. — Ever thine,                   J. C. Kapteyn.
          Gill  to Professor and Mrs. Kapteyn
                                              1913. June 13-
   My dear Kapteyn and your dear Wife, — I received
yesterday not only your telegram but those touching
and beautiful letters from you both.
    If all you say is true —and I am sure you think and
believe it so — the best day's work for astronomy that I
ever did was to bring you into my astronomical work—
or rather to have the good fortune to accept the aid
you offered. — What that has meant for astronomy all
astronomers know — and what I feel about it, and all the
love and honour I have for you only my wife knows.
    Long may you live to adorn astronomy — and if you
can be sure of anything in this wicked world — you can
 be sure of my love and friendship as long as I live.
      To Mr. John Power       (at the Cape Observatory)
                                      London, 1913, June 12.
    My dear Power, — I am writing on behalf of my wife
 to thank you for your kind letter of the 17th May —and
 on my own behalf to thank you for the kind message for
 me which it contains from you and yours, and which has
 just been delivered to me.
    I have also received the very welcome and kindly cable
 from the staff of the observatory which reached me last
 night.    All this has touched me deeply.
    I am sending a general reply to Dr. Halm which I am
 asking him to pass round to the staff.
    This evening Dyson, Hills, Hough, Newall, Knobel,
 Chapman (Chief Ass* Greenwich) and Prof. E. C. Pickering
 are dining with me to celebrate my birthday, and tele
 grams are coming in, including a most touching one from
 Kapteyn.

  348                      LAST DAYS               [Chap.  XXVII
     He and Mrs. K. will be here on the 16th and 17th and
  on the latter day I have a gathering of astronomers to
  meet him.     On the 18th he sails for Mount Wilson.
     Thank God, my good friend, I am feeling a younger
  man than when I last saw you nearly 7 years ago — and
  I am just as full of love and interest in the old Observatory
 as ever I was. I would write you more but I have many
 letters to write and little time in which to write them.
     But I can never forget your good work and your
 devotion to the Observatory — and the true friendship
 you have shown to me.
     I am delighted to get from Mr. Hough the same story
 of your devotion and zeal.      I wish I could send you good
 news of my wife's health — she has been far from well of
 late — but she joins me in kindest remembrance and love
 to you and yours. — Ever thine,                 David Gill.
             To the Cape Observatory Staff
                                       London, June   13, 1913.
     My dear Friends, — I must write you all a few words
 of thanks for the cable message of heartiest greetings.
 It is indeed good to be so kindly remembered by those
 who worked with me so happily and so cordially for so
 many years.
    No one knows better than myself how much I owe to
 you all — for without your earnest and faithful co-operation
 the Cape Obs* could never have reached the position which
 it now takes amongst the great observatories of the world.
    At three score years and ten a man is apt to look back
 upon his past life and review it in his mind's eye.            In
doing so I am bound to say, with thankfulness, that in
my life the joys have far outnumbered the sorrows, and
that the days I spent amongst you at the Cape were
amongst the happiest of a happy life, thanks to the
common bond of friendly good will that it was my good
fortune at all times to receive at your hands.
    One of the greatest joys of my old age is to watch the
progress of the Cape Obs* and to find that my old fellow
workers are still as keen as ever and that the dear old
Obs* is still to the front and going on to higher and better
things.
    I write of my old age as my years entitle me to do —
but in truth I feel a younger man than I did when I left

 i9i3]            SEVENTIETH BIRTHDAY                              349
 you nearly 7 years ago — and I W5 fain hope I may yet be
 spared for a reasonable number of years to watch the
 progress of the Obs* and rejoice, as I do now, in its
 achievements.
     It has been a very great joy to me to see Mr. Hough and
 to get news at first hand of all that is going on. In his
 capable hands and with the fine equipment of the Obs*
 the possibilities of the future are very great.          I earnestly
 ask you all to continue to him the same good will and the
 same cordial co-operation which I always experienced
 at yr hands, and which you still show to him.
     I know he has the best interests of the ObsT and of
 yrselves individually at heart.
     It is a great thing in life to have a good and worthy
 object always in view — and it is yr duty and privilege
 to have such an object, viz., the progress of the great
 scientific institution with which you are connected.
    I know yr goodwill and I think our old friendship
 permits me now to say such things to you — not by way
 of reproof, for none is needed, but just to stimulate you
 all as yr kind thought of my birthday has helped and
 stimulated me.
    My wife is no less grateful than myself for yr kindly
 message, and she desires me to add her thanks and
 kindliest remembrances.
    I wish that I could give you a better account of her
 health, but I am sorry to say that for the past 2 or 3
 months she has been suffering more than usual from the
 old continuous headaches which prevent her from taking
part in social life. But these drawbacks do not interfere
with her loving remembrance of all her old friends on
the observatory hill, and she joins me in our grateful
thanks for yr kind thoughts of us. — Believe me, one and
all of you, Yrs most sincerely,                     David Gill.
                          To Dr. Elkin
                          34 De Vere Gardens, Kensington,
                                                             July 6.
                           ...
                                                       1913.
    My dear Elkin,              I have had a lot of work in
connection with optical glass — am president of a Com
mittee appointed by the National Physical Laboratory 1 —
      [The success of Sir David Gill's efforts are told in the follow
   1
ing extract from the Royal Society Report of Council, 1915, p. 9      :

350                         LAST DAYS                   [Chap. XXVII
and Messrs. Chance of Birmingham are making great
efforts —so that I think our troubles will ere long be
over. But, as matters stand, we have not got a single
disc for any of these telescopes [Johannesburg, Santiago,
Nicolaieff , Semeis] except the disc for the 40-inch reflector.
   The comparator for 24 metre tapes is off to India.
The 4 metre comparator has been a long time under trial
and used for determination of temperature coefficients,
and I finally passed it as perfect a few days ago.
   On June 12 I celebrated my 70th birthday — and
Pickering, Dyson, Hough, Newall, Chapman (now Chief
Assist. at Greenwich), Hills and Knobel dined here. On
            ******
June 16 Kapteyn and his wife came to London on their
way to Mount Wilson, and the following afternoon we had
an astronomical convention at my house with most of
the above, and Eddington, Rambaut and Schleisinger
added.
   Ever thine,                                       David     Gill.
    Lady Gill writes —
    On that 70th and last earthly birthday after David's
guests had left (and he had gone to the kitchen to shake
hands with the cook — now my valued maid) he burst
into my room like a schoolboy with a face of radiant joy,
exclaiming, "The happiest birthday of a happy life, my
dear."
    What a boy he always was             !  Truly, those whom the
gods love die young.
    In  1913    Sir David gave his hearty support to the new
 observatory started by Sir Norman Lockyer, with valu
 able assistance from Mr. Frank McClean's sons,1 at
 " The work of Sir D. Gill's Committee, appointed in                 to
                                                                1912
 consider   the question of a Research into the Manufacture of
 Optical   Glass, is now bearing fruit.    The Treasury, on the motion
 of the Board of Trade, have promised grants of £1,500, £1,500
 and £1,250 in this and the next two years; much of the neces
 sary plant is at the [National Physical] Laboratory, and the
expenments have commenced.              The Laboratory has been in
 communication with the Institute of Chemistry with reference
 to this work."]
   1
      William McClean acted as Hon. Sec. on Sir Norman's com
 mittee, and his brother Frank presented his father's telescope
 and other instruments.

i9i3]           MAHARAJA OF JHALAWAR                       351
Sidmouth and, as Chairman of the Appeal Committee,
obtained invaluable financial and scientific assistance for
that observatory. He also assisted Sir Norman in the lay
out and instrumental equipment of the observatory. The
success of these efforts was ensured by the general sup
port of astronomers, and by none more than M. Deslandres
of Paris.
                 From Sir    J. Norman Lockyer
             Salcombe   Regis, Sidmouth,   November 22, 1912.
   My dear Gill, — It is very good of you taking all this
trouble.     You and Deslandres will end by making me
conceited   !
   This subject was matter for a very long correspondence
about the removal of the Solar Physics Observatory in
the course of which Gill wrote on December 10, 191 1 —
                 To Sir   J.  Norman Lockyer
   I feel that you and     your work have been treated most
unfairly — that the conclusion of the Committee is        con
trary to such evidence as has been collected — for I
entirely concur in Glazebrooke's view of it. Evidence
on a much broader basis and of a very much more con
clusive character was required before the organization
which you founded and have carried on so successfully
for so many years was ruthlessly upset.
   In the   course   of that letter, Gill's outlook upon con
troversies is illustrated by his suggesting a certain altera
                                         "
tion of verbiage in a certain protest, on the principle that
you will catch more flies with sugar than with vinegar."
   In 1913 Sir David Gill gave much help to the Maharaja
of Jhalawar 1 in his plans for building an observatory in
 India.
                          34 De Vere Gardens, 1913, May 23.
   My dear Maharaj,— I          am sending you, enclosed, a
 business   letter about     your proposed telescope       and
 observatory.
               1 H. H.
                       Raj Rana Sir Bhawani Singh.

 352                     LAST DAYS             [Chap. XXVII
    My wife and     I cannot sufficiently thank you for all
 your kindness to my nephew. He has written to us two
 long letters full of all his wonderful and delightful ex
 periences and of your kindness and hospitality to him.
 I fear that you have been too kind to him and that his
 normal soldier life will appear very humdrum to him after
 all the excitement and fun he had with you.
    I could not write you last week as I was away, as I told
 you I would be, on a visit to the Duke and Duchess of
 Northumberland at Albury Park —near Guildford.          Sir
Archibald Geikie was amongst the guests you know, and
 Lady Mary Meynell with her son and daughter (she is a
sister of my old chief, the late Lord Crawford).      I wish
you had been able to be present at the Great Albert Hall
meeting on the 21st, when Commander Evans gave an
 account of the Antarctic Expedition — with magnificent
lantern slides.    There was not a single vacant seat —
over 10,000 people — all in full evening dress — present.
 I have just sent the last pages of my history of the Cape
 Observatory to press. In a month or two it should be
published, when I will send you a copy.
    There is no history of the Royal Astronomical Society.
My wife's book, Six Months in Ascension, is out of print
long ago — I am trying to find a copy for you in the
second-hand book shops.        I will write you further ere
long. Meanwhile I hope to have your decision about the
telescope.    My wife desires to join with me in kindest
remembrances.      Yours most sincerely,     David Gill.
    The year 1913 found the Gills once more at Llandrindod,
and again they made their headquarters for the summer
at Pitlochrie. From this centre he was able to pay visits
as usual to his friends, when he shot grouse on their
moors. He was also within easy reach of Blair Castle
at Blair Athol where he was able to keep up his old
friendship with the Tullibardines, and was again a welcome
guest at the Duke of Athol's highland gathering.         He
also left Pitlochrie for a few days in September to attend
the British Association meeting at Birmingham.
   Here, also, he finished the index and completed his
monumental work, the History and Description of the
Cape Observatory, and was much relieved to get it off his

  i9i3]          "FINIS      CORONAT OPUS"                      353
 hands.     It  had cost him much labour during the years
 since he left the Cape.        Much of the work upon it was
 done during the last three years of his life in the present
            "         "
 writer's      Shed      at Pitlochrie, a kind of hermitage
 containing a good scientific library and other things of
 interest.
     This splendid folio volume 1 was almost the final act
 of his official life. On its last page might be written the
 words Finis coronat opus. It describes all the instru
 ments added by him to the Cape Observatory and is a
 worthy successor to W. Struve's description of Pulkowa
 Observatory.       It also contains a complete history of
 the Cape Observatory, and, most interesting of all, an
 actual autobiography of himself so far as his scientific
 work is concerned.       It is for this reason that the present
 volume deals with his scientific work only in so far as
 parts of it serve to illustrate the character of the man.
 The printing of the History, etc., was completed, and the
 book was circulated among his friends before his final
illness. Subsequently, during and after that last illness,
these friends uttered a paean of thanksgiving that he had
been able to leave behind him this imperishable memorial.
Dr. Backhand of Pulkowa has beautifully spoken of the
book as Gill's Swan Song.
    Dr. Auwers, who died at the age of seventy-six, in 1915,
one year after Sir David Gill, to the very day, January 24,
wrote his last letter to him in November 1913, in a very
cramped handwriting, to express appreciation of his book.
There is something pathetic about the almost illegible
letter.
                        From Dr. Auwers
                    Berlin-Lichterfelde,    55  Bellevue Str,
                                               1913. November 13.
    My dearest Friend, — Last week           I received the copy
of your History and Description of the Cape Observatory
        1
          Published at H.M. Stationery Office.      Price 25s.
      AA

354                       LAST DAYS              [Chap. XXVII
announced some days before by your last letter, and I
read at once a good deal of the history and turned over
the drawings of the instruments erected since 1889
          —
[1879?] then the volume was laid aside for a time, to
be more carefully read when my eyes are in a better
condition than presently. In the now prevailing dark
weather it is difficult for me to read any longer time, and
artificial illumination makes things only worse.         But I
have read enough of the big book, to learn that it is full
of interest, the more so to those who are acquainted with
the Cape Observatory and its astronomers, and will
prove useful for astronomers in general.          You can be
proud    to have  written that book, the largest part of which
is a history and description of your own scientific life !
Indeed, the words of Sir John Herschel, who in his
obituary of Bessel so justly said of Bessel with regard to
astronomy :
                " Lateritiam invenit, marmoream reliquit,"
will with the same right [be] applied by the history of
our beloved science to you with regard to the Cape
Observatory !
    I thank you very much for the beautiful present you
make me with the volume, and thank you most sincerely
for the very kind and friendly terms in which you acknow
ledge my share in the common part of our astronomical
work.      You only should not, in connection with the
 observations of 1889, have spoken of self-sacrifice on
 my part which you feared would never be adequately
repaid — the pains I took to assist you in an important
 undertaking were fully repaid at once during my sojourn
 at the Royal Observatory, by the profound strengthening
 of your most benefiting friendship and by the gain of
 your most excellent and truly adored wife's sympathy.
 These four months of 1889, indeed, were one of the most
 happy periods of my life — and there was nothing of self-
 sacrifice in connection with them !
    Your letter of June last was like a blow on my head —
 I was quite ashamed to have forgotten your 70th birthday
 and can only so late afterwards express my satisfaction
 and joy that you have reached this term so full of health
 and activity. The reason why I always delayed to offer
 you afterwards congratulations has been, that I hoped
 this would be done in a more legible form than by these
 lines if I waited, but there seems to be no hope of recovery
 from the lameness of my arm which nearly prevents me

1913]               A DEVOTED FRIEND                            355
from writing    (it
                 is     not from apoplexy as you might fear
to infer from this statement, but age), the hand not
following the orders given to        itand making only micro
scopical motions, by which      I    compose these lines only
with extreme difficulty, and fear you will find considerable
difficulty to read them.
     (Cont? Nov. 16.)   I   forgot the approach of your 70th
birthday      under  the  impression   that you were far more
than five years behind me in age — an impression occa
sioned by the still continuous amount of your activity in
life and science    !   Both of us have worked enormously,
but you have taken the better part, in caring for a relief
for mental exertion in out of door exercise, which              I
neglected too much, and besides, you are benefited with
 a happier temper which much contributes to keep you
young. — In my feeling of shame on behalf of my forget-
f  ulness
        I    was a little comforted by remembering that once
 Lady Gill, too, forgot your birthday — in the preparation
 for Ascension  !
     The idea of the British knights of the order p.l.m.
 to congratulate the Emperor on his jubilee, was            a very
 good one — certainly the Emperor will have been much
 pleased by this greeting.
        amused myself about your
                                          "          "
                                                           do not
 I                                           skrupel   (I
                               "               "
 know the English word,           hesitation   is  not quite the
 same)     how properly to address me. My official title
      " Wirklicher Geheimer Ober —
is                                      Regierungsrath," which
 means a Councillor of the first class (there are five classes),
 but this holds good only when            I have to do with the
 Court and the Court-officials, otherwise     I    do not lay any
 stress upon titles and honours except those of        a  scientific
 character, and to my English friends         I  prefer to remain
                 "               "
 always the        Dr. Auwers      whom they knew so many
 years and to whom so many men on the other side
 of the channel, men still living and, alas, more men
 already gone have been kind throughout all this time.
  It is    since 1866 that   I     was an Associate of your
R.A.S.
    Ifeel very sorry you could give only so unsatisfactory
news of Lady Gill's health      She wrote me
                                 !                welcome
                                                       a
letter two months ago, and wanted to know our present
lodgings — address to her by this same mail, a post
            I
card bearing a photograph of it.
   Always your sincere friend,              A. Auwers.

 356                       LAST DAYS                   [Chap.   XXVII
    Dr. Hale wrote from Pasadena, on December 6, 1913,
 a letter to Gill which he never saw. In it he says—
   I have been      reading your book on the Cape Observatory
with the keenest interest, and wish to thank you very
heartily for sending it. What a satisfaction it must be
for you to look back upon so much work accomplished !
But your present activity bids fair to yield an equally
important contribution to science.  May your days be
long in the land !
   All scientific   men felt that the publication oftliis book
 marked the closing record of a life continuously, selflessly
 and ungrudgingly devoted to the service of astronomy.
 There can now be no indiscretion in telling what was an
 open secret, that in 1913 Sir David Gill's name was before
 the Council of the Royal Society for the award of the
 Copley Medal, their highest means of recognition.        Post
 ponement for a year, which all present thought quite
 safe, was preferred for three reasons : the recent award to
 Sir David of a Royal Medal in 1903, Sir David's presence
 upon the Council, and the urgent claims of the actual
 recipient.  His is not the only case       (e. Poincar6) in
                                                  g.
                                                 "
late years where postponement has meant            too late."
 [Cf. p. 379, letter to  Newcomb,   on the award to him of
the Copley    Medal,  dated January 14, 1891.]
   This bald narrative of Gill's activities      now nearly
                                                   is
concluded.     It    ispartially supplemented by extracts
from letters in the Appendix to some of Sir David's
dearest friends.     These, chosen as samples, convey far
more the spirit of the man in work or pastime, and the
ever-ready friendship.       They recall the cordial hand
shake, the interested   smile, the merry eye-twinkle and the
sincere voice of the man who could count his enemies at
any period of his life on the thumbs of one hand.
   The seeds of Gill's last illness were probably laid at
Sir Robert Ball's funeral.       On December     he went to
                                                   6
Cambridge, walking with Knobel and Dyson from the
station in a  thick greatcoat and getting overheated. He

 1914]            ILLNESS AND DEATH                       357
 then attended at King's College Chapel without his over
 coat.  It was a treacherous day, and after the ceremony
 he stood about the quad conversing with others.       There
 can be no doubt that he thus caught a chill, just as Knobel
did, and both were eventually laid up.
    About this time he was several times out pheasant
 shooting, and at least on one occasion came home
 thoroughly drenched. He suffered a little from colds
 and had an attack of deafness.      There was nothing to
 cause alarm.
    On Friday, December 12, he attended the meeting of
the Royal Astronomical Society, and handed over to the
society the photograph of the moon which he had taken
in 1868 and had presented to the late Sir William Huggins.
On going home he again complained of deafness, saying
that he had found difficulty in hearing what was said at
the meeting.
    On Saturday, December 13, he saw the doctor, who
attended to his ears, after which he seemed to hear
 better, but in the evening he was dull and heavy.
   On Sunday, the 14th, he took a short walk with Lady
Gill in Kensington Gardens and the Park, but returned
sooner than usual as he complained of being tired. He
remained at home all afternoon, setting aside his invariable
habit of attending the Sunday afternoon concerts in the
Albert Hall.
   He did not go out on Monday, December 15, but
wrote a little for his Introduction to De Sitter's work on
Jupiter's satellites. After dinner he had a slight shivering
fit which might be due to influenza, but on Tuesday, the
16th, Sir Lauder Brunton pronounced it to be double
pneumonia. Pleurisy followed, with much pain while it
lasted. These symptoms disappeared, but the strain on
the heart's action had been too great.
   Then followed five weeks of perfect patience and calm
on the part of the patient, of hopes and dreadful doubts
on the part of all his friends, with days of ups and of

358                    LAST DAYS              [Chap. XXVII
downs. At the January meeting of the Royal Astrono
mical Society the President, Major Hills, was able to say,
"
   to-day there is a distinct improvement," and mingled
with other marks of gladness, the audible sigh of satis
faction from the breasts of such an audience brought a
lump to the throat.
          ******
    Throughout the illness his weakness was so great that
visitors could not see him. He had hardly the strength
to speak.    On the morning of January 24 he passed
quietly away in the arms of his beloved wife.
    The sorrow which fell upon his friends was profound,
and the consternation with which the news was received
by astronomers was almost incredible. He had been so
 vigorous to the end that his guidance in great co-operative
works had been confidently expected to last, at least, for
ten more years.    At the time of the fatal announcement,
 after the long period of hope and dread, it seemed to his
 astronomical friends that the progress of astronomy had
 been suddenly stopped.     In some of its greatest under
 takings the two years that have followed seem almost to
 confirm this foreboding. The astronomical world hardly
 knew till that moment how much they were relying upon
 this man for their guidance in so many things. This
 has been the universal testimony of those who had worked
with him.
    During one of his last visits to Aberdeen, undertaken
 in connexion with a proposed Chair of Astronomy at that
 university, he had wandered with the Principal, Sir
 George Adam Smith, over the beautiful and ancient Old
 St. Machar Cathedral ; and, struck by the solemn beauty
 of the site, he there and then purchased the site of a
 grave for his wife and himself, situated in a ruined part
 of the Cathedral.
    On January 27 a small company of devoted friends
  accompanied the body to King's Cross station, and
 with it his widow, accompanied by a nurse and a few

 igi4]               THE FUNERAL                          359
 relatives and friends, travelled to Aberdeen by the night
express.
    On January 28 a large and representative body of
 mourners assembled at the station, and subsequently
joined the funeral cortege which proceeded to St. Machar
 Cathedral, in Old Aberdeen. The coffin was hidden by
the wreaths, which numbered nearly one hundred, and
included floral tributes and tokens from all parts of the
world.
    The interment took place outside the existing cathedral
building in what was formerly the north aisle of the
transept, close to the site of the great altar, an impressive
service being conducted at the graveside by Canon
Erskine Hill of St. Andrew's Episcopal Church, Aberdeen
— the church in which Sir David Gill was baptised, in
which he worshipped in his early days, and with which
his people had been connected for many years.
   The pall bearers were Mr. A. J. Mitchell Gill (brother) ;
Mr. A. W. Mitchell (cousin) ; Principal George Adam
Smith (representing the University of Aberdeen) ; the
Right Hon. Robert Farquharson of Finzean, Vice-
Lieutenant of the County of Aberdeen, representing
Lord Aberdeen; Mr. Harvey Hall; Mr. William Black;
Professor Niven ; Mr. A. J. W. Storie ; and Dr. Bruce.
   The tenants on the estate of Blairythan were represented.
   Floral tokens were sent by the observatories of the
Cape, Greenwich, Paris, Pulkowa, Mount Wilson (U.S.A.)
and other scientific bodies.
   At the same time a memorial service was held at St.
Mary Abbot, Kensington.         It was conducted by Pre
bendary Pennefather, assisted by the Rev. C. Balmer,
and was attended by a large number of the sorrowing
friends who mourned his loss.
   The following description of the grave was written by
Lady Gill herself —
   *'
      My sacred ground lies in Old Machar Cathedral,
within, and on the west side of, the half ruined wall of the

 360                     LAST DAYS               [Chap.  XXVII
 north transept built by Bishop Lychton in 1430. This
 part of the transept is known as St. John's Aisle, and
 when the ground was being made ready for my beloved
 dead, there was evidence to show that he lies near the
 foot of the high altar.
    " This wall                                    '
                                                     The Com
                   being under the control of
 missioners for the Preservation of Scottish Ancient Build
 ings and Monuments,' I had to obtain their permission
 to remove the disfiguring whitewash in order to insert
 the mural tablet.      On that being done, seven roughly
 dressed sandstones were discovered just over the centre
 of the ground, which, according to Mr. Kelly (an Aber
 deen architect      and antiquary),    indicates that they
 formed part of a pier between two long narrow windows.
    " The tablet, as well as the curbstone and corner blocks,
 is of grey Aberdeen granite and the connecting bars are
 of bronze. The grave is turfed over and no flowers are
 placed upon it, except when I am able to renew them
 daily —only the chaplet of laurel leaning against the old
 wall.
    "David himself chose the ground in 1909, while we
 were staying at Aboyne near Aberdeen, during the
 summer of that year. He spoke enthusiastically to me
 afterwards of the sanctity of the site and the peaceful
 beauty of its surroundings, and so we decided to buy this
 ground for our burial.
    " I never saw it until the 28th of last January, when
 we laid him to rest.
                                                   " I. S. G.
       "Nov. 14, '14."
"'

         [To jar.: /
THE END.


APPENDICES

                           APPENDIX I
            LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE         OF DAVID GILL
       Letters to Miss Agnes Clerke, Professor Simon Newcomb,
              Professor Kapteyn and Professor G. E. Hale.
Sir David Gill was a voluminous correspondent during
every part of his life. When Airy and Adams were gone there
were no renowned astronomers left in England who could co
operate with him in his particular lines of research. His
situation in the southern hemisphere detached him from
insularity, and his astronomical correspondence acquired a
cosmopolitan character. His long letters, commonly of fifteen
or twenty pages, quarto, contained valuable discussions.
Those dealing with the design and methods of using instru
ments of precision would form the basis of a valuable text
book.     For the purpose of this book only a small selection of
letters can be inserted, as examples of the spirit in which
he maintained friendships with astronomers in all parts of
the world.
                  Letters to Miss Agnes Clerke
    A  letter, dated November 7, 1888, gives her information
 about the progress of solar parallax observations on Iris by
 himself and Finlay.
                            Cape  of Good Hope,   November 14, 1888.
    My dear Miss Clerke, — Our week's work on Iris is                as
 follows.    [Details given.]
    So you see only one day has been lost in the week.           You
 really have run away from the fine weather.              /3 Hydri   is
 polished off, a Gruis and Fomalhaut are in hand in the
 evenings — the division errors drag their slow length along —
 the photographs go on — the bar comparisons — the meridian
 observations — the observation of occultations,           the zenith
 telescope and the theodolite work, but I am too hard-pressed
 for eyesight to deal with star spectra.       I must wait till Iris
 is over.
                                  363

364           LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
   Grubb sends out his plan of the Dome which has been
approved by the Admiralty.         It is two feet bigger than    I
asked for ! ! I — They abused me for asking a 20 ft. observa
tory and wanted to make me adopt 18 feet. After a fight
they agree to 20 feet, and now they want to give me 21
feet 10" ! ! !— But my foundations are laid for the 20 ft.
observatory. . . .
   More news next week. — Always yr sincere friend,
                                                  David Gill.
                         Cape  of Good Hope,  November 28, 1888.
   My dear Miss Clerke, — We were glad to hear that
reasonably good arrangements had been made to convey you
home — and that all were well on board — I only trust your
good people at home were not much frightened.         [It appears
that Miss Clerke 's ship had a collision with the Tartar{?).
Here follow details of Iris observations.]
   Last week we put on the micrometer again on the 7* Equ1,
and had a clean up there. Finlay and I roared with laughter
on examining the floor — your track on the floor in search of
the Decln circle was marked by a perfect deluge of oil — what
state are the dresses in in which you observed ? — These spots
shall be sacred as Rizzio's blood in Holyrood Palace.       I can
                                  —
only send a few lines this mail. Always sincerely yn,
                                                  David Gill.
                          Cape  of Good Hope, December 12, 1888.
   My dear Miss Clerke, — We were so much delighted to
get yr letters from Madeira, and if we only learn by to-morrow's
mail that yr people at home were not anxious about you we
shall feel quite content that you had a little adventure by the
way.
   I got a blowing up about my last letter to you — it did not
go through the censor's office, and I am told on the best
authority that had it been submitted to that ordeal it would
certainly have been added to the Suppressed Correspond
ence.    It was very unkind of me to put in anything about
oil and the search for the Decln circle —in fact I caught it— a
Tartar — so did you by the way.
   My little wife has not been well for the past fortnight —
severe continuous headache.      We are going off to Kalk Bay
for a week's rest and change.
   Iris has ended quite triumphantly —with good observa
tions on Nov. 28, 29, 30, Dec. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.     On
Nov. 10 [Dec. 10?] I recorded for the first time in my life
Images 1 Steadiness 1 — absolutely perfect definition — and at
a zenith distance of 700.      So far Elkin has corresponding

                       MISS     CLERKE                        365
observations on about half the total number of nights — but
his last report only goes to Oct. 27. We have so many ob
servations after Nov. 2 that we can almost make sure of
utilizing any observations whatever that Elkin may get. In
all we have 43 nights on which observations were secured —
           ******
and to-night and to-morrow night are still before us.
   Last night we had another Remenyi Concert — truly
glorious — how I wish that you could have been here to hear
him — he is coming out here this afternoon.
   My wife sends her kind love — give my kindest regards to
all yr home circle. — Believe me always yr sincere friend,
                                                 David Gill.
                           Cape of Good Hope, January  16, 1889.
   My dear Miss Clerke, — I am afraid           I am what our
                                     "
friend Major Morris would call a       baad booy." Just after
the Iris observations were over we went to Kalk Bay, and
there I lay on the rocks and read trash for a week — and was
much the better for the process.
   We came back for Xmas. Sir Chas. Metcalfe dined with us
in the middle of the day and told us all about his adventures
in Bechuanaland when surveying the railway which I earnestly
hope may be made. Boerdom and the Bond are of course
against it. Then we all turned out on the lawn and played
at rounders with the Finlay, Pett and Maclear youngsters till
we were fairly done up.      Then the world was filled with the
excitement of a cricket week. Major Morris was quite mad
for 8 or 10 days and did nothing but go and watch the
English v. Cape matches — a dissipation which he has averaged
by tremendous hard work ever since.
   We have had since Dec. 28 the finest run of weather I have
ever seen at the Cape — exquisite clear sky— no south easter
and superb definition.
    So the Heliometer has been very busy both evening and
morning.    I was just on the verge of knocking up when a
couple of cloudy nights — last night and the preceding one —
have given me rest.
    So busy was I that I had almost overlooked my Report to
the R. A. S. for the year — I wrote it last night — and it will
be just in time.    You will find y* visit mentioned.
    I hope yr article will come out in the January N° of the
 Contemporary.     I much wish to see it. The Observatory
letter reads well.
    I am glad to hear you are so fairly in the way to mark,
learn and inwardly digest all possible particulars of the

366         LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
Herschels — are   you going to Collingwood ? You will like
Sir William    I think. I had much pleasure in making his
acquaintance at Oxford in 1877.
   Tell me about any news of yr book in Germany.           I don't
think yr music loving Dublin friend is wrong — an hour or
two of Handel & Co. every day will brighten the Astronomy
and do you good — to say nothing of the joy you can give to
yr astronomical and other friends.      Believe me life is not too
short nor the day too short for a little music every day — and
when we come home in 1890 I hope to hear some results of yr
study.
   Mouchez writes me again that the 1891 meeting will after
all be the important one, but that one could not lose the
opportunity of the exhibition to have a meeting in 1890.
 I do not see the connection myself — but I am not French.
So we shall leave the exhibition to take care of itself but
come to the meeting of 1891.
   I think that Dr. Auwers will come in June for 3 months
and take part in the observations of Victoria. It will be a
great joy to me to have him here.
   The chief observatory event is the arrival of a baby — the
Father — Mr. Ray Woods — is beside himself with pride and
joy. Before the arrival his chief thought was the Durch-
musterung — Mr. Merriman who had been absent for a few
weeks in the Transvaal had not heard of the new arrival, and
on meeting Mr. Woods by chance enquired as usual after the
"
   magnum opus," expecting a detailed account of progress
in the photography of the S. hemisphere. — Imagine his sur
                                         " Oh,
prise when Woods gushingly replied,             very well indeed,
thank you, such a fine fellow, and as like his mother as
possible."
   rj Argus is still brightening — quite 6J mag. — but I cannot
yet make out a distinctive spectrum — colour reddish orange.
   I wish one had more time and could go on for ever at work.
But 3 sets of Heliometer obs. at night — and 3 sets of divn
errors by day are as much as my eyes can manage — and I
            ******
cannot go skipping about the pleasant fields of miscellaneous
observing till I have broken the back of my Heliometer
work— However, yr bequest 17 Argus shall be carefully looked
to. . . .
        Always sincerely yours,                   David Gill.
   P.S.   Poor Christie — last mails news of the death of his
wife is very sad. I feel for him most sincerely — he was
deeply attached to his wife and she to him — her loss will
make a sad blank in his life.

                           MISS CLERKE                           367
             ******
    My dear Miss Clerke,
Chap. XVII.
                                 Cape of Good Hope, March
    I must plunge at once into the interesting matter of yr
                                                           g, 1889.
                    You will find y* MSS. (herewith returned)
disfigured    by    pencil scribblings all along the margins —
written in the delighted and at the same time critical attitude
of first perusal.     I think you will find them legible enough —
but perhaps not very useful.        On two or three points perhaps
it is necessary to explain further.          [Here follow valuable
facts, chiefly historical, for Miss Clerke's sole use.     Only one
criticism, illustrating the man's mental attitude, is suitable
for these pages, where he says :] I cannot bear metaphysical
questions — such as so many of my countrymen love — but I
confess to you that I do not like the airy way in which you
                           "
make the assertion           since the stellar system is of finite
dimensions."       If you adopt the theory that the star clusters
form part of our sidereal system — and are not separate and
more distant systems of which there may be an infinite
variety and infinite number — if you mean by the stellar
system all those bodies which we call stars — and which
represent to our eyes the largest part of creation that we
know — which indeed so far as our minds can grasp such a
thing, are the whole embodiment of existent material matter,
then you are by this statement placing a limit to the extent
 of existent matter which I find it as difficult to do as to limit
 the conceptions of infinite power and of an infinitely powerful
 creator.    It is useless to pursue an argument on such a sub
 ject — you come at once to the unbreakable and insurmount
 able wall against which all the mental philosophers and meta
 physicians have been beating their heads since the days of
 Plato without making the slightest impression against that
 obstacle — the boundary wall of the little hollow sphere which
 limits the mental conceptions of man, and which by death he
 alone can pass to the freedom of the space beyond — to the
 wider knowledge of God and his creatures.
     If you say,   " Provided that the stellar
                                                  system is of finite
 dimensions
               "  then so and so — you are then in a strictly
 logical satisfactory position.
     [The letter proceeds to describe and discuss the plan which
  Professor Kapteyn had just sent him for obtaining stellar
  parallaxes accurately and in shoals by exposing the same
  photographic plate at two intervals of six months.         He also
  describes a plan privately put forth by Pickering for producing
  a photographic chart of the whole heavens in both hemi
  spheres, with a single specially designed telescope, in a few

 368          LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
                   "
 years. He says : As a mere map making plan this is infinitely
 superior to the Paris plan, and will cost in the end far less."]
    I am glad to have some explanation of the non-appearance
 of yr note in the Feb* number of the Observatory.      There are
 few reasons I could excuse more readily than the distraction
 produced by golf.
   There is no star on yr list marked r Velorum.       There is a
star r Argus 1oh 17™ 30s, — 41° 5' 29", mag. 53, N° 31a of yr
list. Yr only note is
                           " observed Oct. 10 when
                                                        spectrum
seemed continuous."      I will look the matter up after publica
tion of yr note in March number.
   What a most wonderful photograph that is of Roberts of
the Andromeda nebula — a nebular Saturn ? — with all manner
of subsidiary vortices in the rings. It must influence your
views on the nature of nebulae.
   I should say most decidedly stick to Dreyer's Catalogue,
and its numbers, it is practically complete — certainly so for
your purposes.
   I cannot write more this mail. I can only thank you for
the great pleasure that the reading of this chapter has given
me, and I should very much like to see others.
   My chief news is that Dr. Auwers is to sail for the Cape on
 May 3 to pay us a visit — that is a great joy.
   The survey reductions are finished and Morris left yesterday
for Port Elizabeth to resume field work.
   The Transvaal is beginning the geodetic survey which           I
planned for them.      I have its scientific direction, and one
of their surveyors came down a week ago to remain a few
months and practise astronomical observations of Latitude,
Longitude and Azimuth. I have long worked for this and
am happy in its realization and think that in course of a
few years we shall be able to show important geodetic
results.
   My little wife is fairly well — a little return of the old
suffering.   She joins me in all kind messages to you and
yours.
   Believe me always yr sincere friend,            David Gill.
   Where    did you pick up such a
                                          "          "
                                            sporting   phrase as
" Swiftness       be safely backed against conspicuous lustre
                                                                 "
              may
(p. 18).   Was it in the Bohemia of the observatory or in the
racing society of Government House ? ! ! !
                             Cape  of Good Hope, March 15, 1889.
   My dear Miss Clerke, — Your letter of 14th Feb* has
just arrived, and the Chapter on Star Distances was sent

                        MISS    CLERKE                       369
off by last mail— with numerous notes thereon.         Elkin will
certainly work further on a Lyrse — but his results are un
questionably far more trustworthy than any previous deter
minations of the parallax of that star — although I confess to
you that it is almost impossible to overturn Brunnow's
evidence — the first paper of the Dunsink Series.    And yet we
have in a second paper of the same Series, on further measures
of a Lyrae, a confession and a proof of change of habit in
bisecting the brighter star. That is really the root and the
foundation of the Heliometer method — you perfectly equalize
the brightness of the two images under measurement — what
ever change of habit of bisection may occur it affects equally
both stars and the two opposite pairs of stars, and its effect
on the parallax entirely disappears.
   With bright stars the chromatic dispersion of the atmo
sphere produces probably a different displacement of the
point bisected than it does in case of faint stars — and there
are other curious sources of error when stars of dissimilar
brightness are compared.     Then again, as I pointed out in my
marginal notes, there is proof in Elkin's work alone of con
siderable possibilities of variation in the absolute parallax of
the comparison stars.
   The details of Elkin's work are not yet published — but I
should say on the whole it must be and is most thoroughly
sound.    But we can only talk of absolute parallaxes now
when we have determined parallaxes relative to a number of
comparison stars and have some sound notion of the average
parallax of such comparison stars.
   The review of yr book in the National Zeilung is evidently
a species of German Jingo production, and yr sister's guess as
to the origin of the inspiration of it may be nearer the truth
than she supposed when she made her joke.            It is rabid
nonsense to say that the German Transit of Venus results
will be peculiarly triumphant, as I happen to know more
intimately than most people do Dr. Auwers, the organizer of
the whole work and the Editor and reducer of the results.
His view is that the chief value of the expedition was the
determination of the geographical positions of many places
not well known before, the impulse to invent new methods
of astronomy and new instruments which was the indirect
result of turning many minds to one subject.       The resulting
parallax will be an approximation to the truth but by no
means a definitive settlement of the question.   This is Auwers'
idea and he knows more about the matter than any one else
at present and certainly a great deal — infinitely more — than
yr reviewer.   More than that, he is coming out here himself
to share in the work of the Victoria Observations in June,
     BB

               ******
 370            LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
 July and August, because with you he believes that the Helio-
 meter-Minor-Planet-method is the right one.
    I don't see that you could depart very far from the historical
 style in the star distance chapter.       You cannot evolve stellar
 parallaxes     from   yr  inner  consciousness — and you must be
 peculiarly careful     about  facts.
    I want to see the other chapters as soon as you can let me
 have them.        I write at once and in haste— for many things
press.  —  Always Sincerely Y",                      David Gill.
    [P.S.]    There are some good notes on Stellar parallax in
the Sidereal Messenger for Feb* by Monch (p. 62).
    I have just got a formal letter from Tacchini with a Diploma
intimating my election as a corresponding member of the
 Italian Spectroscopic Society. It must be a sort of token of
favours spectroscopic to come from me for I don't think I
have done much as yet to promote spectroscopy.                 I had
perhaps some       claim  to the Acad. Line.  Rome,  but none  to the
Specc Society.       D. G.
                                         French Hoek, April 7, 1889.
    My dear Miss Clerke, — We           came here 8 days ago for a
little holiday after the summer heat. Since the beginning
               ******
of the year my little wife has been suffering from the old
trouble and pain which she had before you came to the Cape.
Only on this occasion the suffering has been more continuous
 and more severe.
    I  have had a terribly busy time. One by one my com
puters have been going off to the gold fields — and I have had
to write to the Admiralty to send some out from England, as
no suitable young men can be found at the Cape. Thus I am
not able to write you as much as I would wish to do.
    But now to resume the thread of our correspondence.
 [Further considerations re parallax of stars, and particularly
of Groombridge, 1830.]
    The Contemporary article arrived on the eve of our leaving
for this place, and I read it in the train. I have since re-read
it carefully. . . .
   The paper reads delightfully in print. All papers do read
so much better in print than in MSS. — and you know how
much     I  liked it in the latter form. You are really most
eloquent on the flowers, and almost equally so on the southern
stars. I should have thought it W1 have been the other way—
but then you use such a delightfully astronomical and at the
same time absolutely perfect expression
                                                 " a Milky Way of

              ******
                           MISS CLERKE                               371
        "        I don't know whether the flowers owe most to
lilies — that
the stars or the stars to the flowers.
    I  look forward to reading Ball's article in Macmillan —
such articles as that are very helpful — they accustom the
public mind and the minds of those who hold the purse strings
to the    needs of astronomy.
    I  do not think you have seen the Orion Nebula with the
naked eye. You have seen, as             I see, a rather ill defined
looking star — which looks as if it were several stars together —
too close for definite separation by the naked eye — but I do
not think that any one could say, who did not know that there
was a nebula there — that is either a nebula or a star cluster.
    Now you can say that of the Andromeda Nebula and of
many star clusters like Presepe in Cancer — but I do not think
any one could say so of the Orion Nebula.           I certainly cannot
say that I see more than the possibility of a few fairly bright
stars near each other, and my eyes are as good as those of
 most people.
    I was delighted to see that Mr. Roberts 1 had presented
 Ball with a Reflector.        Ball will use it well — and he will
 probably develope accurate measurement by photography.
 He has a very fine mechanical genius and will plan his work
 well.    He is getting a little past the time of life when men
like much getting up in the early morning at the uncomfort
 able hours which rigid parallax observations require, when
              ******
 all possible personal errors have to be investigated — but he
 will get a photographic assistant to do that for him, and will
 look to the measurements and their planning and discussion
 himself.
    I am delighted to hear that Common has got an assistant.
 Such an instrument as his deserves to be worked at every
 opportunity — and a busy man like Common cannot do that.
    I am delighted to hear that the giant glass discs are cast
 for the Californian 5 foot refractor [sic].      I hardly agree with
 you that 3 foot is the limit of useful size. . . .
    I hope they will go in for a better mounting. I warned
             ******
 Newcomb of the error of the American tendency.               The Lick
 mounting    is unquestionably     too light —  How   I  should  like to
 plan   a mounting   for the 5  foot.  It  will be great pity if this
                                                   a
 5 ft. is not in some way available for photography.
    Many thanks for the references to Ball's, Holden's and
 Sir C. Metcalfe's papers in various magazines.         I shall read all
                           1
                             [Isaac Roberts.]

            ******
372              LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
with much interest, and I shall always be very grateful for
similar references in future.
                Always Sincerely Yre,                  David Gill.
                             Cape of Good Hope, July i, 1889.
  My dear Miss Clerke, — I have allowed several mails to
pass without telling you that yr two Chapters arrived safely.
   Auwers and I have gone over one, and I hope before next
 mail that we shall be able to go over the other also— and I
 hope to have time to send you a letter about them.        I only
 write now a few lines of apology.    I am so busy.
   Most of my computers are off to the gold fields — even
Mr. Freeman is gone, and having cabled for more from England
the Admiralty want a report — which I am now writing.
   Natal wants a decision from me about her share of the
survey — and this is the time for preparing estimates for next
financial year — and the new Photographic Dome is being put
up — and the Victoria Observations, and arrangements for
telegraphic longitudes on the W. Coast of Africa —Capt.
Pullen as travelling observer, — All was just ready, his personal
equation determined, and he was to sail in H.M.S. Peacock —
and behold to-day that ship is ordered off to Delagoa Bay
with H.M.S. Bramble also to look after British v. Portuguese
interests there. So new plans have to be made.
   So I am in a snorl of work, and you will I hope excuse
these hurried lines from yr Sincere friend,      David Gill.
   P.S. — 16 sets of parallax obs. of Victoria up to date. Please
mark, learn and inwardly digest Vogel's recent paper in the
Astron. Nach. on his photographic determination, by means of
his new spectroscope, of stellar motions in the line of sight.
Contrast,   for example, his results for the motion of Capella
with those at Greenwich.       See how perfectly the results are
brought   into  perfect accord  when corrected for the motion of
the Earth.     One almost looks for the time when the velocity
of the Earth's motion        e. the ©r parallax) may be deter
                             (*.
mined in this way.      Ithink      the most important advance
                                   it   is
in practical astronomy made at one step for many       long day.
                                                           a
His results in accuracy are to those of Greenwich as the
accuracy of Bradley to that of Ptolemy.
   My wine has been very well indeed since return from French
Hoek till couple of days ago when pain returned.
            a
                            Cape   of Good Hope,   September 11, 1889.
  My dear Miss Clerke, — am quite ashamed of myself but
                                   I
Auwers and Victoria together have been too much for me —

                         MISS CLERKE                             373
all my    time has been so closely occupied.      But we have got
a very splendid    set of observations over 3100 pointings on 51
evenings and 48 mornings — and these alone without the work
of any other observatory would give not a bad value of the
0r    parallax.   But combined with the Yale, Leipzig, Got-
tingen and Bamberg (?) observations should make a tremen
dously exact determination.          Hartwig of Bamberg I hear
was married just a week or two before the Victoria observa
tions began — and I have not heard from him yet whether he
has made any observations of Victoria or not — but I fear not.
Elkin and Hall have of course done a lot of work and their
reports are favourable up to the date they go. Leipzig and
Gottingen, valuable but less numerous than Yale.
    By next mail without fail your chapters will return to you.
              ******
              *       •       *        *       *        *
    My dear Friend Auwers is off — he left us last week — my
wife was in tears at his going — Auwers and I had a little
holiday together.
              ******
    My wife is so well — and has so been for the last four months.
    I am in despair about computers — all going off to the gold
fields — I fear Sawerthal will go too.
    Ever yr Sincere friend,                         David Gill.
                           Cape of Good Hope,   September 18, 1889.
    My dear Miss Clerke, — At last I send off the Chaps.
 XVIII    and XIX, and the more I read them the more I like
them. There are only a few points about which I have
made notes on the margin — so few that I am ashamed to have
 kept them so long for so little.
    But Auwers and Victoria kept me very busy, and then we
took a little holiday together to Ceres, Wellington and Cape
 Point, and this created arrears to be made up — and so . . .
    Please forgive —and let us pass on.
    Holden is attempting too many different things with the
 Lick telescope — and after what Vogel has done he should go
 straight into stellar spectra and stellar motion in line of sight
 by photographs.     You must dwell on this more in Chap. XIX.
 Contrast the results with the two methods — not the mean but
 the individual results — and show the enormous advance that
 has been made.
    I heard, probably through the same Oxford channel as
 j^self, of the Huggins difficulties, and I was delighted to hear
 that steps were being taken to secure a Queen's pension — no
 one ever better deserved it.

374          LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
   Yes, Pickering is the fellow to pick up money —and he uses
it well when he gets it.
   I deplore the tone of the Observatory article on the sub
ject. . . . His star pictures will be much more complete and
convenient (for they will contain 25 square degrees each)
than those of the Congress which contain only 4 square
degrees — but his work will be far less accurate and incom
parably inferior in importance to the Catalogue.         The two
works are both desirable and should both be carried out.
   As I said before — you have tumbled into a common error
about Argelander's Durchmusterung.         It is only exact, and
only pretends   to be exact to  9th Mag.   Anything below 92 or
93 was put down as 9-10 and printed 95, but really a vast
number of 10 mag. stars were thus catalogued.
   I sent you a report of a lecture which I gave the other day
in Cape Town — a hash of the R1 Institution lecture and the
nebular hypothesis. — but the people seemed delighted with
it — and in articles about it they said the Queen of Sheba
(that's you) had come from the North (instead of the South)
to hear the wisdom of Solomon (that's me !) — and much other
Editorial froth.
   Did I tell you that Victoria was a great success. Auwers
and I got 3100 pointings on the planet.           Sappho begins
to-night — and I have to do both the evening and the morning
            ******
observM for Mr. Finlay is engaged in exchanging signals with
Captain Pullen every night — who is travelling along the W.
coast with a gunboat and determining the longitudes at all
points where the cable lands.
   My little wife is so well. She liked Auwers as much as I
do.   He is such a splendid fellow — so staunch and true —
so absolutely reliable. — Her absolutely good health during
Auwers' stay dispelled the only cloud that ever happens in
our home life — anxiety— and so we had a very good time.
   She joins me in all kind messages to you and yours.
   Ever Sincerely Yra,                            David Gill.
   A letter dated February     26, 1890, from the Cape   of Good
Hope is very interesting, but rather too controversial for
these pages.    Regarding the Astrographic Catalogue he is glad
to be able to say :
                       " I think the
                                       Catalogue question begins
to settle itself." He reviews the course that had been fol
lowed by the Astronomer Royal's chief assistant, regretting it
for his sake, crediting him with a right spirit, and attributing
his hostility to that great undertaking to the unfortunate
influence upon him of men he is associated with.

                           MISS CLERKE                           375
    Regarding Mr. Christie's advice to the Admiralty not to
pay for the work of comparing the heliometer observations of
minor planets in the northern hemisphere with those at the
Cape, for determining finally the value of the solar parallax — .
one of the two objects for which the Admiralty had installed
the heliometer at the Cape— Gill speaks in pretty strong
terms, saying : " I need hardly tell you that I do not intend
to accept such a refusal."
    A letter dated May 6, 1890, after the death of Miss Clerke's
mother, deals with personal matters concerning which his
advice was asked.
                                  Cape  of Good Hope. 1890, July 8.
    My dear Friend, — I will write to you definitely about
ft Orionis next week, but the fact seems to be this that
fi Orionis and one of the comparison stars are at a very great
distance beyond the other comparison star. . . .
    I am very proud about my Berlin Acad.
    The only English Members are Prof. Cayley, E. Frankland,
Sir J. Hooker, Huxley, Salmon (Dublin), Sylvester, Sir W.
Thomson, Sir G. G. Stokes, Prof. Williamson (For. Sec. R.S.),
and Airy and Sir R. Owen who are Foreign Members, and
Earl Crawford Hon. Mem.
    The list of astronomers in the Acad. is Auwers, Airy,
Cayley, Gould, Krueger, Newcomb, Schiaparelli, Schonfeld,
Struve, Winnecke. — Yn sincerely,                   David Gill.
    The letters to Miss Clerke were for the first time interrupted
by the visit to England in 1890. Those of later date can be
quoted here only in parts.         Yet, if there were space, they
would be equally       valuable,  if the object of this book were
only to tell of the assistance he gave to others, the work of
the Cape Observatory, the opposition encountered, the suc
cesses gained, the approval of those whose opinion he valued,
and the honours showered upon him by learned societies in
all the great countries of the world.
    A letter dated July 22, 1894, discloses an intrigue against
him worked through the Treasury, and detected by the
 Admiralty. Dr. Gill tells Miss Clerke all this with full
                   "
 details, because    it is an item in the History of Astronomy."
 It is an example, he says, of what he has had to encounter
 for twelve years.

376                 LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
   1889 [1899     Feb. 13.
                      ?].   We are all rejoicing in the award
of the R.A.S. Medal to Mr. McClean, and the whole staff
assembled on Friday in the Dining Room and drank his
health with all the honours — cheering till the old place shook
again. . . . Rhodes has promised me that                  ...
                                                   he will place
at my disposal the fund necessary to carry the arc of meridian
to Lake Tanganyika.       devoutly hope all will go well — so
                                  I                                     if
I may yet live to see that arc carried to Cairo — perhaps even
connected with Struve's arc to the North Cape.
   1902.    Ihave been away in the Transvaal on a visit to
Lord Milner at Johannesberg.           need hardly tell you
                                              I                          I
enjoyed    — for there   no  man  whose
                                 is       society   enjoy more —
            is it
                                                            I
tho' he     such an overwrought man that one can only get
scraps of it. He     at work by
                            is      o'clock.
                                           7      hasty breakfast
                                                          A
and work on to 1.30 in his office at Sunnyside.        At 2.30 he
starts for his walk (i£ miles for exercise) to Johannesberg
whence he seldom returns till 7.30 —and at 10.30 he usually
goes to work again till the small hours of the morning. . . .
The labour question      very pressing — they have not half the
                                 is
native labour they require.   Rents are exorbitant.
                                                        " You see
that place over the bootshop — that's my office, and pay a rent I
for which might hire Buckingham Palace," said Lord Milner.
                I
   1903.  Feb. 18.    [Extolling her new book, Problems in
Astrophysics.]   So happy, so strong and so useful  book. . . . a
I do not believe that there     a man living who knew before
                                      is
hand all the facts that you have brought together, and brought
together so well in their proper places.
    1903.           2.
                DecemberMany thanks for your kind con
gratulations on  the Royal Medal Award.
   We were at Caledon at the time — Mr Franklin-Adams and
I  were chatting after lunch.   Bella had gone to her room
but presently returned with   flushed excited face — and eyes
                                      a
                    "
beaming with joy — Guess what        have got here," showing
                                              I
a telegram.   Of course we could not guess, so then she read
                 ******
the cable message which had been received at the Observatory
and forwarded by Mr. Hough.    It conveyed congratulations on
the Medal by Huggins,  Wharton,  Turner, MClean and Christie.
I remember nothing that has given her greater pleasure.
I    am busy erecting the new sidereal clock.       It is, or            I
believe will be, the most important step in instrumental Astro
nomy.1 It has cost first and last about £1000, and       expect     I
                [In support of this belief,   see p. 244, foot-note.]
            1

                  PROFESSOR           NEWCOMB                     377
the phials of the Admiralty wrath poured upon me for this
excess of estimated expenditure.
   Still, as I hope for nearly perfect results     I think I shall be
able to face the storm.       It took 24 mules to drag the wagons
conveying its various parts from the Docks to the Observatory
— so it is a more elaborate affair than the ordinary observatory
clock.    It has a whole house to itself.
   1904.    November    16.   [This letter tells of his deep grief on
the death    of Mr   Frank                 I have also lost another
                             Mclean.]
very dear friend Mr John F. White of Aberdeen.               ...   He
was one of the sweetest and best of men, and most highly
cultured. . . . Now his gentle spirit is at rest.
   Miss Clerke died in 1907, after Gill's final departure from
the Cape.
   The very great esteem in which Sir David Gill held Miss
Agnes Clerke was shared by many, among others by his
fellow-worker Newcomb.          Writing to Gill from Washington
March 5, 1907, he says      —
   I was much grieved to hear of Miss Clerke 's death following
so closely on that      of her sister.    In past years one of the
pleasantest features of my visits to London was my warm
and almost affectionate reception by my lady friends at
67 Redcliffe Square ; but it was only recently that I came to
know how interesting was the scholarship of the two Misses
Clerke.    Now they have gone, leaving the brother alone so
far as I know.     If you meet him I wish you would tell him of
my   sentiments.
                       Letters to Newcomb
   In the whole history of astronomy, far more than of the
experimental sciences, the men who secure the facts and those
who deduce the resulting theory have been different men.
The theorist is absolutely dependent upon the observer for
his data; and the observer who desires to use his power in
the best way must consider the needs of the mathematical
theorist.
   So Ptolemy was dependent upon Hipparchus, Kepler upon
Tycho Brahe, Newton upon Flamsteed, and Newcomb upon
Gill. The last of these could obtain, from the great observa
tories, data computed with the finest superintendence from
routine observations made by paid assistants.           But when he
wanted the utmost accuracy obtainable for his lunar and

378             LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
planetary calculations he relied largely upon Gill. The dis
tance of the sun, the mass of the moon and Jupiter, the con
stant of aberration, the accurate positions of the moon by
occultation and of major planets by heliometer, and, still
more difficult, of the sun, were some of the data discussed in
correspondence, and secured by Gill for Newcomb to use in
his tables.
    Sir Isaac Newton would have done more for astronomy had
he and Flamsteed (the Astronomer Royal), who were ever in
antagonism, been united by the affectionate esteem which
prevailed between Newcomb and Gill. The gaiety of Gill's
 disposition is continually shown in his correspondence with
 real astronomers, whose greatest happiness lies in loving
their science, and in making supreme efforts to do their duty
by it. Unflinching opponents of humbug like Simon New
comb were the men to whom Gill was most ready to show his
inner self, in work and in play.        The following extracts from
letters   to  Newcomb      could  be  written only between friends
who each thoroughly knew and appreciated the other's mind.
    1889.    May 6.    ...   At this moment I believe Auwers is
somewhere between the Bay of Biscay and Madeira, on his
way to the Cape.         I wish that you were with him — what a
rare time we should have together. . . . When they [the
Sappho observations] are over I shall have surely earned my
proposed holiday in 1890. There is the definitive meeting
of the permanent committee of the Astrographic Congress
which I must attend — but I also want some fun — for I have
been close at work for 10 years now.           According to this we
are both intent on kicking our heels and having a roll on the
grass about the same time.
    1889.    3 July.    I am happy to tell you that on the morn
ing of   28th   June  we   had glorious weather and Auwers and     I
measured yr Eclipse for you, I hope more completely than
ever an eclipse has been measured before. . . .
   Auwers is a charming guest — a man I have known well and
esteemed among my best friends since I came to know him in
1873.     But the more I see him the more I know and love him —
and am only beginning to realize what a truly splendid fellow
he is.    I would that you were here.
    1889.   October 7.   . . . My good friend Auwers is gone, and
I  am left alone with Sappho.      . . . And so the fair Barbarian 1
              1 Professor Newcomb's daughter.   See p. 149.

                   PROFESSOR            NEWCOMB                   379
is a mother — and all goes well — God bless her. . . . Auwers
is a devoted admirer of the F. B. so I long even more than
 formerly to meet her face to face.
    1890.   Jan.   21.    [After criticizing Newcomb's published
 judgment, and stating his       own, about Transits of Venus and
Solar Parallax.] Now my          good friend — there I am — do you
go for me — You have my          thesis — or at least I have I think
sufficiently attacked yours      to set the ball a rolling.
               Let's first shake hands before we box
                Then give each other friendly knocks
              With all the love and kindness of a brother.
   1891.   Jan.   14.
                         My dear Newcomb, — First of all my
most warm and sincere congratulations           on the honour which
our Royal Society has done itself, by conferring on you the
highest scientific distinction which it is in the power of
scientific England to bestow. The Copley Medal is fortun
ately one of those distinctions which have been preserved
worthy and pure by an honourable body of competent judg
ment, and desirous to honour only those who are worthy of
honour.     It is a prize which one may hand down to one's
children with pardonable pride — an heirloom that they will
cherish reverently if they are worthy children of their worthy
Father.
    1892.   May 14. . . . Did I tell you, they asked me to go
to Cambridge — but I felt that my proper work is here. . . .
You are a heavy task master however for I am toiling away
observing every evening and early morning to try to get you
a reliable value of the Aberration Constant.
    1894.   May 30.    ...    I have, I think, only one enemy in
the world ; but he has been giving me a lot of trouble. Having
failed to make more mischief at the Admiralty, he got at the
Treasury. . . . You can therefore imagine what a boon your
letter acknowledging the Victoria and Sappho work was. I
sent a copy to the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty who
I think will be glad to have it as a weapon to use in the fight
with the Treasury.
            To the Secretary of the Admiralty
                       Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                                       1894, May 23.
   Sir, — In my letter of     1894, March 21, I had the honour to
report the value of the Solar Parallax and of the Mass of the
Moon (resulting from the observations of Victoria and Sappho)
for use in the Nautical Almanac.

38o           LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
   At the same time I forwarded these results, with further
details, to Professor Newcomb, and I have now the honour
to transmit a copy of his reply in the hope that my Lords
Commissioners of the Admiralty may be pleased to know the
estimation in which these results are held by the chief living
authority on such subjects. In connection with this latter
remark I should perhaps explain that Prof. Simon Newcomb
is now bringing to completion the work on which, with the
aid of a large staff of able mathematicians, he has been en
gaged for the past 15 years.      That work embraces a complete
theory of the motions of the members of the Solar System,
a re-discussion of all the existing observations of these bodies,
and new tables of their motions.
   Thus Newcomb's Tables will supersede all others in point
of accuracy and must be adopted for use during the next
50 years at least, in our own Nautical Almanac as well as in
all other Nautical Ephemerides.
   My Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty will thus be
in a position to estimate the value of the service performed at
the Cape Observatory in a matter so intimately connected
with the purposes for which the Observatories at Greenwich
and the Cape were founded and are maintained,
                          I am, etc.,               David Gill.
   Further papers on the same subject are forwarded to the
Hydrographer.
                         Newcomb to Gill
              Nautical Almanac Office, Naval Observatory,
                        Georgetown Heights, D.C., April 23, 1894.
   My dear Dr. Gill, — I have received the definitive results
for the solar parallax, as derived from the observations of
 Victoria and Sappho, enclosed in your letter of Mar. 21st.
    I must congratulate you on the unequalled precision reached
by these observations.        That the system which you have
devised may      be  applied  to determining the positions of the
 planets with a precision heretofore unthought of, has recently
 been pointed out in a number of the Astronomical Journal
 which I am glad to know you have seen.
   The observations which can be used in forming the new
 tables of the four inner planets being now closed up, I beg
leave to express my personal and official appreciation of the
 observations and results which the Cape Observatory has
 contributed to the work in question.      I find that out of 1,036
 observations   of  Mercury, made during the years 1884 to 1892,
 inclusive, no less than 532, or a little more than one-half, were
 made at the Cape of Good Hope.           Of course, such a result
 was possible only through your fine climate and favourable

                  PROFESSOR        NEWCOMB                   381
geographical situation ; but these circumstances would not
have sufficed without the ardor of the astronomer.        In my
last annual report I expressed my official indebtedness to
you, and I hope that in my next one the substantial com
pletion of the work on which I have been officially engaged
for more than fifteen years will afford an occasion for a more
complete statement of the indebtedness of the American
Nautical Almanac Office to Her Majesty's observer at the
Cape, for observations and results of the greatest value,
   Yours very sincerely,                   Simon Newcomb.
   From the Secretary to the Admiralty to Dr. Gill
                                Admiralty, S.W., June 30, 1894.
   Sir, — In acknowledging the receipt of your letter of     23rd
of May    I am commanded by My Lords Commissioners of the
Admiralty to convey to you an expression of their satisfaction
at the valuable results of your labours which have been of
much use in compiling the Nautical Almanac and have
tended greatly to the advancement of gravitational astronomy.
    I am, sir, your obed* servant,       Evan MacGregor.
    1894. July 17.   I am delighted to hear that action is being
taken to put a real astronomer at the head of the new Naval
Observatory at Washington — a man responsible for the work
of the Establishment.
   The thing that has bothered me is why, when they have got
a man like you in America, they don't put you at the head of
its astronomy.     The absolute power put in the hands of a
Naval Officer as Superintendent is quite ridiculous.
    I thought he was a pleasant sort of gentleman who signed
receipts for books and many papers and so on — who smoked
cigarettes with visitors to the Observatory and otherwise
did the ornamental duties of the office, and wore a uniform
occasionally as a figure head. But as the only adviser — that
 is absurd indeed !     There is only one way to put matters
straight — and that is to put the Astronomers in command of
the American fleet.     I think you and I would make quite as
good a job of the command of a fleet as the Admirals would
of the real command of an observatory — perhaps better.         I
shall be anxious to hear the result.
    Both Gill's work and Newcomb's came in for closely
reasoned arguments on both sides, each anxious only to have
the point at issue thoroughly threshed out, and the truth
                They certainly
                                  "
established.                        gave each other friendly
 knocks with all the love and kindness of a brother." The

 382          LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
very phraseology indicates this spirit, as when Gill answers
 a letter thus —
    1895. Dec.  17. . . . But there is a still more curious fact,
viz. that there is a celebrated       and phenomenally active
astronomer in America [Newcomb], who having put all the
 Solar System in order is now engaged in drilling the stars —
and bringing all our practical work into a systematic whole.
   But this good gentleman is so busy that it is quite im
possible for him to find time to read the introductions to works
which he utilizes — but he finds time to find out faults in them,
and to make surprising discoveries all of wliich are contained
in the introductions to the works in question.
   I believe you know this gentleman, and I would ask you to
do what I have not the courage to do, to play the part of the
candid friend — and put him right — and do impress on him how
desirable it is to read the introductions.
   The fact is that Newcomb had committed the blunder of
assuming that Gill's catalogue for epoch 1885-0 included
corrections for proper motion, though the introduction dis
tinctly states the contrary.       Thus he found a difference
between Gill's Declination of Arcturus (mean epoch of observa
tion 188212) and Boss' amounting to 3" due, of course, to
proper motion.
   1895. Dec. 31.
                     My dear    Newcomb, — Yr letters are never
a nuisance, always a delight.    A Happy New Year to you and
many of them (new years and letters too).
   Gill's correspondence with Newcomb from 1895 onwards
is mostly technical, relating to Newcomb's          fundamental
work.
   1897. Dec.   26.   My dear Newcomb, — The matter of our
correspondence seems to have fallen into the condition of
affairs so graphically described by the Governor of North
Carolina in his opening remarks to the Governor of South
Carolina.    I would hope the matter is going to right itself.
We have both been abnormally busy. . . .
   I am thankful to tell you that Mrs. Gill is much better —
this is her birthday, and a very happy one it has been.
   She joins me in all good wishes of the season to you and
yrs. May the new year be a happy one for you, and may
your great work prosper in it. . . .
   P.S. Yr letter of Nov. 29 . . . just come in as mail goes. . . .
So glad to see yr writing again.

                    PROFESSOR          NEWCOMB                    383
     1898.   March 24.   My dear Newcomb,— I also am at a
loss to understand the howl of your compatriots against
the Paris Conference resolutions A— , with B— and C —yelping
behind like poodle dogs in the rear of the pack.            The one
point about which there is a show of reason is the Aberration
constant. . . .
     I didn't expect many people to go to the bottom of the
 [solar] parallax volumes
                             — but of the few I did think you
would be one. I wish you could find time to devote two or
three evenings to them, and then write me as sharp a criticism
of them      as you can.
    The new McClean telescope sailed a week ago from Liver
 pool. We are off to-morrow to the hills for 10 days or so,
 returning in time to meet the new baby on its arrival.
     1898. May 3. The mail just arrived brings a splendid-
 looking document — to certify that I have been elected an
 hony member of the New York Academy of Sciences. . . .
 It offers another inducement for me to visit America— were
 it possible to find one to mention beside yr long and often
 repeated invitations.
     If I can, I must and will come to America in 1900 —not for
 the eclipse so much as to see you all.
     1898.   June 15. I have just received a letter from Professor
  Agassiz   informing me of my election as a Foreign Member of
  the National Academy of Sciences, Washington.           ...    I do
  not conceal   from myself  the  fact that your partiality  has  had
  more to do with this election than any work that I have
  done.   ...   I hope you will mention to those astronomers
  who are Members of the Academy how deeply I feel this mark
  of their esteem, friendship and good will.
     1898. Sept. 19.   ... I   have some young men now who
  are doing active Heliometer work.       My eyes are not so good
  as they used to be.    ...   I  don't think I told you about it
  [his new Transit Circle].     It is somewhat a new departure.
  The whole stand is iron — so are the cube, tubes, etc. — the
  micrometer boxes are cast iron, the slides and screws steel.
     The pillars are hollow cast iron and filled with water — to
  ensure layers of equal temperature.       They are covered with
  thick non-conducting      material and covered outside with
  polished copper.
     The circles are solid cast iron discs, divisions on iridio-
  platinum — and are surrounded with double screens of copper
  with air-space. These covers attached to the pier. The
  turned cast iron tubes are also surrounded with double copper
  shields with air spaces [these shields attached only to the

384           LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
cube], to ensure equal distribution of temperature. [Sketches
show how the Observatory rolls back in halves, leaving a
6 ft. opening on the meridian.]
   The instrument is, of course, reversible, and has meridian
marks N and S in the focus of lenses of 300 ft. focal length.
          Jan.  28.    We had the great pleasure of seeing Prof.
   1899.
Agassiz   here  the   other  day at lunch.   ...   So glad you are
pleased   with  the   C.P.D.    Kapteyn   is a grand fellow and a
grand worker.
   1899. April 13.      Next week I am going up to Rhodesia
for a month to start the reconnaissance and beaconing, along
the 30th meridian. . . . McClean is quite right about oxygen
in the spectra of /3 Crucis, /3 Centauri, /3 Can. Maj. and we
find it in c Orionis.      We are getting fine results for motion
in line of sight.
   1899. August 23.      It would gratify me to see a total eclipse
before I die — and I should enjoy it — but I don't think I shd
work at it.   ...    I am so glad you are going to see Kapteyn.
Unless I am very much mistaken you will find him a man after
your own heart. He is not only a very accomplished man of
high aims and indomitable pluck, but he has a very fine
character, and is a most sterling good fellow. . . .
   My dear wife has been ill again. Mrs. Cunliffe [the late
Lord Herschell's sister] who had been like a mother and
sister to her for 20 years — who nursed her during a great part
of our last visit to England — and who for 20 years, when she
was not with us, never missed a mail in writing — died suddenly
at Oxford.
   You will find Kapteyn very happy in the completion of
the Durchmusterung.         I am quite ashamed to find my name
on the title page of a work with his, for my share in it is so
small compared with his.         ...  I do not believe that ever
was so big a piece of work published with so few errors.
   1900.  Jan.   18. —The war     keeps us in a terrible state of
nerve-tension, so that it     requires a great effort to keep one's
mind fixed on ordinary         work.   Like every third man one
meets I am an amateur General — can't help it. . . . We have
a cavalry and horse artillery camp just under the Observatory
windows, and many an old friend I have seen there on the way
to the front — some of whom I shall, alas, never see again.
   1900.  May 31. London. — Both medals — the Watson and
the Bruce — have reached me — and have apparently so im
pressed the Admiralty that on the Queen's Birthday I was
gazetted K.C.B. . . . You see what frightful consequences
have followed your over generous appreciation of my work !

                    PROFESSOR           NEWCOMB                 385
     1901. Jan.   18.   McClean remarks that wherever you find
 a bright Helium-spectrum star, you get a large quantity of the
 same type in the neighbourhood. . . . All the brighter stars
 of Orion seem to be type I. stars except a— and all included
 in one great nebula. . . . For wholesale parallax work
 photography is the thing — but for bright stars and these small
 parallaxes only the Heliometer is suitable. . . .
    Our new Transit Circle will be here in a few days. [The
 letter goes on to describe his underground meridian mark
 device.]
    1901. March 29.       Newcomb to Gill.       ...  At all events
 it seems that you have not yet abandoned telescopes for
 fire-arms.
    I hope Roberts [Dr. Roberts of Lovedale, not Lord Roberts]
 is equally fortunate.      Looking up his location on the map I
 see that it falls very near the region of a recent raid and I
 wonder whether his splendid work on variable stars is going
 to be interfered with.       ...   I shall look with the greatest
 interest for the trial of your new circle.
            July          I   do   not know what to attribute
    1901.          30.
 Christie's action to    ....    I should be greatly obliged if you
 would carefully consider the whole matter and give me your
 opinion.   ...   I am glad to hear you think so well of the
 Jupiter work. [This letter is accompanied by copy of his
 unanswerable criticism (for the Admiralty) of Mr. Christie's
 objections to the meridian marks proposed for the Cape
 Observatory.      He summarizes some conclusions in his report
 in these words :      "I   further venture to express my belief
 that, in consequence of the depth below the surface of the
ground and the age, thickness, extent and uniformity of the
 bed-rock, the proposed system of meridian marks will, if
carried out, prove to be the most stable of any that has
yet been erected at any Observatory in the world."             Gill's
arguments      fortunately    prevailed  at the Admiralty,  and  his
belief, as stated above, has been entirely corroborated by the
result.]
    1902. July 26.     ...   I don't know if you share my tastes
for military strategy and tactics — to me the whole thing was
intensely interesting    — but a shocking instance of the entire
lack of military genius on part of our Generals — and a grand
instance of pluck on part of Tommy Atkins.
    1904. Jan. 22.     ...   I think you would be very much
interested, if you were here just now, to see the new Sidereal
       cc

386           LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
Clock, which I have been erecting and experimenting with.      . . .
We sail for England on the 9th March.
   1905. March 24. . . . No small part of my time is occupied
with the approaching visit of the British Association to South
Africa.
   I do wish you could come here.
   1905.  May   26.    I cannot tell you how much   I regret that
you cannot come.
   1906. March 26.       By last mail I sent in my application to
the Admiralty for leave to retire from my present post in
October next. . . . My doctor advises me not to spend
another summer at the Cape.
   1907.  March    19.   London. . . . Miss Clerke as a woman,
a friend and a historian and original thinker in matters
astronomical, has been a terrible loss.     We loved her dearly.
Her poor brother is left alone, so terribly alone. His case
is a most pathetic one.
   1908. Feb. 12.      I have got the arc of meridian started at
the northern end of Lake Tanganyika . . . and Lyons is
pushing it southwards from Alexandria. So I may yet live
to see it through.
    1909. Jan. 13.     My wife and I are very much concerned to
hear that you have to undergo an operation.
                34 De Verb Gardens, Kensington, 1909, May 31.
   My dear Newcomb, — I have been a very bad correspondent
of late. I heard you had been very ill, and I did not know
if I might bother you with letters.
    You have doubtless heard that the Fair Barbarian is a
reality— we have actually got a glimpse of her — just enough
to assure me that she is a reality — for luck has always been
against our meeting.
   The moment I got to Paris, or rather the first thing I did
on the morning after our arrival there the previous night,
was to go to the Rue de Fosses St.- Jacques, in search of
Mrs. McGee, to find that the bird had flown to Switzerland,
leaving behind to represent her a charming daughter and a
little son who is a minor edition of Simon Newcomb.        I fancy
 just exactly like what you were at his age. All this took
place on the 23rd March — and then my time was much filled
           "
Tip with     Weights and Measures."      We left Paris on the 1st
 April and spent a fortnight at Portofino (about 25 miles
 southward along the coast from Genoa) — where we had a

                    PROFESSOR            KAPTEYN                      387
  perfect time as guests of our old friend, the Dow : Lady Car
 narvon — (her husband was Colonial Sec* in Lord Derby's
 Gov* and he was long Pres. of the Society of Antiquaries).
    I ran up to Rome for two days to see St. Peters at Easter
 and get a glimpse of the Eternal City.
    We returned, after a day in Genoa, to Paris, on the morning
 of the 17th April — and had a very busy and interesting week
 there — over the Carte du del business — chiefly in connection
 with the Catalogue.
    I think you will be interested to read the account of the
 meeting which I wrote for Nature (unsigned).
    We got another peep at Miss McGee at lunch one day —
 and at the Observatory reception — but still no F.B. — and
 indeed, we only just got a flying peep at her on her way
 passing through London, which finally convinced me of her
objective existence — though spiritually we are old friends.
 We had a great talk about you, and much do I wish the
accounts of yr health had been better.
    We both love you well, that is certain — and there were a
thousand things we might have talked about if we had more
time — as it was I think we didn't lose much of the short time
at our disposal.
    I have got the great itinerary you prepared for me —but I
think I must leave Canada out, and just arrange to leave my
wife quietly somewhere in the East whilst I run to Lick and
 Mount Wilson. My wife has no fears as to a sea trip — but
she is a very bad traveller by railway — a journey of 200 or
300 miles knocks her up for days.               So I have to be very
careful about her.
    She joins me in loving remembrances to you and yours.
         Ever thine,                                    David Gill.
    Professor Simon Newcomb died in            July  1909.
                      Letters to Kapteyn
   The first letter written by         Gill to, and preserved by,
 Professor Kapteyn.
                      Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope,
                                                    1884, September 27.
   My dear Sir, — Your kind letter of the 30th April has
remained thus long unanswered because of my absence in
England. . . . Absorbing work in England prevented me till
a few days ago from reading your paper in Copernicus.1
                  1
                    Copernicus, vol. iii, pp. 147-182.

 388            LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
     I shall certainly give your method of determining a funda
 mental latitude a good trial. . . . [The letter proceeds to
 extol his great 3-foot theodolite, just acquired;           also his
 delicate precautions, in measuring the maximum elongation
 in azimuth of a star, by which he hopes to eliminate systematic
 error.]
     1885. January 18.      [In this letter minute details are given
 for applying Kapteyn's method as so to avoid systematic
 error. There are many letters in 1885 on this subject.] . . .
 But however perfect an instrument may be (and it is the
 astronomer's business to see that it is perfect) it is the astro
 nomer's further business to look upon it with complete and
 utter mistrust.
    The above letters contain evidence how the devoted friend
 ship between these two astronomers arose out of mutual
 appreciation of the qualities required for the attainment of
the most refined practical results. Then came the incidents
connected with the C.P.D. related in the narrative part of
this book.      Then hundreds of letters follow in regard to their
common work, full of technical matter.           A very few extracts
alone can be given here to show the growth of feeling, on the
 part of each, from scientific appreciation to affectionate devo
tion.    All these letters are from the Cape, unless otherwise
stated.
    1886. Jan. 9.      My dear Sir, — Such a letter as yours of
Decr 16 requires an immediate answer — I refer of course to
its concluding portion in which you offer some years of your
life to co-operation with me in cataloguing the photographic
Durchmusterung of the Southern Heavens.
    It is not easy to tell you what       I feel at receiving such a
proposal.      I recognize in it the true brotherhood of science
and in you a true brother.          [The letter, 13 quarto pages,
goes   on  to  discuss  plans of working.     The same subject fills
most of the correspondence with Professor Kapteyn for many
years.]
    1886. Jan. 22.      My dear Sir, — Your delightful letter of
the 23rd Decr makes full amends for the disappointment I
felt at not receiving your promised letter by last mail. . . .
             I
   I wish knew you personally — I do know you, I think,
pretty well — but I wish you would send me your photograph —
I send you mine.
   [On the 16th June, 1886, he encloses copy of a valuable

                    PROFESSOR         KAPTEYN                   389
 letter he wrote to Professor Stokes about the opposition in a
 certain quarter to support of the C.P.D. by funds administered
 by the Royal Society.]
                      216 Union Street, Aberdeen, March  29, 1887.
    My dear Kapteyn,        ...  I feel quite ashamed at being so
 long in answering the very satisfactory and delightful letter
 which I received from you at Paris.        I think I am sufficient
 judge of character to find out what manner of man you were
during the happy days that we spent together.
    Still it is very pleasant to be assured in plain English, and
in the manly terms which you employ, yr fixed resolution to
stick to the work you have undertaken, through thick and
thin — and that, having put your hand to the plough, no con
sideration will move you from the work you have begun —
and no temptation can cause you to turn back from it.
    If you enjoyed my visit — no less I assure you, did I enjoy
mine. Your happy family life, our common interests and the,
to me, very interesting chats we had together, make a very
bright spot in my visit to Europe.
    At this date there are many letters recounting the miserable
spirit of attacks against the C.P.D. , the pecuniary support
offered by the Berlin Academy to the C.P.D., the indignation
expressed to the Greenwich Board of Visitors by Adams, the
support of the C.P.D. by members of the Paris Congress, the
letter from Auwers on the astronomical necessity of the C.P.D.,
printed, circulated and supported by Stokes, and the final
determination of Dr. and Mrs. Gill to introduce domestic
economies at the Cape (among others, Mrs. Gill giving up her
carriage), so that they might defray the cost at their own
expense.
   A great deal of correspondence passed between these two
 about the Astrographic Chart and Catalogue.            Naturally,
their unique experience in photographing and measuring the
plates for a catalogue, possessed by no other astronomer,
led the permanent committee to rely upon their advice on
many points.       The responsibility thus thrown mainly upon
Gill led to preparatory discussions by correspondence which
would occupy too much space to insert here. It is astonishing
how much designing and inventing resulted.
   1890. Sept.    29.
                        My dear Kapteyn, — You already have
my congratulations       about the parallactic  micrometer.   So   I

39o           LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
need say no more about the matter — except that you are not
quite so mad with delight as         I should have been.
    1891.  June   6.   London. — Have you read Pickering's paper
in No. 3025 of the A si. Nach. ? There you will find that the
brighter stars of the Milky Way are all stars of the Sirius
type, i. e. very white stars, very rich in photographic rays,
and therefore the photographic diameters in our Durch-
musterung plates show that this is also true for the fainter
stars — that, in fact, the stars in the Milky Way are chemi
cally different — or rather in an earlier stage of stellar evolu
tion than the stars in the rest of the sky.          It is a supremely
interesting fact worthy of the fullest discussion.
    1892. March 29.         The Victoria and Sappho reductions
which are immensely complex and laborious occupy most of
the time, and I have been working at them early and late, for
I am most desirous to reach the result by the end of this year,
in order that Newcomb may include the result in his new
discussion of Astronomical constants.
    1892. July 6. The mail has just      "
                                               arrived bringing your
 welcome letter with the jubilant          finished."    There remains
 only now time before this letter must be posted to say how
 delighted I am to hear the good news and how sincerely               I
 congratulate you.        I, too, have just finished a long job —
 the discussion of the Triangulation of the Victoria comparison
 stars.
     1893. Nov. 20.      The defects of the parallactic instrument
 which you describe are precisely those which I wd have antici
 pated — viz. the effect of the slow motion in R.A. in changing
 the Declination.       It was precisely this error in nearly all
 Equatoreals   which    made   the Victoria and Sappho observations
 in 1882 (Galle's method) abortive.
     1894. Sept.   11.   What a pleasure your kind, manly and
 sympathetic     letter was.   . . .
     I am not going just now to write you about all the troubles
  I have had in the past. It is sufficient to say that a deliberate
 attempt was made to hand over the Observatory to the Cape
  Gov' — which would have been equivalent to its extinction —
 and the appointment of a successor to George Maclear (one of
 my assistants who had retired) was refused —in consequence
  of statements made to the Treasury that I had been neglecting
 my proper duties and been observing minor planets and other
  pursuits on my own account.           Fortunately, Newcomb wrote
 me a letter acknowledging in strong terms the value of the
 Cape work to the American Ephemeris — which gave the lie

                   PROFESSOR        KAPTEYN                   391
 direct to my false accusers, and ended in my getting a warm
official letter of thanks from the Admiralty for these very
services.
    . . . and last mail  brought me a letter which has fairly
taken away my breath.
    Mr. Frank McClean writes to say that he is desirous of
 presenting a large telescope to the Cape Observatory, for
 astro-photo, and spectroscopic work. . . .
    I can hardly doubt that the Admiralty will accept such a
splendid offer in the same spirit in which it has been made.
    1895. April 9.   I have no words to express my delight and
satisfaction in your work, nor my sense of the value of the
great service you have rendered to astronomy by this work.
 ...    It is a great satisfaction to me to think — on no less
authority than that of your dear wife — that the Durch-
musterung has not been over much work for you.           I mean
that you are physically and mentally better and not worse for
your labours. . . . Above all, I rejoice in the true friend I
have found in you — may that friendship ever grow with our
years.
    1898. Feb. 23.   I am very glad that you are pleased with
the Cape Annals, Vols. VI and VII. [Solar Parallax.] I do
think you have described its leading feature — viz. the reality —
or at least the earnest endeavour to seek out the reality —
of the results, and the reality of the probable errors, and to
hunt out all sources of systematic error. That has been my
main endeavour, and I am very pleased that you think I
have succeeded.
    1899. April 6.   A thousand heartiest congratulations on
the completion of the Durchmusterung         Catalogue.    What
a load off your weary shoulders ! How splendidly you have
redeemed the promise you made me in 1884, and how thor
oughly you have done your great work ! It will ever remain
a standing memorial of yr devotion to Science, yr earnestness
of purpose and yr wonderful working capacity. . . .
   De Sitter is going on with the parallax of the big proper
motion star and his photometer work, and making good pro
gress with the reduction of the Jupiter Satellite Heliometer
observations.    He seems very happy in his married life, and
his wife acts as clerk to him in his observing.
   1902. Jan. 29.    I am so glad to find that the grant of the
medal [Gold Medal, R.A.S.] has been duly confirmed and
that it gives you such satisfaction.
   You are quite right when you say that the most valuable
part of these recognitions is the weight which they give to

392            LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
one's recommendations and the leverage they give in procuring
additional funds for research.
    1905. October 18.    ...   I have a letter dated November 6th
from my old Chief Lord Crawford to say that he was sailing
that day in his yacht, the Valhalla, for the Cape via Tristan
d'Acunha and neighbouring islands where he was to hunt for
"                     " for the British Museum. He
   Birds and Bugs                                       expected to
arrive in about 2 months so he may drop in any day.            I am
looking forward with immense interest to showing him the
Cape Observatory.
    After Sir David Gill retired to London his correspondence
with Professor Kapteyn became even more continuous than
in the previous twenty years, and their meetings were more
frequent.     The following letters are all dated from De Vere
Gardens unless otherwise stated.           Kapteyn's theories and
deductions became one of Gill's greatest interests.
    1907. Dec. 10.    ...    I have a most troublesome set of
lectures to deliver at the R1 Institution.
    I undertook it for the sake of " filthy lucre " — and only set
about the preparation a few days ago.
    1908.  April  14.    I was so glad to hear some time ago that
you are     going to lecture at the Royal Institution on the
 22nd May, and my wife wrote to Mrs. Kapteyn to say that
 we hoped you would both be able to come to England and
 stay with us.
    1908. April 29.       I wrote Dyson asking him to come up
 from Edinburgh when you come, or rather, asking if he could
 manage it. He is delighted.       ...   He will meet you at dinner
on the 23rd May.         I am writing "to Eddington to "ask him to
 come also.     So we shall have a       star-streaming   dinner.
    1911.  July  3. .  .  . We have been all coronation mad here.
 Now it is all happily over — a marvel of organization and,
 thank God, free from accidents or misfortunes of any kind.
 On the Thursday I was in Westminster Abbey — a wonderful
 experience. On the Friday I watched the procession from
 the Athenaeum, and on Saturday went to the Naval Review
 as an Admiralty guest. I had the good fortune to be with
 Sir Philip Watts (Chief Constructor of the Navy) whilst we
 sailed through the fleet — so I got from him the history of all
 the different types of ships and the reasons for the successive
 changes of type.      To-day I have been at Cambridge with the
 Geodetic Comparateurs for India — and at a meeting with

                  PROFESSOR         KAPTEYN                   393
Dyson, Newall, Darwin, Larmor, as a joint committee of the
R1 Society and R.A.S. to consider the future work and staff
of the Nautical Almanac Office.
               34 De Vere Gardens, Kensington, April   17, 1912.
   My dear Kapteyn, . . . My time has been a great deal
taken up in connection with the plans for the telescope and
dome for Santiago; with an apparatus for determining the
temperature coefficient and absolute lengths of Geodetic
bars for the Survey of India and experiments with the com
pleted apparatus mounted in London ; final details about the
mounting of the Johannesburg telescope, etc., etc.
   Besides that I have undertaken the Presidency of the
Research Defence Society in succession to Lord Cromer who
has just retired from it. Perhaps you do not know that, in
this country, there are 13 anti-vivisection societies which are
doing their best to prevent research involving vivisection,
and they are supported with very large funds subscribed by
all the nervous old and young women who keep pet lap dogs
and think they are more valuable than the lives of human
beings. Of course, we have all the intelligence of the country
on our side1 and we have to do our best to defend honest
research against the attacks of the large body of ignorant
people who have votes, and the politician only cares for votes,
so that there is always danger of such restriction being imposed
by law as to render effective research impossible.      But I am
getting into quite a long letter about matters which do not
directly concern you.
   I am sorry to say that we are no further advanced than
before with getting optical glass for the Santiago and Johannes
burg telescopes; Grubb has ordered duplicate discs from
Chance.    I am going down to Birmingham next week to see
them and I moved and carried unanimously at the annual
meeting of the Directors of the National Physical Laboratory
a motion that the Laboratory should take steps in co-opera
tion with the great glass manufacturers to institute experi
ments for the improvement of optical glass and its production.
   We are expecting Backlund in London early in July about
his new equatoreal for Nikolaieff and his reflector for Semeis,
and he will at the same time attend the celebration of the
250th Anniversary of the Foundation of the Royal Society
of London.
   Most of the time I can spare for other things has been given
to the completion of the History of the Cape Observatory, the
description of which, as you know, is printed, awaiting
                            1
                              Cf. p. 328.

 394           LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
 the history as its introduction. I had hoped to complete the
 History in 20 pages (each page about equal to 4 of an ordinary
 book) but    I have already got to 100 and am not finished,
 and I do not think there is a word of it that will not be interest
 ing to Astronomers, although, of course, they know something
 about it already.     I have been in correspondence with De
 Sitter in connection with the part referring to Jupiter's
 Satellites and I am adding to that chapter a programme of
 the observations necessary for the next ten years to complete
 the data for a thorough determination of the libration and
 other constants of a new theory. . . .
    I shall be greatly interested to hear the outcome of your
 researches on the helium stars.     I envy you in the great field
 of research which you have on hand.          I find myself, as     I
 explained to you, thrown by force of circumstances into quite
 another direction of work, but I hope not a useless one.
    When are you coming to London on your way to
 America? . . .
    Our love to you and yours.      Ever thine,     David Gill.
    1912. May 12. . . . It will be such a joy to see you and
 Mrs. Kapteyn. . . . Yes, indeed — we, too, were full of the
terrible business of the Titanic. We had only one friend on
board — Lady Rothes — mercifully she was saved — and indeed
behaved quite heroically. . . .
    Eddington is, I think, the soundest man we have in England
on things cosmical.
    1013.  June  5.
                    My dear Kapteyn, — I        am inviting Dyson,
Eddington, Chapman, Hills (President R.A.S.), Pickering,
Hough, and Rambaut to meet you on the afternoon of the
17th instant at 3 o'clock.       Kindly tell me if there are any
others you would wish present. Yours ever, David Gill.
   1913. October 31.     A little post card from your wife to
mine tells me that you are once more back on this side of the
Atlantic, and so I am sending you a copy of my History and
Description of the Cape Observatory. . . .
   We had a delightful holiday; from July 16 to August 9
in Wales, and then until September 25th at Pitlochne, in
Perthshire, whence my wife returned to London, and I went
for some deer-stalking in Argyllshire till October 1. I got a
fine stag one day, but had two blank days. The season was
a late one, so that the big stags had not come down from the
very high mountains to the ground, only 2000 ft. above the
sea, on which I was stalking; but I had a rare good time,
glorious weather, and enjoyed myself hugely.
   I am looking forward to the receipt of a letter from you
with great interest.

                         PROFESSOR         HALE                  395
         Letters to Professor           G. E. Hale (U.S.A.)
   All of the following letters to G. E. Hale are dated from
34 De Vere Gardens, Kensington.
   1909. Jan. 5.      ...      I am looking forward very much to
Kapteyn's arrival in the hope of hearing all about the wonders
of your observatory, and the results of his talks with you.
   I have not been very well since the beginning of October —
not seriously ill, but out of sorts, and only able to do the
things most pressing, and these seem to be continuous —
committees, lectures. Council meetings, surveys, a couple of
books on the stocks, etc., etc. . . .
   About coming to America next year. My wife is a very bad
traveller by railway. A considerable railway journey — say
10 or 12 hours — knocks her up for at least a week — a few such
would have the most serious results — and we are a very Darby
and Joan old couple who like to be together as much as
possible. . . .
   This year also I have to attend the Committee of the
International Bureau of Weights and Measures at Paris,
March 21 — Apr. 1, and the Astrographic Congress, Ap. 19-24.
Between the two we think of going to Italy which we have
never seen. . . .
   1909.   Jan.   19.     Kapteyn writes that there is a possibility
of    your coming        to    Paris for the Astrographic meeting,
April 19-24. This is glorious news. . . .
   Newcomb writes me that he was on the point of undergoing
 an operation — and, tho' he speaks lightly of it I am very
anxious about the result.
    1909. Aug. 11.       ...    I have just been asked to look after
 the construction of a 26 inch refractor of 36 feet focus for
 Innes at the Cape. The Transvaal Gov' has voted the
 money.
    1909. Oct.    26.  .   . .  Dear old Vogel once said to me at
             "
 Potsdam,      My dear Gill, if you loaf me send me some peetels
                                 " — Now, if
 (beetles) from de Cape                      you love me, send me
 some slides.
    1910.   April   7.     On May 20 I have promised to give a
                                                                " The
 Friday evening lecture at the Royal Institution on
                         "
 Sidereal Universe — and I want to bring together the facts
 that have been recently determined.
                       "
                                              I. I wish very specially
 to illustrate how the light of the great nebula in Andromeda
 and of 3 star-clusters has been shown photographically to

396           LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
contain a larger proportion of the less refrangible rays than
the light of stars of the same spectral type."         [He adds 3
more points he wants to illustrate by work done with Hale's
60-inch reflector.]
   Amongst other things        I   wish to make an appeal for
funds to start a large reflector in the Southern Hemisphere,
by showing what you are doing at Mount Wilson. I hear
that some of the wealthy men in Johannesburg are likely to
respond.
   1910. May 15. . . . The death of our beloved King has
thrown the country into the deepest gloom. . . . We had such
a terribly sad meeting at the R.A.S. on Friday.       We did none
of the usual business, but simply passed, in silence, the
motions of sympathy and congratulation to the King, and of
condolence with the Queen Mother and Lady Huggins.
   Huggins' death was terribly sudden. Just one week before
his death he attended a meeting of a joint committee of the
Royal Soc. and R.A.S.        ...   He passed away quietly full of
years and honour — and I am afraid we are not likely to see
his like again.    He has been a true friend to me for 47 years
. . . the sad state of     my wife's health, which Kapteyn will
tell you all   about,   is such that I dare not go to the Solar
Congress.
   It is a very bitter disappointment to me, but there are
things dearer to a man than any congress, any gratification
of friendship or the desire to see and know. . . .
   I have such a deep interest in your work, in Pickering's,
in that going on at Mount Hamilton and at the Yerkes Ob
servatory — I have so many kind colleagues and friends in
America that I desire to see — all these things are very hard
to give up.
   1910. Nov. 26.     [This is a long and searching criticism of a
proposed design for the 100-inch reflector, and his own sugges
tions.   In an endorsement, G. E. Hale fully concurs.         The
subject is discussed, after careful consideration of working
drawings, in a letter 1911. Feb. 28.]
   On   April 12, 1911,   Sir David wrote a letter to Hale giving
a full account of his visits to the St. Gobain's Glass Factory
to see what progress was being made with the glass disc for
the great 100-inch mirror.       It is endorsed by G. E. Hale with
this remark :
                 " This letter is one of several which illustrate
how much we owe to Gill in connection with the 100-inch
telescope."    In the letter   he describes the attempt   to make
a disc.

                      PROFESSOR          HALE                    397
   They had actually cast a full-sized disc of 40 centimetres
in thickness and after it had been annealed as far as tem
 perature 55° or 60° Cent. it remained still whole and they
 believed that they had been entirely successful ; but before it
reached the temperature of the outer air it developed a number
of cracks as shown in sketch.         This disc had been cast in a
great   tank — a tank   being   a distinct thing from a pot, a pot
being defined as     a  vessel   which  could  be lifted out of the
furnace and the central parts of the contents poured into the
mould; whereas a tank is fixed, surrounded by a furnace
and the glass allowed to flow into the mould from it.
   After giving technical details of the relative advantages of
 pots and tanks, and the uncertainty of the possibility of
 making a pot large enough to contain the quantity of glass
required for filling a mould 40 centimetres deep from a single
 pot, he says that any such attempt would require about a
year to make the pot and probably at least another year
before all the machinery for lifting and pouring could be con
structed, besides time for experiments and for the very slow
annealing.
   He mentions a suggestion he had made to Mr. Delloye, who
thought it practicable, of a method, founded upon actual
experience, for casting two 20-centimetre discs, polishing
a surface of one plane, the other convex, and moulding them
together at moderate temperature, excluding              air-bubbles
by that process.       He gives details about testing the co
efficients of expansion of the two discs.
   It is a long and very interesting technical letter, showing
intimate knowledge on the subject of glass making such as
is possessed by few astronomers.
   At this period Dr. Hale's health suffered severely during
some years from overwork.
   1911.   April  13.    We came back here from Paris on
Saturday. I enclose letter to you about the 100-inch
telescope question.     Don't read it if you are not up to the
mark.
   191 1. October 21.   ...    I am just running      over to Paris
for a Congress about Nautical Almanacs.
   1912. November 26. . . . About our great friend
                                                             Darwin,
I fear there is no hope of his recovery.        On the morning of
the 13th instant I got a letter from Darwin's married daughter

 398            LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
 to say that her father had been unable to see me, he was
 practically so low that he could not speak and had been almost
 in a comatose condition, on the 12th he had rallied consider
 ably, spoke of me, sent me his love and his good-bye.          On
 the following morning, however, I received a letter from Lady
 Darwin to say that the rally had continued and that he was
anxious to see me, so I went at once to him and had a talk
 with him for about twenty minutes.
    He began by saying that he knew he had only a few days
or perhaps a few weeks to live, but that for him the bitterness
of death was passed and he was content to go, his chief regret
 being that his death would cause his wife so much sorrow.
    He was absolutely and entirely calm, spoke of things
going on in the scientific world, discussed the War,1 the Scene
in the House of Commons on the previous day and even
cracked some jokes on things in general. It was really splendid
to see a man so absolutely tranquil in mind under such
 circumstances.
    After telling me one or two things he wished me to do for
him he bade me quietly good-bye, and I fear I shall never
see him again, but he still continues to linger on, the process
of exhaustion being apparently slower than was anticipated.
    I shall lose in him one of my best and most trusted friends.
    I am greatly interested in the accounts you give of your
experiences with the 100 inch disc.       ...   I am distinctly of
opinion    that  a perfect disc of about 20  centimetres thickness
would be sufficient for your purpose if mounted with the very
beautiful means of support which are described in the account
of the 60 inch.
    The getting of glass is a universal trouble just now, I mean
not, of course, so much for reflectors (at least, up to the size
of 60') but for refractors of any size above 18 inches. We
have waited now nearly three years in the hope of getting
26 inch discs for the Johannesburg telescope.           I am also
looking after a 24-inch telescope for Ristenpart at Santiago
[Chile] and a 32-inch for Nicolaieff, and all that it is possible
to do is to encourage Messrs. Chance in every possible way to
do their best. They are now trying pots of 8 times the
cubic capacity of their former pots in the hopes of getting
blocks of uniform glass in the centre of these meltings, and
they are trying to improve their modes of stirring.       I cannot
tell what has happened to the people in Paris and Jena.
They must have lost some old hands who had little secrets
which have died with them or who had more perseverance
or a higher sense of duty in connection with stirring.        I do
not know what it is but the fact remains that nobody seems
                          P The Balkan War.]

                      PROFESSOR         HALE                     399
to be able to get large discs of optical glass in the present day,
and yet not so long ago Mantois was able to provide 36 and
40 inch discs.
   I am trying to get the History and Description of the Cape
Observatory out of hand.        I have been at it for a long time
through many interruptions.
    1913. June 17.      It is good of you to let me know of your
coming.
   I will call about 3.15 at Brown's Hotel on Sunday for a
short crack.    I  know it must not be too long.
   This afternoon Kapteyn, Pickering, Dyson, Eddington,
Russell, Hough, Rambaut, Fowler, Chapman, Schleisinger,
and Hills were here for a palaver of a couple of hours.
    Kapteyn leaves London to-morrow morning with his wife
for Mount Wilson. I am sorry to say my wife is very far
from well. But all news when we meet. My wife joins in
warmest regards.
   The next letter is endorsed from G. E. Hale
                                                           "
                                                       :     My last
letter from   Gill."
    1913. Nov.   1. — I   have written a book, the History and
Description   of  the Cape Observatory.    . . . Dyson    is to dis
tribute it along with the other publications to be sent to
Mount Wilson.
    I do not know that you will find anything new in the book
and yet, though it has cost me a lot of work, I think it is worth
while to put together in one collective history the brief account
of the total contribution of the Cape Observatory to Astro
nomy, and a description of the new instruments which have
been erected under my instructions at the Cape.          ...   I just
 recently returned from Paris, where I had much interesting
communion with our mutual friend Stratton of your Standard
 Department. . . .
    We spent a delightful holiday, first three weeks at Llan-
 drindod, in Wales, where I drank nasty smelling waters and
 played much golf for the benefit of my constitution, busying
 myself in the mornings with work connected with the book
 which I have been writing, and in particular with the forma
 tion of the index which appears at the end of it. Then we
 went on the 9th of August to Pitlochrie, in Perthshire, where
 I still employed the mornings on the index, etc., and in the
 usual matters of correspondence, and in the afternoons played
 golf, but with not a few whole days devoted to the fascinating
 process of grouse shooting, and had capital sport on various
 moors in Perthshire and Invernesshire.
    On September 25th I went to Sir Andrew Noble's at Ard

400          LIGHTER CORRESPONDENCE
kinglas in Argyllshire, where I went deer-stalking for three
days, but had the luck only to get a shot on one day, the result
being a very fine 8-pointer stag. . . .
   I returned to London on the ist October, and was from the
6th to the 19th in Paris, attending the Committee and Con
ference meetings connected with the International Bureau
of Weights and Measures, where, as       I have already said, I
met Stratton.
   After that I had a couple of days excellent partridge and
pheasant shooting, and now, here I am, settled down to work
for the winter, although I have three days' pheasant shooting
yet before me.
   With all this I am in capital health.

                             APPENDIX          II
                             PAPERS BY
   SIR DAVID GILL, K.C.B.
   KNIGHT OF THE PRUSSIAN ORDER POUR LE MERITE,
    COMMANDER OF THE LEGION D'HONNEUR (FRANCE),
   HON. LL.D., ABERDEEN AND EDINBURGH; HON. D.Sc,
OXFORD, CAMBRIDGE, DUBLIN, AND CAPE OF GOOD HOPE,
            F.R.S., HON. F.R.S.E., FOREIGN SEC. R.A.S.
   Correspondant    de I'Institut de France (Acadimie des Sciences) et du
Bureau des Longitudes (France) ; Foreign Member delta Reale Academia
dei Lined, Roma; Foreign Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences,
Amsterdam ; Corresponding         Member of the Imperial Academy of
Sciences,  Petrograd.    FOREIGN MEMBER of the National Academy
of  Sciences, Washington:    of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Sweden;
of  the  Sociiti Hollendaise    Nationale des Sciences (Haarlem) ; of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences (Boston); of the American
Philosophical Society of Philadelphia;       of the Italian Spectroscopic
Society (Rome).     HONORARY MEMBER of the New York Academy
of Sciences ; of the Sociiti des Sciences de Finlande (Helsingfors) ; of
the Royal Society of Glasgow; of the Royal Society of South Africa; and
First Honorary Member of the Astronomical and Astrophysical Society of
America. CORRESPONDING MEMBER of the SocitU Nationale des
Sciences, Cherbourg ; of the Sociedade de Geographia, Lisbon, etc.
   Bruce   Medallist of the Astronomical Society of the Pacific (1900) ;
Watson    Medallist of the National Academy of the United States (1900) ;
Gold Medallist of the Royal Astronomical Society of London (1882 and
1908); Royal Medallist of the Royal Society of London (1903); Vale
Medallist of the Institute of France (Acad, des Sciences) (1882).
   Prepared by Mr. W. H. Wesley, Assistant Secretary, Royal
Astronomical Society.
       D d                           4oi

                       LIST OF PAPERS
  [As a rule the official publications of the Cape Observatory
have not been included in this list.]
Note on Stars within the trapezium of the Nebula in Orion.
     R. A. S. M. N.,1 Vol. 27, 1867, pp. 315-316.
A suggestion in the use of chronometers, with a view to its
     use in the approaching transit of Venus.        R. A. S. M. N.,
     Vol. 32, 1872, p. 216.
On the proposed expedition to observe the approaching opposi
     tion of Mars. R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 37, 1877, pp. 310-326.
On the opposition of the Minor Planet Ariadne as a means of
     determining the solar parallax. R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 37,
    1877, pp. 327-333.
On the opposition of the Minor Planet Melpomene as a means of
     determining the solar parallax. R.A.S.M.N., Vol. 37,
     1877, pp. 412-422.
Reports of his expedition to Ascension (1877). R. A. S. M. N.,
     Vol. 38, 1878, pp. 2— 11, 57-58, 89-90.
Observations 01 Mars obtained at Ascension between July 31
     and September 4 [1877], both inclusive. R. A. S. M. N.,
     Vol. 38, 1878, pp. 17-21.
The determination of the solar parallax. Observatory, Vol. 1,
     1878,  pp. 7-13, 38-44,  74-82,   101-106, 129-134,   273-280.
On the progress of the reductions connected with the Ascension
     Expedition.    R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 39, 1879, pp. 51-72.
On the results of Meridian Observations of the Mars comparison
     stars. R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 39, 1879, pp. 98-123.
On the observations of o Centauri made with the heliometer
     at Ascension in 1877.         R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 39, 1879,
     pp. 123-126.
On a new method of determining astronomical refractions.
     R.A.S.M.N., Vol. 39, 1879, pp. 366-368.
On the value of the solar parallax derived from observations of
     Mars made at Ascension Island during the opposition of
      1877.   R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 39, 1879, pp. 431-437.
Observations of the great southern Comet, 1880, I., made at
     the Cape of Good Hope, February 2 to February 15.
     R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 40, 1880, pp. 300-301.
First report [1879] of the Committee appointed to consider the
     question 01 improvements        in astronomical clocks. Brit.
     Ass. Rep., 1880, pp. 56-58.
 Observations of Comet I., 1880, made at the Royal Observa-
             1
               Royal Astronomical Society Monthly Notices.
                                  402

                        LIST OF PAPERS                            403
      tory. Cape of Good Hope.       R. A. S. M. N., Vol.    40, 1880,
      pp. 623-627.
 Account of a determination of the solar parallax from observa
      tions of Mars made at Ascension in 1877.     R. A. S. Memoirs,
      Vol. 46, 1881, pp. 1-172.
 Annual Address . . . July 30, 1880 [On the determination of
      the Earth's mean distance from the Sun].        S. Africa Phil.
      Soc. Trans., Vol. 2, 1881, pp. xxiii-xliii.
 Observations of the Comet a, 1880.       Ast. Nach., Vol. 98, 1881,
      col. 29-30.
 On the solar parallax derived from observations of Mars at
      Ascension in 1877.    R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 41, 1881, pp. 317-
      325.
 On the best mode of undertaking a discussion of the observa
      tions of contact to be made at the approaching Transit of
      Venus.    R.A.S.M.N., Vol. 42, 1882, pp. 285-286.
On the effect of different kinds of thermometer screens, and of
      different exposures, in estimating the diurnal range of tem
      perature at the Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope.
      Meteorol. Soc. Quarterly Journal, Vol. 8, 1882, pp. 238-243.
On observations of Comets, 1881, II. and III., of Wells' Comet,
      and of the great Comet (b), 1882, made at the Royal Observa
      tory, Cape of Good Hope. R.A.S.M.N., Vol. 43, 1883,
      pp. 7-19.
Notes on the great Comet (6), 1882.        R.A.S.M.N., Vol. 43,
      1883, pp. 19-21.
On photographs of the great Comet (b), 1882.         R. A. S. M. N.,
      Vol. 43, 1883, pp. 53-54; and Part's Acad. Compt. Rend.,
      Vol. 95, 1882, pp. 1342-1343.
On the Victoria and Sappho observations [1882]. Ast. Nach.,
      Vol. 104, 1883, col. 55-58.
Note on some criticisms made by Mr. Stone on the methods
      available for determining the solar parallax. R. A. S. M. N.,
      Vol. 43, 1883, pp. 307-315.
Note on the nucleus of the great Comet (b), 1882.    R. A . S. M. N.,
     Vol. 43, 1883, pp. 319-321.
Preliminary account of a telegraphic         determination of the
     longitude of the Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope.
     R.A.S. M. N., Vol. 43, 1883, pp. 408-419.
Nouvelles recherches sur les distances des Etoiles. Astronomic,
      1884, pp. 456-459.
Note on Nyren's determination of the constant of aberration.
     R.A.S.M.N., Vol. 44, 1884, pp. 275-277.
Observations of Comet, 1884 (Barnard), made at the Royal
     Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 45,
     1885, pp. 45-49, 477.
On systematic errors in the readings of the circle microscopes of
     the Cape Transit Circle [1884]. R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 45,
     1885, pp. 64-90.
Observations of Comet, 1884, II. (Barnard), made at the Royal
     Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. Ast. Nach., Vol. 11o,
     1885, 201-206; Vol. 112, 1885, 187-188;        R.A.S.M.N.,
     Vol. 45, 1885, pp. 476-477.
Observations of Comet, 1884, I. (Pons, 1812), made at the Royal

404                   LIST OF PAPERS
    Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. Ast Nach., Vol. in,
    885, 141-144;    R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 45, 1885, pp. 471-476.
Observations of Comet, 1884, III. (Wolf), made at the Royal
    Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. Ast. Nach., Vol. 112,
     1885, 257-260; R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 45. 1885, pp. 478-480.
Mean places of stars observed with Comet, 1882, I., from observa
    tions with the transit -circle at the Royal Observatory, Cape
    of Good Hope. Ast. Nach., Vol. 112, 1885, 393-396.
Reply to Mr. Stone's paper on screw errors as affecting the N.P.D.
    of the Cape Catalogue for 1880.          R. A. S. M.N., Vol. 45,
     1885,  pp. 432-444.
The Cape Catalogue for 1880 [letter to the Editor].        Observatory,
     Vol. 8, 1885, pp. 176-177.
Stemschnuppenfall, 1885, November 27. Ast Nach., Vol. 113,
     1886,  369.
Observations of Comet, 1885,    II., made at the Royal Observatory,
     Cape of Good Hope.          Ast. Nach., Vol. 114, 1886, 121,
    122.
Beobachtungen des Cometen, 1886 (Fabry), am Cap der Guten
     Hoffnung. Ast. Nach., Vol. 114, 1886, 235-236.
On some suggested improvements in the practical working of
     M. Loewv's new method of determining the elements of
     astronomical refraction. R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 46, 1886,
     Pp. 325-328.
Photographie astronomique.        Bull. Astron., Vol. 3, 1886,  pp. 161-
     164, 321-323.
Sur les meilleures dispositions instrumentales pour la determina
    tion des 61ements de la refraction au moyen de la m6thode
     de M. Loewy, Paris.    Ac. Sci., C.R., Vol. 102, 1886, pp. 732-
     735.
Recent researches on the distances of the fixed stars and some
     future problems in sidereal astronomy [1884]. Roy. Inst.
     Proc, Vol. 11, 1887, pp. 91-106.
Observations of comets made at the Royal Observatory, Cape
     of Good Hope, in the year 1886.       Ast. Nach., Vol. 116, 1887,
     305-316; R.A.S.M.N., Vol. 47, 1887, pp. 277-293.
Observations of comets made at the Royal Observatory, Cape
     of Good Hope. Ast. Nach., Vol. 117, 1887, 339-340.
Schreiben betr. Beobachtungen des Cometen, 1888, I., nebst
     Mittheilungen fiber den Fortgang der Durchmusterung des
     sudlichen Himmels und das neue Heliometer. Ast Nach.,
     Vol. 119, 1888, 257-262.
On the occupations of Dollen's list of stars, observed at the
     Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope, during the total
     eclipse of the moon, 1888, January 28.             R. A. S. M. N.,
     Vol. 48, 1888, pp. 297-299.
The applications of photography in astronomy [1887]. Roy.
     Inst. Proc, Vol. 12, 1889, pp. 158-172; Butt. Astron., Vol. 4,
     1887, pp. 361-380.
[On recent work at the Cape Observatory ; letter to        the Editor.]
     Observatory, Vol. 11, 1888, pp. 85-87.
Note on Investigations on the accuracy of the Paris        photographs
     [Astrographic Charts]. Observatory, Vol. 11, 1888,    pp. 292-296.
The Photographic Chart of the Heavens [reply to            criticism, rt

                       LIST OF PAPERS                             405
     Catalogue    of Stars to the 11th Magnitude]. Observatory,
     Vol. 11, 1888, pp. 320-326.
Observations of Comet, 1888 (Encke), made at the Royal Ob
     servatory, Cape of Good Hope. Ast. Nach., Vol. 120, 1889,
     43-44-
Elemente des Cometen,       1889  (Davidson).  Ast. Nach., Vol.    122,
     1889, 191-192.
On the determination of errors of graduation without cumu
     lative error, and the application of the method to the scales
     of the Cape heliometer.        R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 49, 1889,
     pp. 105-118.
Catalogue of Stars to the 11th Magnitude [letter to Editor].
     Observatory, Vol. 12, 1889, pp. 438-440, and Vol. 13, 1890, p. 89.
Observations of Comet, 1889, IV., made at the Royal Observatory,
     Cape of Good Hope.         Ast. Nach., Vol. 124, 1890, 27-30;
     Vol. 126, 1891, 55-58.
Note on the parallax of 3 Ononis. Observatory, Vol. 13, 1890,
     pp. 289-291.
Note on some experiments with the new Cape astrophotographic
     telescope.    Observatory, Vol. 13, 1890, pp. 351-353.
Observations of Comet, 1891, I. (Barnard-Denning), made at
     the Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. Ast. Nach.,
     Vol. 128, 1891, 175-176.
Enteckung eines Cometen, 1892 (Swift, Marz 6). Ast. Nach.,
     Vol. 129, 1892, 1 19-120.
Observations of Comet, 1892, I., made at the Royal Observatory,
     Cape of Good Hope. Ast. Nach., Vol. 130, 1892, 55-58.
On the definitive places of the stars used for comparison with
     the planet Victoria in the observations for parallax, 1889.
     Ast. Nach., Vol. 130, 1892, 161-178.
Observations of occupations of faint stars during the total eclipse
     of the moon on November 15, 1891, made at the Royal
      Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 52,
      1892, pp. 164-168.
Observations of Comet, 1892 a (Swift), made at the Royal Ob
     servatory, Cape of Good Hope. R.A.S.M.N., Vol. 52,
      1892, pp. 568-569.
Methode de montage des plaques sensibles, determination de
     leur orientation, Paris. Comm. Int. Carte du del, Bull.,
      Vol. 1, 1892, pp. 7-50, viii.
Note relative au memoire de M. le Prof. J. C. Kapteyn [expos^
      de la methode      parallactique de mesure. Reduction des
      Cliches], Paris.   Comm. Int. Carte du del, Bull., Vol. 1,
      1892, pp. 1 15-124.
Notes relatives a differents memoires contenus dans le premier
      fascicule du Bulletin du Comity, Paris.      Comm. Int. Carte
      du del Bull., Vol. 1, 1892, pp. 128-132, viii.
Expose d'un projet de M. J. C. Kapteyn relatif a la determination
     des mouvements propres et des parallaxes d'etoiles, Paris.
      Comm. Int. Carte du Ciel Bull., Vol. 1, 1892, pp. 262-264.
An astronomer's work in a modern observatory [1891]. Roy.
      Inst. Proc, Vol. 13, 1893, pp. 402-416.
On the reduction of distances from heliometer observations.
      Ast. Nach., Vol. 131, 1893, 185-192.

406                    LIST OF PAPERS
Observations of Comet, 1892, VI., made at the Royal Observatory,
      Cape of Good Hope. Ast. Nach., Vol. 133, 1893, 193-196;
      R.A.S. M. N., Vol. 53, 1893, pp. 488-489.
Observations of Comet Finlay, 1893, made at the Royal Ob
      servatory, Cape of Good Hope. Ast. Nach., Vol. 133, 1893,
      329-332.
Opposition of Mars, 1892 ; Observations made at the Royal
      Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 53
      1893. Pp. "2-115.
Observations of Comet, 1893, II., made at the Royal Observ
      atory, Cape of Good Hope.        Ast. Nach., Vol. 134, 1894
     361-364.
New variable star in Vela. Ast. Nach., Vol. 135, 1894, 43, 44
Beobachtungen des Cometen, 1894 (Gale, April 3). Ast. Nach.
     Vol. 135, 1894, 149-150.
Mean places for comet-stars observed with the transit-circle at
     the Roval Observatory, Cape of Good Hope, in 1893.         Ast.
     Nach., Vol. 135, 1894, 381-382.
Observations of Comet Tempel (1873, II., 1894), made at the
     Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. Ast. Nach., Vol.
      135. i894. 383-384; Vol. 136. 1894, 125-126.
Observations of Comet, 1894, II. (Gale), made at the Royal
     Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. Ast. Nach., Vol. 136,
     1894, 123-126; R.A.S.M.N., Vol. 54, 1894, pp. 585-586.
Remarks on the best method of determining the positions of the
     planets by observation.    R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 54, 1894, pp.
     345-357-
On the investigation of the division errors of the scales of the
     Cape Repsold measuring apparatus, and the determination
     of the errors of the Oxford reseau [1892]. R. A. S. Mem.,
     Vol. 51, 1895, pp. 1-27.
Preliminary note on observations of the minor planet Victoria in
     1889 [1893].   Edin. Roy. Soc. Proc, Vol. 20, 1895, pp. 47-49;
     BtM. Astron., Vol. 10, 1893, pp. 248-250.
Note on the latitude of the Royal Observatory, Cape of
     Good Hope [1894]. R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 55, 1895, pp.
     34-36.
Meridian observations of Comet comparison stars made at the
     Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope, in 1893 and 1894.
     Ast. Nach., Vol. 138, 1895, 331-334.
Sur l'orientation de l'axe optique et du plan de la couche sensible,
     Paris. Comm. Int. Carte du del Bull., Vol. 2, 1895, pp. 102-.
     106.
A determination of the solar parallax and mass of the Moon
     from heliometer observations of the minor planets Iris,
     Victoria and Sappho made in the years 1888 and 1889 at
     the Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope, in co-opera
     tion with the observatories of Yale College (Newhaven),
     Leipzig, Gottingen, Bamberg and Oxford (Radcliffe), and
     from meridian observations made at all the principal ob
     servatories. Description of the heliometers and details of
     the heliometer observations.     [Discussion of the triangula-
     tion of the Victoria comparison stars, and the heliometer
     observations of Victoria and Sappho.          Combination of

                          LIST OF PAPERS                               407
      results  and general conclusions.]        Cape Obs. Ann.-,1 Vol. 7,
      1896, pp. 1-72,    1 Ws-403;    Vol. 6, 1897, xliii. pp., (Pts. i, 2)
      539 Pp.. (Pt. 3) 83 pp., (Pt. 6) 32 pp.
Sur cinq photographies de la region entourant ij d' Argus, Paris.
      Ac. Sci. C. R., Vol. 123, 1896, p. 29.
Annual address to the members of the South African Philosophical
      Society, on September 27, 1893.            [On the solar parallax.]
      S. African Phil. Soc. Trans., Vol. 8, 1896, pp. xlix-lx.
First [-fifth] list of double stars discovered at the Royal Ob
      servatory, Cape of Good Hope. Ast. Nach., Vol. 142,
      1897, 369-374;       Vo1. 143. 1897, 171-174;         Vol. 144, 1897,
      89-94; Vol. 145, 1898, 93-96; Vol. 146, 1898, 369-372.
New southern variable stars. Ast. Nach., Vol. 143, 1897, 283-
      286; Vol. 144, 1897, 143-144.
On the mean places and proper motions for 1900 of twenty-four
      southern circumpolar stars. R.A.S.M.N., Vol. 57, 1897,
      pp. 532-533.
New double stars found at the Cape Observatory in 1896.
      R. A . S. M. N., Vol. '57, 1897, pp. 533-541.
Propositions pour les valeurs des constantes astronomiques
      [faites a la Conference        Internationale des 6toiles fonda-
      mentales de 1896], Paris.         Bur. Long. Ann., Vol. 5, 1897,
      D.. PP. 57-90.
On the effect of chromatic dispersion of the atmosphere on the
      parallax of a Centauri and 0 Orionis, and on a method of
      determining its effect on the value of the solar parallax
      derived   from heliometer observations of minor planets
      [1897].   R.A.S.     M. N., Vol. 58, 1898, pp. 53-76.
Observations of Comet, 1897, I., made at the Royal Observatory,
      Cape of Good Hope. Ast. Nach., Vol. 146, 1898, 203-204.
On the parallax of Sirius and of o Gruis. R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 58,
      1898, pp. 78-83.
Nebulae observed at the Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope.
      R.A.S.M.N., Vol. 58, 1898, pp. 329-330; Vol. 59, 1899,
      Pp. 339. 522.
Reply to Dr. Rambaut's note
                                      " on the effect of chromatic dis
      persion." R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 58, 1898, pp. 415-425.
An account of telegraphic longitude operations connecting Aden
      and the Cape of Good Hope in the years 1881 and 1882.
      Cape Obs. Ann., Vol. 1, 1898 (Pt. 2), pp. [i]-[68], 1-83, iv.
On a new instrument for measuring astrophotographic plates
      [1898].   R.A.S. M. N., Vol. 59, 1899, pp. 61-72.
Note on the effect of wear on the errors of micrometer screws.
      R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 59, 1899, pp. 73-76.
Observations of meteors made at the Royal Observatory,
      Cape of Good Hope, on 1898, November 13 and 14.
      R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 59, 1899, pp. 109-112.
Note on the clock Hardy formerly used as the Cape transit
      clock. Ast. Nach., Vol. 148, 1899, 237-238.
Observations of Comet, 1898, VII., with the equatoreals at the
  1  The importance of this research and one on stellar parallax demands
their inclusion in this list, although Gill's publications in Cape Observa
tory Annals, and other observatory publications are generally excluded.

408                  LIST OF PAPERS
     Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope. Ast. Nach.,
     Vol. 149, 1899, 141-142.
On the discovery of a certain proper motion [letter to Editors].
     Observatory, Vol. 22, 1899, pp. 99-100.
Occultations of stars by the Moon observed at the Royal Ob
     servatory, Cape of Good Hope in the years 1881 to 1898.
     Ast. Nach., Vol. 150, 1899, 393-428; Vol. 152, 1900, 283-
    284.
On a method of obtaining perfectly circular dots unaffected by
     phase, and their employment in determining the pivot errors
     of the Cape transit circle. R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 59, 1899,
     pp. 125-135.
Occultations observed at the Royal Observatory, Cape of Good
     Hope, during the lunar eclipse, December           27,  1898.
     R.A.S. M. N., Vol. 59, 1899, pp. 340-341, 522.
On the presence of oxygen in the atmospheres of certain fixed
     stars [1899]. Roy. Soc Proc, Vol. 65, 1900, pp. 196—206.
Observations of comets at the Royal Observatory, Cape of Good
     Hope. Ast. Nach., Vol. 151, 1900, 109-112.
Observations of Comet, 1899, IV. (Tempel), with the transit
     circle of the Royal Observatory, Gape of Good Hope. Ast.
     Nach., Vol. 151, 1900, 187-190.
Researches on stellar parallax made with the Cape heliometer.
     Observers : David GilI, W. H. Finlay, W. de Sitter, and
   , V. A. Lowinger.      Cape Obs. Ann., Vol. 8 (Pt. 2), 1900,
     (i)-(xvi), 1 B-173 B.
Address delivered at the unveiling of the inscription stone
     of the Victoria telescope, Cape Observatory. Observatory,
     Vol. 24, 1901, pp. 397-402.
Cape double star results, 1900.     R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 61, 1901,
     PP. 575-6l5.
The spectrum of ij Argus. Roy. Soc. Proc, Vol. 68, 1901, pp.
     456-458 (reprint in R.A.S.M.N., Vol. 61, 1901, appx.,
     pp. 66-68).
The great Comet, 1901 a. Ast. Nach., Vol. 155, 1901, 319-320.
The great Comet of 1901 as observed at the Royal Observatory,
     Cape of Good Hope. R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 61, 1901, pp. 508-
     512.
Spectrum of ij Argus. Roy. Soc. Proc, Vol. 68, 1901, pp. 456-458.
Variable, y Argus. Ast. Nach., Vol. 155, 1901, 239-240.
Elemente des Cometen, 1901 a. Ast. Nach., Vol. 155, 1901,
     285-286.
The Oxford      photographic determinations   of Stellar parallax.
     Reply to Prof.     Turner. R.A.S.M.N., Vol. 61, 1901,
     pp. 513-521.
Meridian Observations of Comet-comparison stars. Ast. Nach.,
     Vol. 157, 1902, 95, 96.
Preliminary note on an apparent rotation of the brighter fixed
     stars as a whole with respect to fainter stars as a whole.
     Ast. Nach., Vol. 159, 1902, 11 7-122.
Notes on nebulae observed at the Royal Observatory, Cape of
     Good Hope. R.A.S. M. N., Vol. 62, 1902, pp. 468-470.
Cape Double Star results, 1901.     R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 62, 1902,
     pp. 470-484.

                         LIST OF PAPERS                              409
Observations of Comet, 1903, I., made at the Royal Observatory,
      Cape of Good Hope. Ast. Nach., Vol. 163, 1903, 281-284.
Geodetic Survey of Rhodesia.          Verhandl. Conf. Erdm., Berlin,
      1900-1901, pp. 140-142.
Observations of Comet, 1903, IV., made with the 7-inch Equa
      torial of the Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope, by
      W. H. Cox. Ast. Nach., Vol. 164, 1904, 139-140 (com
      municated by D. G.).
Observations of Comet, 1904 e. Ast. Nach., Vol. 167, 1905,
      351-352-
Astronomy and Geodesy in South Africa.             Science  in S. Africa,
      1905, pp. 61-73.
On the origin and progress of Geodetic Survey in South Africa,
      and of the African Arc of Meridian.           Brit. Ass. Rep. for
      1905, pp. 228-248 (also in S. African fournal of Science,
      Vol. 1, 1907).
Observations of the conjunction of Saturn with h1 Aquarii.           Ast.
      Nach., Vol. 172, 1906, 351-354.
Presidential Address to the British Association at Leicester.
      Brit. Ass. Rep., 1907, pp. 3-26; Nature, Vol. 76, 1907,
      pp. 319-327.    (Abstract of ditto, in Observatory, Vol. 30, 1907,
      pp. 299-306, 335-339)
Uber die Bewegung und Verteilung der Sterne im Raume (Vor-
      trag). Naturwiss. Rundschau, Vol. 22, 1907.
A possible     connection   between   earthquakes     and   great  waves
      at distant localities. Observatory, Vol. 31, 1908, pp. 407-411.
Presidential Address on presenting the Gold Modal of the R.A.S.
      to Prof. F. Kiistner.     R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 70, 1910, pp.
      395-413-
Articles Heliometer, Micrometer, Telescope.         Encycl. Britannica,
      11th ed., 1909-1911.
Presidential Address on the award of the Gold Medal of the
      R.A.S. to Dr. P. H. Cowell.      R.A.S. M. N.,      Vol.  71, 191 1,
     pp. 368-385.
The arc of meridian of 30° E. longitude.       Verhandl. Conf. Erdmes-
      sung, Vol. 16, 1909, pp. 219-225.
L'6tat actuel de rAstronomie.         del et Terre, 1907, pp. 345-
     359, 451-459; 1908, pp. 503-511, 562-569.
The azimuth marks of the Cape transit circle.                Observatory,
     Vol. 36, 1913, pp. 134, 135.
           Papers by Sir David Gill and   others {joint papers).
Gill, D., and Lord Lindsay [Earl of Crawford].           On Lord Lind
     say's preparations for observations of the transit of Venus,
      1874.
              R.A.S.M.N., Vol. 33, 1872, pp. 34-43.
       On a new driving clock for cquatoreals.           R. A. S. M. N.,
     Vol. 34, 1874, pp. 35-38.
       On the determination of the solar parallax by observations
     of Juno at opposition. R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 34, 1874,
—%         279-300.
         bte on the results        of Heliometer observations          of
     the    planet Juno, to determine           its diurnal parallax.
     R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 37, 1877, pp. 308-309.

410                         LIST OF PAPERS
Gill, Mauritius Expedition, 1874.         Division I. Determination of
      the solar parallax by observations of the minor planet Juno
      (3) at opposition, together with a description of the helio-
      meter used in the observations. Dun Echt Obs. Pub., Vol. 2,
      1877, 212 pp.; Vol. 3, 1885, xii.
Gill, Sir David, and W. L. Elkin, Heliometer determinations
      of stellar parallax in the southern hemisphere               [1884].
      R. A. S. Mem., Vol. 48, 1885, pp. 1-194.
Gill, Sir David, and H. Jacoby, On the determination of the
     errors of the Cape Reseau, Gautier, No. 8. Helsingfors
      Acta, Vol. 23, 1897, No. 5, 31 pp.
Gill, Sir David, and J. C. Kapteyn, The Cape photographic
      durchmusterung for the equinox, 1875.            Cape Obs. Ann.,
      Vol. 3, 1896, lxviii + (129) + 649 pp. ; Vol. 4, 1897, xxxi +
      672 pp. ; Vol. 5, 1900, 88 + 671 pp.
Gill, Sir David, and S. S. Hough, Determinations of personal
      equation depending on magnitude, made with the transit
      circle and the heliometer at the Royal Observatory, Cape
      of Good Hope. R. A. S. M. N., Vol. 67, 1907, pp. 366-380.
   In   order  to   make the above List of Papers more     complete    as a
Bibliography,      the following works are added :—
                  Geodetic Survey of South Africa
Report of the Geodetic Survey of South Africa, executed by
       Lieut. -Colonel W. G. Morris, 1883-92, under the direction
       of David Gill; together with a rediscussion of the survey
       executed by Sir Thomas Maclear, 1841-48, pp. i.-xiv. [i]-[i73],
       1-289.     1896.
   Vol.   II.  Report on a rediscussion of Bailey's and Fourcade's
       surveys, and their reduction to the system of the Geodetic
       Survey, by Sir David Gill, pp. i.-xx. 1-257.      1901.
   Vol. III. Report of the Geodetic Survey of part of Southern
       Rhodesia, executed by Alexander Simms, under the direction
      of Sir David Gill, pp. i.-xiv. 1-146.      1905.
Report of the Boundary Survey between British Bechuanaland
      and German S.W. Africa, executed by Lieut.-Colonel Laffan
      and Lieuts. Wettstein and Doering, under the direction of Sir
      David Gill [German and English], pp. i.-v. 1-162.          1906.
   Vol. V. Reports of the Geodetic Survey of the Transvaal and
      Orange River Colony, executed by Colonel Sir W. G. Morris,
      and of its connection, by Capt. H. W. Gordon, with the
      Geodetic Survey of Southern Rhodesia. With a preface and
      introduction by Sir David Gill, pp. i.-xxxvii. 1-463.         1908.
Revision of the Cape Photographic Durchmusterung, Parts I.,
       II. and III., made under the direction of Sir David Gill.
      Cape Obs. Ann., vol. ix. pp. 1-8, ia-6^a, 16-188&, ie-86c.
       1903.
Gill, Sir David, A history and description of the Royal Observa
      tory, Cape of Good Hope, pp. i.-cxc. 1-136.           1913.

                                   INDEX
ABBE, CLEVELAND,               220          BACKLUND, DR. OSKAR, Gill's
Aberdeen, Earl of, 32                         mathematical       intuition, 31 ;
Adams, Prof. J. C, 84, 87; his                Gill's visit to Pulkowa, 105 ; on
  strong support to C.P.D., 176               Cape Transit Circle, 224 ; on
Airy, Sir G. B., 55, 57; meets                Gill's character, 307 ; on Gill's
  Gill at Aberdeen, 84 ; interest             History of the Cape Observatory,
                                              " Gill's Swan
  in Ascension expedition, 87;                                Song," 353.
  opinion of Meteorology,            90;    Baillaud, Mons. B., letter to, on
  letter from, 91 ; on Radcliffe              being made Commander               of
  Observer, 101 ; letter to, on               Legion of Honour, 345
  Newall's offer, 103 ; letter to, on       Baker, Gerald, early recollections,
  Mars results, 107; on survey                8. 30
  of S. Africa, 118; his advice,            Bakhuyzen, Prof. H. G. van de
   125; Cape report, 127; corre               Sande, 184
   spondence,      129;   letter to, on     Ball, Sir Robert, succeeds Adams,
   death of Sir T. Maclear, 130;              213; letter to, on his appoint
  letter to, on Newall's offer, 133 ;         ment, 213; speech, 214; funeral
   letter to, on Heliometer, 133;             of, 356
   retires from Greenwich, 136;             Balmer, Rev. C, 359
   photographs of Comet, 1882,              Bannerman, Sir A., 31
   137;      letters    to,   138;    on    Barnard, Prof. E. E., induced to
   appointments        to Cape, 158,          photograph Milky Way from
   295                                        Gill's success with comet, 1882,
       Wilfrid,   138                          136
Albani, Madame, 285                         Bauer, measures photographs for
AUis (photographer), 198                      parallax, 135
Ambronn, 104                                Black,    Alexander      (ancestor of
Anderson (librarian King's Col                Lady GUI), 4
   lege), 26                                      Miss Anne (sister-in-law), 41
        James (schoolmaster,       Fove-          Miss Bessie (sister-in-law) ,
   ran), 42                                   212; death, 342
Andrew,        Mrs.,    Gill's musical            Elizabeth      (ne'e     Garden),
   enthusiasm, 286                            (mother-in-law),        41 ;   death,
Apps (electrician), 55                        206
Arrest, H. d', 58                                 Miss Isobel (Lady Gill), 41
Ausfeld (Gotha), 55                               John (father-in-law), 41
Auwers, Prof. A., 55; letter to,                  William,   359
    61 ;  on Ascension expedition,          Bourdillon,     Miss, on life at
    96 ; close relations, 106 ; under          Ascension, 95
    takes reductions of comparison          Brasier, Professor, 12
    stars, 189; goes to Cape for            Brodie, John (sculptor), 30, 83
    heliometer observations,         189,   Brown, Prof. Crum, 186
    268;    last letter from, 353;          Bruce, Colonel, 125
    death, 353                                     Dr.. 359
 Awdry, Sir Richard, 179                    Brunnow, Dr. F.,      61
                                          411

412                                  INDEX
Brunton,       Sir Lauder,      attends    tius Expedition, 67; anecdote,
   Gill's last illness, 357                70; letter to, on Egyptian
                                           Survey, 77; death, 82*; his
CARPENTER           (assistant at Dun      character, 81 ; letter to, on his
   Echt),    63, 80                        father's death, 130;             death,
Carruthers, Mrs., see Markham,             333
   Miss V.                               Crawford, Earl of (27th Earl),         102
Chamberlain, Right Hon. Joseph,
   sends Gill to Berlin, 221, 311        DALE, SIR LANGHAM.                119
Chazal, M. de, 68                        Dallmeyer (optician), 64, 135
Chisholm, Miss, 7                        Darwin, Sir George, 214; secures
Christie, Sir William, 101, 102;           funds to complete survey, 238;
  succeeds Airy, 137; letter to,           death, 333
   147; letter to, on Board for          Davidson, Alexander, early recol
  Cape, 159; letter to, on Stone's         lections, 11; later memories,
  methods, 162;         letter to, on      336
  discontinuance of financial sup        De la Rue, Dr. Warren, assistance
  port      to Cape Photographic           for establishing Newall             tele
  Durchmusterung,           164 ;    his   scope, 132
  opposition       to C.P.D.,      175;  De Sitter, Professor, 188; account
  hostility to Cape proposals, 178 ;       of, 234, 236, 357
  retires from Greenwich, 343            Dollen, Professor, 75
Chrystal, Professor, 119, 186            Dougal, Dr. (head master Dollar
Clark, Mr., 26                             Academy), 8
Clerke, Miss Agnes, 177; visit to        Douglas (ostrich farmer), 231
  Cape, 195; letters to, 196-203;        Draper, Prof. H., letter to, 57
  letter to, on McClean's visit,         Duff, Gordon, letter to, 145
   228 ; death, 333 ; various letters          Mrs. Gordon, letter to, 143
   to, 363-377-                          Dyson, Sir Frank, reminiscences,
        Miss Ellen Mary, letter to,        323;      appointed       Astronomer
       203                                 Royal, 343; goes with Gill to
Colahan, Mrs., Gill's enjoyment of         Sir R. Ball's funeral, 356
   her piano playing, 284
Colley, Sir George,          115,   120, EICHENS (optician),          55
   238                                   Elkin, Dr. W. L.,        104 ;  letter to,
Common, Dr. A. A., 184                     on Newall's        offer, 132; visits
Cooke & Sons, 38, 54, 65                   Cape, 134;        leaves Cape, 140;
Cookson, Bryan, letter to, advice          letters to, 140;          assisted by
   about becoming astronomer,              Gill to obtain heliometer, 153;
   232, 236, 313; death, 333               letter to, on heliometer negotia
Copeland, Dr. Ralph, 69; letter            tion, 157, 194; letters to, 217,
   to, 185                                 219;     letter to, on McClean's
Cottingham, E. T., on clock in             offer, 226, 236; letter to, on
   vented by Gill, 244                     financial losses, 334 ; letters to,
Courtney, Mr. (Ministerial Secre           337-341       (on     Newcomb's ill
   tary at Treasury), 158                  ness  ; telescope     for Ristenpart ;
Crawford, Countess of, letter to,          British Association ; lectures at
    73.  80                                Royal Institution) ; letter to, on
        Earl of (25th Earl), invites       optical glass, 349
   Gill to be Director of Dun Echt
   Observatory, 50 ; urges accept        FAIRBRIDGE,           CHARLES,         112
   ance of Khedive's         offer, 78;  Farquharson,      Right Hon. Robert,
   death, 130                               32. 359
        Earl of (26th Earl), (for        Finlay, W. H.,          188;     domestic
   merly Lord Lindsay), 39; first          sorrows, 207
   acquaintance, 40 ; laboratory         Foerster, Dr. W., letter from, 242
   in London, 48;          plans Dun     Forbes, Prof. George, recollections
   Echt Observatory, 52; letter            of Hamburg meeting of Ast.
    from, 55; letter to 62; Mauri          Gesell., 59

                                   INDEX                               413
Foster, Sir M., on offer to Gill to     accident to heliometer, 88 ; sails
  succeed Adams, 213                    for Ascension, 92 ; awarded Gold
Franklin-Adams, John, 236               Medal of Royal Astronomical
Frere, Sir Bartle, 113;        tribute  Society, 96; awarded the Valz
  from Gill, 115; letter from, 117,     medal, 96; Lines to his wife,
   120, 238                             97 ; candidate for Radcliffe Ob
Frere, Lady, her tact, 114              server, 101 ; appointment          as
       Miss Georgina, recollections,    H.M. Astronomer at the Cape,
   117                                  103;      Newall   offers 25-inch
Fuller, Sir Thomas,     119             telescope to Cape, 103; visits
Furze (artist), letter from, 216        to foreign observatories, 104 ;
                                        result of Ascension observations
GARDEN, ALEXANDER,                41    107; arrives at the Cape, m ;
Gibbs, assists Gill at Alexandria,      his relations with Sir Bartle
                                        Frere, 115; reports on survey
GiU, Andrew Mitchell (brother),         of S. Africa, 118;        interview
   5 ;  early recollections, 7 ; at     with Cecil Rhodes, 122 ; life at
   Sir David's funeral, 359             the Cape, 125 ; buys Lord Lind
  — David (father), 3, 4, 5 ; busi      say's heliometer, 134; photo
   ness made over to his son David,     graphs comet b, 1882, 135;
   40; death, 100                       commences Cape Photographic
  — David (brother), dies in in         Durchmusterung, 135; portrait
   fancy,                               painted by Sir Geo. Reid and
  — Sir 5David, parentage, 3 ;          Mr. G. Henry, 139; intimacy
   birth, 5 ; childhood, 6 ; early      with New-comb, 148; visit to
   taste for science, 7; Dollar         England, 1884, 153; obtains
   Academy, 7; rifle-shooting, 10;      Admiralty consent to new
   love of sports, 1 1 ; Marischal      heliometer, 156;       correspond
   College, 1 1 ; Clerk Maxwell's       ing member of St. Petersburg
   opinion, 12;      studies mathe       Academy, 163; Royal Society
   matics with Dr. Rennett, 15;          cease to support C.P.D., 164;
   speech at Aberdeen University         resolves to continue it at his
   Club, 16; enters his father's         own expense,      164;    Kapteyn
   business, 18 ; goes to Switzer        offers to measure the plates,
   land, 19; Coventry workshops,         167;    initiates with Mouchez
   20; Clerkenwell, 21; junior           Astrographic     Congress,     174;
   partner, 23 ; establishes time-      strong opposition to C.P.D.,
   signals at Aberdeen, 25 ; first       175   (389); his unselfishness,
   acquaintance with telescope, 26 ;     176;    hostility of Astronomer
   becomes lieutenant in Aberdeen        Royal, 178;      cordial support
   shire Rifles, 31; rifle-shooting,    of Hydrographer,        179;   third
    32; buys first telescope,       37; voyage to Cape, 181 ; obtains
   photographs the moon, 39 ; first      Admiralty sanction to astro-
   acquaintance with Lord Lind          graphic scheme, 183;          stellar
   say, 40; meets the future Lady       parallax work, t 87; determina
   Gill, 41; his engagement, 43;         tion of solar parallax from Iris,
   marries Isobel Black, 45; ap          Victoria, and Sappho, 188;
   pointed to Dun Echt, 50 ; invents     Auwers' offer to visit Cape and
   photographic rtseau, 56 ; visit       assist in observations,        189;
    to Pulkowa, 58 ; proposes helio-     determines new value of moon's
    meter for observations of Juno       mass, 191 ; Tisserand's testi
    for solar parallax, 61 ; Mauritius   mony, 192 ; discouragement by
   expedition, 67 ; geodetic work        Admiralty of his researches, on
   in Egypt, 76 ;         invited    by  advice of Astronomer Royal,
    Khedive to survey Egypt, 78;         192 ; triumphs over opposition,
   decides to leave Dun Echt, 81 ;       193 ; visit of Miss Agnes
                                                                     Clerke,
   question of partnership with          195; corresponding member of
    Howard Grubb, 86; Ascension          Berlin Academy, 206; visit of
    expedition, action of R.A.S., 87 ;   Knobel to Cape, 207; days of

414                                  INDEX
  sorrow, 208; adopts the three              338 ; President British Associa
  sons of deceased sister, 209 ;            tion, 339 ; awarded Gold Medal
  honorary fellow of R. Society             of Royal Astronomical Society,
  of Edinburgh,         210;     results    341 ; further serious illness of
  of Victoria observations, 211 ;           Lady Gill, 342; Hon. Mem.
  Lowndean Professorship offered            Astronomical and Astrophysical
  but declined, 213; illness of             Society of America, 344 ; Com-
  Lady Gill, 215; visit to Eng              mandeur      de  la Ugion d'Hon-
  land, 219; McClean offers 24-              neitr, 345;      receives German
  inch telescope to Cape, 219;              order Pour le M trite, 345;
  made C.B., 220; attends Con               dinner on his seventieth birth
  gress on National Ephemerides,            day, 347; letter of thanks to
  221; St. Moritz, 221 ; proposes           Cape      Staff, 348;        completes
  new transit circle, 221 ; dis             History and Description of the
  covers magnitude            equation,     Cape Observatory, 352 ; awarded
  222 ; constructs new azimuth              a Royal Medal, 356; attends
  marks, 224 ; details of McClean's         funeral of Sir Robert Ball, 356;
  offer,. 225; visit of McClean to          chill probably caught on that
  Cape, 228;       geodetic survey,         occasion, 356;           last serious
  231 ; advises Cookson on astro            illness, pneumonia and pleurisy,
  nomical study, 232 ; visit of             357;      death, 358;         profound
  De Sitter, 234; his important             sorrow, 358 ; purchased site of
  geodetic work, 237;          visit of     grave, 358 ;        funeral at St.
  British Association to Cape,              Machar Cathedral, Aberdeen,
  239;    death of Admiral Sir              359; floral tokens from Cape,
  William Wharton, 241 ; Member             Greenwich, Paris, Pulkowa, and
  International Committee              of   Mount Wilson, 359; memorial
  Weights and Measures, 242 ; his           service at St. Mary Abbot.
  "perfect" clock, 243 (376);               Kensington, 359; Lady Gill's
  retirement from the Cape, 244 ;           description      of     grave,     359;
  three great undertakings suc              Appendix       I, letters to Miss
  cessfully accomplished,           245 ;   Agnes Clerke, 363-377; corre
  made K.C.B., 251 ; Cape politics,         spondence with Newcomb, 377-
  252; at Natal for Royal visit,            387; letters to Kapteyn, 387-
  257 ; visit to Lord Milner, 260 ;         394; letters to Hale, 395-400;
  Carlsbad,     262;     illness from       list of publications, Appendix
  diphtheria, 267 ; personal anec           II,   401.
  dotes, 268 ; personal traits and        GUI, David & Son, 3, 26
  tastes, 280 ; love of music, 284 ;             James Bruce (brother), 5;
  religious views, 289; Gilliana,           on David's rifle-shooting,          10;
  294; first meeting with Hale,             31; letter to, 33; letter to,
  306 ; love of sports, 309 ; deer          on visit to Pulkowa, 57; long
  stalking, 313; farewell dinner            letter to, on being made K.C.B.,
  at Athenaeum,        317;     life at     shooting experiences, 310
  34 De Vere          Gardens, 320 ;            Lady (wife), parentage, 41 ;
  unquestionable       greatness       of  first impressions of David Gill,
  his character, 324 ; President,           42; courtship, 43; marriage,
  Royal Astronomical           Society,     45 ;    reminiscence        of    early
  327;     foreign secretary, 327;          married life, 46 ; Six Months in
  continued      scientific    activity,   Ascension, 92;          her devotion
  327; favours vivisection, 328;            at Ascension, 97; serious ill
  his activities at Astrographic            ness, 215 ; further serious illness
  Congresses, 332 ; financial losses,       342 ; description of Sir David's
  334 ;    employed by different            grave at St. Machar Cathedral,
  Governments        to advise        on    359
  instruments,      334 ;    Christmas          Margaret       (nte    Anderson),
  lectures at Royal Institution,            (grandmother), 3
  335 ;    designs    telescopes     for        Margaret        (nie     Mitchell),
  Johannesburg        and Santiago,         (mother), 3, 4, 6; death, 46

                                  INDEX                                  415
Gill, Margaret (sister), 5 ; marries      39, 49; interest in Ascension
  Rev. H. Powell, 5, 157; death,          expedition, 88; on Ascension
  208                                     results, 94, 136; letter to, 165;
       Patrick  (brother),   dies   in    death, 333
  infancy,   5                         Hunter, Colin, 30
       Patrick Gilbert (brother), 5,
  32; letter to, 35                    INNES, R. T. A., 236; musical
       Peter (grandfather), 3, 4          recollection, 284
Gill & Smith, 3                        Israels, Joseph, 30
Gimingham, C. H., 22
Gordon, General, anecdote, 124         JACOBY.        H., visits Cape for
      , Hon. J. H., 32                    practical work with heliometer,
Gould, Dr. B. A., letter from, 97 ;       206, 236
  letter to, on Cordoba Zone-          Jhalawar, Maharaja of, letter to,
  Catalogue, 165                          35i
Graydon (seaman), letter from, 96      Jones, Thomas (optician), 26
Gresley, Rev. G. F., 290
Grey, Earl, reminiscence, 43, 120,     KAPTEYN,PROF.J.C.,note,39;
  238;     various   letters    from,     letter offering to devote some
  297                                     years to Cape Photographic
Grubb, Sir Howard, 54; letters            Durchmusterung,         167;    dis
  to, 56, 60 (on riseau) ; question       covery of two star streams, 168 ;
  of partnership with Gill, 86;           first meeting, 171 ; letters to.
  88 ; makes McClean telescope,           on C.P.D., 176, 182;         writes
  228 ; letter to. 344                    obituary, 187; letters to, 212;
Guillaume, his use of the nickel-         letter to, on Mrs. Gill's illness,
  iron alloy, invar, 237                  215; frequent visits to De Vere
                                          Gardens, 321; Gill's activities
HALE, DR. G. E., impressions of           at    Astrographic      Congresses,
  first meeting, 306; last letter         332 ;   letters to, written on
  from, 356; various letters to,          Gill's seventieth birthday, 346 ;
   395-400                                various letters to, 387-394
Hall. Harvey, note, 10; Gill's         Kelvin, Lord, first meeting, 22,
  rifle shooting,     32 ;    attends     24, 178, 289;       his views on
   funeral, 359                           vivisection, 328
Halle, Sir Charles, 285                Kerr, John, his Memories Grave
Halm, Dr. J., appointed chief             and Gay, 84
  assistant, 279; letter from,         Kershaw, Mr., 326
  279                                  Key, Rev. H. Cooper, sells re
Hartwig, Prof. R. E. A., 194              flector to Gill, 37, 86
Haswell, Robert & Son, reminis         Khedive,     the, invites Gill to
   cences, 21                             survey Egypt, 78
Henry, the brothers, 136; letter       Kilgour, George, 124
  to, on failure to obtain photo       Knobel, E. B., letters to, on Cape
  graphic telescope, 166; optical         work, 146;       on Astrographic
   work, 169, 174                         Congress, 172; letters to, on
       George, portrait of Gill by,       Admiralty consent to proposals,
   139                                    183; letter to, proposing Miss
Herschel, Lord, 193                       Clerke as Hon. Member of
Hill, Canon, funeral service at           R.A.S,. 204 ; letters to, 206-210 ;
   Aberdeen, 359                          goes to Cape, 207 ; letter to, on
Hills, Colonel E. H., 347, 358            results of Victoria observations,
Hind, J. R., 61. 87                       Solar    parallax,    and    Lunar
Hinks, A. R., anecdotes,     304          Equation, 211; anecdote, 274;
Hough, S. S., 222, 230;          chief    musical recollection, 284 ; anec
  assistant, succeeds Gill as H.M.        dote of Paris Congress,        304 ;
   Astronomer, 244, 278                   goes with Gill to Sir R. Ball's
Huggins, Sir William, Gill's first        funeral, 356
   photograph of moon sent to,         Kiistner, Prof. F.,   104

416                                  INDEX
LAMONT,        PROF. J..     56           Mitchell,    Mrs.     (aunt), David's
Larmor, Sir J., recollection, 303            attachment to his mother, 6;
Lecson, Mr., anecdote, 303                   reminiscences, 42
Leonard, Miss, anecdote, 288                     Sir C,   120
Lindsay, Dr. (head master, Dollar        Moir, James, 12
   Academy), 7, 30                       Morris, Sir W., goes to Cape, 141,
        Lord, see Crawford, Earl of          145;    letter from, on Gill's
   (26th   Earl).                            recovery       from      diphtheria,
Loch, Lord, 121                              267
Lockyer, Sir J . N . , letters from and  Mouchez, Admiral, 136; organizes
   to, on removal of Solar Physics          Astrographic Congress, 169, 174,
   Observatory, 351                          182
Low, Canon W. L., early reminis          Muir,     Dr., appointed Superin
   cences, 44                               tendent-General of Education
Lowe, Mrs., reminiscences of his            at Cape, 119
   shooting, 319
Lowell, Prof. Percival, 335              NASH, W. H. HOWARD, letter
Lyons, Major, 76                            to, on religious opinions, 292
Lytton, Lady, anecdote, 285              Nasmyth, James, letter to, 20;
                                            first meeting, 98 ; anecdote.
MACLAREN, LORD,              119, 186        100;   promises ^1000 towards
Maclear, Sir Thomas,       in   ; death,    Newall telescope, 100, 132
   130                                   Neate, Commander, 68
        Lady,  in                        Newall, R. S., generous offer of
       Miss, 112                            25-inch telescope to Cape, 103,
MacMahon, Major, account of Gill            107 ; financial support for, 132 ;
   at International        Conferences,     proposal abandoned, 133, 227
   329                                   Newcomb,        Prof. Simon,        first
McClean, Frank, 216 ; letter from,          meeting, 60, 77 ; visits Cape,
  offering 24-inch equatoreal to            140, 147; intimacy with Gill,
  Cape, 225 ; letter to, accepting,         148; letters to, 149, 150, 153;
   225; visits Cape, 228                    letter to, on Victoria observa
McGee, Dr. A. Newcomb (" F. B.")            tions and Lunar Equation, 191 ;
   (daughter of Simon Newcomb),             letters to, 192;       death, 333;
   149                                      correspondence between, 377-
Main, Rev. Robert, death, 100               387
Markham, Miss V., letters to,            N'icol, Professor, 16
   255-265                               Xiven,    C,   62;    attends   funeral,
Marth, A., 147                              359
Masupha (Basuto chief), 124              Noble, Lady, letter to, on deaths
Maxwell, Prof. James Clerk, testi           of Sir Fredk. Richards and Sir
  monial from, 12; influence of,            Geo. Darwin, 343
   12; lectures on astronomy, 13;               Miss, letter to Lady Gill on
  proposes wave length of light             Gill's enthusiasm for sport, 318
  as standard, 13; Gill's venera         Norman Neruda, visits observa
  tion for, 14; reminiscences of,           tory, 285
   17 ;   introduces Gill to Lord        Xorthbrook, Lord, 157
   Kelvin,   22, 30. 289
Mcikleham, Professor, 24                 PENNEFATHER.                PREBEN
Meldrum, Charles, 67                        DARY, memorial service,359
Merriman, Hon. J. X., 119; letter        Perry, Rev. S. J., 147
  on Cape politics, 252                  Peters, 194
Merz (optician), 54                      Petrie, Prof. Flinders, Gill's survey
Millais, Sir J. E., 30                      of Pyramids. 76 ; anecdotes,
Milner, Lord, conversation with,            3°5
   115, 120* 238;        letters from,   Phillimore.    Captain, 93
  253                                    Phillip, John (painter), 30
Mitchell, A. W. (cousin), attends        Pickering, Prof. E. C, 97
  funeral, 359                           Pogson, N., 101

                                   INDEX                                    417
Powell,    Bruce,   Lieut.   (nephew),   Schuessler, L., recollections, 20
  209                                    Schur, W., 194
       Frederick,    Major (nephew;,     Sidgreaves, Rev. W., 147
  209                                    Siemens, W., promises ^250 for
       Harry, Capt. (nephew), 209;          Newall telescope, 132
  killed at Ypres, 209                   Simms,      James,     letter to, on
        Mrs.,   see   Gill, Margaret        altazimuth, 65, 223
   (sister).                             Smiles, Samuel, 98
Power, J., account of heliometer         Smith, Sir G. Adam, 358, 359
   negotiation      with Admiralty,             Prof. Robertson, 57, 83
   156;    on Gill's holidays and               Right Hon. W. H., 103
   home-comings, 160; close in           Smyth, General L., 125
   timacy, 266; interesting notes,              Prof . Piazzi, 25 ; letter from,
   271 ; letter written       on Gill's     on Cape experiences, 108, 155
   seventieth birthday, 347              Spottiswoode, W., 132
Pritchard, Prof. C,     165, 199         Stanford, Sir Charles, 287
                                         Steinheil (Munich), 38
RAMBAUT, A. A.,         341              Stewart, Dr., 231
Kankine, Miss (nurse), 313               Stokes, Sir George, in favour of
Ran yell. Miss, 19                          Cape Durchmusterung,             177,
Reid, Archie, 83                            181 ;   his active support of
      Sir George, 30, 83 ; portrait by,     astrographic scheme, 183
   139, 154, 280; letters from, 281      Stone, E. J., 101 ; meets Gill at
Remenyi (violinist), 285, 365               Cape,   in;     his methods criti
Rennett,      Dr.    David      (mathe      cized, 162
   matical coach), 12; indebted                 General, 76, 78
   ness to, 15; notes concerning         Storie, A. J. W., 359
   Gill, 15 ; anecdote, 16, 30           Struve, Prof. Hermann, 104
Repsold (Hamburg), 54, 155                      Prof. Otto, letter to, 56, 58,
Rhodes, Cecil, 119, 120;          Gill's    163
   impressions of, 122; anecdote,
    123                                  TABRUN, A. H., letter to, on the
Richards, Admiral Sir F., first             Bible and Religion, 292
   meeting, 112; Gill's indebted         Tait, Professor, 289
   ness to, 121; stays with, 219;        Thomson, Prof. David, influence
   death, 333, 341                          on Gill's astronomical career,
Ristenpart, F. W., telescope for,           17 ; great mathematical teacher,
   designed by Gill, 338                    24;   small observatory of, 25,
Ritchie, James, & Son, 25                   30, 37
Roberts, A. W., reminiscence, 39;                      James, 24
   letter to, 230;      letter to, on                  Sylvanus, 48
   retirement from Cape, 240                    Sir William, see Kelvin,
 Robertson, Major (of Foveran), 5           Lord.
 Ross, A., 26                            Tietjen, Prof. F., computes plane
        Donald, 120                         tary        perturbations,       191,
Rutherford,       Professor,     photo      194
   graphed star groups before 1882,      Tisserand, F. F.,     192
    135                                  Trimen, Roland,          112;  reminis
Ruxton, Dr. J. (cousin), introduces         cences, 302, 303
   Miss Black (Lady Gill), 41            Trotter, A. P., anecdotes,      281
                                         Troughton & Simms, 54
ST. JOHNS, BISHOP              OF, on    Tulloch, Dr., 7
   Gill's religious views,    289        Tupman, Colonel G. L., organizes
Salisbury, Lord, 311                        Transit of Venus expeditions,
Sangster & Dunningham, 26                   66;    candidate for Radcliffe
Santley, Charles, anecdote, 285             Observer, 101
Sauer, Hon. J. W., 124                   Turner. Prof. H. H., 184
Sawerthal, H., 200
Schjellerup, Prof. H. C. F. C, 58        UPINGTON, SIR THOS.,             126
       EE

418                               INDEX
WALKER, REV. W.,           44             Wharton, Admiral Sir W.. first
Walton, Hon. E. H., speech at                 meeting, 68, 156;         effective
  farewell banquet, 308                       support of Gill's proposals, 1 79 ;
Watson, Professor, 75                         correspondence, 179; supports
      Sir C. M., 75                           Gill's application for Transit
Watts, George, 30                             Circle, 221 ; death, 239, 241
Webster, Mr. (M.P. for Aberdeen),         White, James (Kelvin & White). 22
  84                                      White, J. F.. 85
Weraher, Mr., subscribes to Sur           Wilson, Arthur, 19
  vey Fund, 238                           Winnecke, Prof. F. A. T., 104
Wesley, W. H., account of accident        Woods, Ray, 164
  at R.A.S., 88; list of publica          Wooton (clockmaker, Coventry),
  tions, 401
                               WAT      i   0    i»n
        Punted   in Great Britain by Richard Clay & Sons, Limited,
           brunswick st., stamford st., s.e., and bungay, suffolk.

   Recent Notable Biographies
THE LIFE OF BENJAMIN DISRAELI,
     EARL OF BEACONSFIELD. By George Earle Buckle in
     succession to the late W. F. Monypenny.                     In 5 Volumes.
     With Portraits and Illustrations. Demy 8vo. 12s. net each
          Vol.    1 :   1804-1837.        Vol. II : 1837-1846, by the
     late  W. F. Monypenny.              Vol. Ill : 1846-1855, by the late
     W. F. Monypenny and G. E. Buckle. Vol. IV : 1855-
      1868, by G. E. Buckle.           Vol. V : In preparation.
    " Mr. Buckle's well composed and perfectly proportioned biography . . .
draws a portrait, partial, as all portraits should be, yet eternally just with
the only justice worth having, the justice which comes of wise understand
ing and high appreciation." — The Times.
    "The only authentic storehouse of Disraelian fact, full, well selected
and certain." — Daily Telegraph.
LORD GRANVILLE LEVESON GOWER
     (AFTERWARDS THE FIRST EARL GRANVILLE).                               Private
      Correspondence, 1781-1821.               Edited by his Daughter-in-
      Law, Castalia, Countess Granville.                        2 Vols.     With
      Portraits. 2nd Impression.             Demy 8vo. 32J. net.
    "Castalia, Lady Granville,       has fully earned the very high compliment
that   the two volumes, each of some five hundred pages, which she has
given to the world, may be read from cover to cover without the reader
once feeling that tbey could advantageously have been curtailed." — Lord
CROMER in The Spectator.
WILLIAM WORDSWORTH:                                        his life, works
      AND INFLUENCE. By George McLean Harper, Pro
      fessor of the English Language and Literature at Princeton
      University. 2 Vols. With Illustrations. Demy 8vo. 24*. net.
     " In spite of all that has been written about Wordsworth there was need
 of a new biography which should give the story of the poet's life as it ap
 pears to modern eyes, and relate criticism with fact in a systematic whole.
 This Mr. Harper, who is a Professor in the University of Princeton, has done,
 and done well. His work has a point of view which directs, without deflect
 ing, its course ; and it offers very interesting new material." — The Times.
 THE JOURNALS OF LADY KNIGHTLEY
      OF FAWSLEY.               Edited by Julia     Cartwright (Mrs.        Ady).
      Second Impression. With Illustrations. Demy 8vo. 12s.net.
     " In Mrs. Ady"s latest book she has made a new departure, presenting
 us, indeed, in Lady Knightley with the picture of a beautiful woman, but
 one wholly in touch with her environment, the outcome of that great era in
 our history, the reign of Queen Victoria.        In this instance, the character
 reveals itself by extracts from Lady Knightley's own Journals, which, in
 addition to their intrinsic literary value, are singularly illuminative, not only
 of her own personality, but also of the public events and of the leading
 men with whom her life between the years 1856 and 1884 brought her in
 contact." — Church Times.
                 JOHN MURRAY:                       LONDON

      Books on the Great War
GERMAN POLICY BEFORE THE WAR.
      By G. W.         Prothero,        litt.d.,     Hon.    Fellow of King's
      College, Cambridge.          2s. 6d. net.
     This book is an attempt to explain the genesis of German Policy ; the
teaching, the events, and the conditions which combined to form a public
opinion in Germany favourable to war ; and the way in which that opinion
influenced the foreign policy of the Empire.          The international history of
the last twenty-five, and especially of the last ten, years is narrated in some
detail ; and the importance of German aims in the Near and Middle East is
emphasized as being the most fundamental cause of the present war.
ARISTODEMOGRACY.                                  from the great war
      BACK TO MOSES, CHRIST AND PLATO. By Sir Charles
      Waldstein, litt.d. (Camb.), Fellow and Lecturer of King's
      College, Cambridge.          \os. 6d. net.
     "Sir  Charles Waldstein's     wide and diversified knowledge of social
systems and international politics lends weight to anything he may write
                                                   '                  '
on the disturbing problems of the hour. . . . Aristodemocracy           cannot fail
to be recognized by all thinking men as a conspicuous endeavour to solve
those problems on rational and far.seeing lines." — Daily Telegraph.
AGRICULTURE                              AFTER THE WAR.
      By A. D. Hall, f.r.s.           3$. 6d. net.
     " Is ably written, as was      to be expected, and teems with concrete
suggestions.    The    special value  of the book consists in the reasoned and
lucid propositions   it contains for  the  direction of future developments."
                                                                      The Field.
     " The priceless value of this book lies in the suggestion offered as to
what remedies are practicable." — Country Life.
FREEDOM IN SERVICE,                                          six bssays on
      MATTERS CONCERNING BRITAIN'S SAFETY AND GOOD
      GOVERNMENT. By F. J. C. Hearnshaw, m.a., ll.d.,
      Professor of History, University of London, King's College.
      Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d. net.
     "One could hardly get into briefer compass than this able book by Mr.
 Hearnshaw a clearer or more complete account, logical and historical, of
the relation in which true liberty stands to the problem and duty of armed
defence." — Saturday Review.
                 JOHN MURRAY: LONDON




      ¦     *£^=
¦
        -vt
        : I   Vr
                 w ¦
-.-.N

