The Right Honourable Sir Henry Enfield Roscoe, P.C., D.C.L., F.R.S.
a biographical sketch by Sir Edward Thorpe.

Thorpe, T. E. Sir, (Thomas Edward), 1845-1925.
London, Longmans, Green, 1916.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc2.ark:/13960/t9p26rt1s

                                          Public Domain in the United States
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address.
         THE RIGHT HONOURABLE

SIR HENRY ENFIELD ROSCOE

                       P.C., D.C.L., F.R.S.
      The Right Honourable

Sir Henry Enfield Roscoe

                           P.G., D.G.L., F.R.S.

               A BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

                                                                   BY

      SIR EDWARD THORPE, C.B., F.R.S.
                                                      V

       LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO.

             39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON

                     FOUETH AVENUE & 30TH STBEET, NEW YOBK
                                 BOMBAY, CALCUTTA, AND MADRAS
                                                           1916
                                       [All rights reserved'}
-'
                ADVERTISEMENT

THIS sketch of the life and activities of Sir Henry
Enfield Roscoe is based, to a large extent, upon
an obituary notice prepared at the request of the
Councils of the Royal and Chemical Societies, of
which its subject was a distinguished member, with
a view to publication in their respective Proceedings
and Transactions. In its present more extended
form it is offered to a wider public as the record

of "a life in civic action worn," and as a slight

tribute from a grateful pupil, an attached co-worker,
and a lifelong friend to the memory of a strenuous
high-minded man, of large aims and generous im-
pulses, who spent his abilities and energies un-
stintingly in promoting the welfare of science and
the good of his kind.

                        48501
                       CONTENTS

                         CHAPTER I                              .1PACK

WILLIAM ROSCOE  HENRY ROSCOE                      ..  *      .  . 16

HENRY ENFIELD ROSCOE     CHAPTER II                          .  .28
                                                                -53
                         BIRTH AND EDUCATION                 .  -77
                                                                -97
                             CHAPTER III              .
                                                                . IIO
OWENS COLLEGE, MANCHESTER.
                                                                . 138
                         CHAPTER IV

THE YORKSHIRE COLLEGE                             .   '

                                                          .

                         CHAPTER V

THE VICTORIA UNIVERSITY  .                        .   .      .

ROSCOE AS A TEACHER .    CHAPTER VI                   .      .
                                                             .
                                ..                    .
                                                             *
                         CHAPTER VII                  ^

ROSCOE AS AN INVESTIGATOR .                       .

                         CHAPTER VIII

ROSCOE AND CHEMICAL LITERATURE                    .
                                             vii
                           Contents                      PAGE

                                     CHAPTER IX      . 146

ROSCOE AND THE ORGANIZATION OF SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES

                                          CHAPTER X  . 152
PUBLIC SERVICES POLITICAL AND PROFESSIONAL WORK

CHAPTER XI

UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ETON COLLEGE UNIVERSITY COLLEGE

OF DUNDEE SCOTTISH UNIVERSITIES COMMISSION ROYAL

COMMISSION OF THE 1851 EXHIBITION CARNEGIE TRUST I
SCOTTISH UNIVERSITIES SCIENCE AND ART DEPARTMENT I

SCIENCE MUSEUMS LISTER   INSTITUTE     ,l6lOF PREVENTIVE
MEDICINE . . .
                                    .  ..

                                 CHAPTER XII   GERMANY

DIGNITIES AND HONOURS THE DEUTSCHE REVUE        . .175
        AND ENGLAND WORLD SUPREMACY OR WAR

CHAPTER XIII

HOME LIFE LADY ROSCOE WOODCOTE         LODGE   PERSONAL
                                                 . . IQO
CHARACTERISTICS DEATH .        .            .

INDEX . . . .                                  ; .-   204

                         viii
THE RIGHT HONOURABLE

SIR HENRY ENFIELD ROSCOE

CHAPTER I

                   WILLIAM ROSCOE HENRY ROSCOE

THE subject of this memoir had no particular pride of
ancestry. Stemmata quid faciunt ? Although with
no convictions on the subject, he was willing to
believe that his line stretched at least as far back
as Adam and Eve, and he doubted whether any
man could with certainty claim -pace Darwin a

more ancient lineage. 1
   As he has told us in his Autobiography, his family

was one of the many that could not trace its origin

for more than three or four generations back. All he

knew was that he came of a North-country stock,
members of which village Hampdens and mute
inglorious Miltons had been settled in the County
Palatine and in the vicinity of Liverpool for many
years. He had a distinguished grandfather, a man
of mark and public weight in his native town, and

1 Johnnie Carnegie lais heer,     B
     Descendit of Adam and Eve;

  Gif ony con gang hieher,
      Ise willing give him leve.

                    I
 The .Right .'Hon. .Sir Henry E. Roscoe

who bears an honoured name in our literature. Of

him it is related that when a certain Garter Principal
King-at-Arms desired to trace his pedigree (which
had hitherto baffled his researches), he replied that

he was a good patriarch, and the proper person to
begin a family, as he had a quiverful of sons.
" Accordingly the whole descent is registered, and
the Roscoes may now go on in scecula s&culorum.
Amen."

   Mr. William Roscoe Grandfather Roscoe as he

was called in the family circle was justly claimed
by his grandson to be the first man of distinction
that Liverpool had produced. Although more than
one hundred and fifty years have passed since his
birth his name still remains one of the most pro-

minent in its history. His story is one of the

Romances of Literature.

   Born in 1753, he was the son of a market gardener
who kept a bowling-green, attached to a tavern, in
what was then a rural district of Liverpool known
as Mount Pleasant. He learned to read and write,

and that was practically all the schooling he received,
for at the age of twelve he was required to help his
father in the cultivation of his garden, and to carry
cabbages and potatoes on his head to market. But
he had an insatiable appetite for knowledge, and such

leisure as he could secure he gave to reading and

study. His love of literature led him to take service

in a bookseller's shop, but finding that his duties were
those of a drudge, leaving him little opportunity for
gratifying his passion, he articled himself when fifteen
years old to an attorney. He worked hard at his
profession, but still found time to cultivate the Muses,

                                                                2
William Roscoe

and, with the assistance of a gifted friend of his own

age who taught languages in a school, he read the
Classics and began the study of the literature of

Italy. He early tried his hand at poetry imitations

of Goldsmith and Shenstone, or translations from the

Italian. When he was twenty-four he published a
long poem " Mount Pleasant" a characteristically

stilted eighteenth-century production of no great merit

and now forgotten, but which on its appearance was

praised by Sir Joshua Reynolds, less, perhaps, for its

poetry than for its passionate protest against the

iniquities of "that execrable   sum   of all villainies
commonly called the African    slave  trade " at that

time one of the sources of the commercial pros-

perity of Liverpool. The courage of the struggling

young lawyer in thus inveighing against this vicious

traffic roused the anger of some of the wealthiest

and most influential of his fellow-citizens. He fol-
lowed up his attack by another poem on the " Wrongs

of Africa," and he had a fierce controversy with an

apostate Roman Catholic priest who had published
a sermon on the " Licitness of the Slave Trade " as

proved from the Bible, for which he had been formally

thanked by the Liverpool Corporation.

The coming of the French Revolution was received

with enthusiasm by all eager lovers of civil and

political liberty in England. Roscoe, who welcomed

its advent with inspiriting songs and odes, cham-

pioned its cause in pamphlets, one of them directed

against Burke, who had bitterly attacked the Jacobins.
The ardent young Liberal was now identified with

the Whig party in Liverpool, and was in frequent

communication with its Parliamentary chiefs.

3
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

    But he was not at heart a politician, and had but
little liking for the turmoil and violence of party strife.
" Party," he had declared with Pope, " is the madness

of many for the gain of a few." His strongest incli-

nations were intellectual, and as his means increased

and he was able to procure books he became more
and more drawn to the study of Italian literature and
history. The story of the rise of the Medici family,
and especially the character and achievements of one
of its ablest members, Lorenzo, surnamed the Magni-

ficent, strongly interested and eventually fascinated
him. These studies bore fruit in his well-known

"Life of Lorenzo de' Medici," published in 1796.

The work was received with a chorus of approval.
The critics declared there had been nothing like it
since Gibbon. Horace Walpole was delighted with
it. Men of taste like Lord Lansdowne and Lord
Bristol were equally charmed. It even became
fashionable, and new editions were speedily called
for. The book has been frequently reprinted, and
was translated into French, German, and Italian.
In Italy it was received with especial favour as a
noble tribute to the national genius.

    Its literary quality has gained for it an assured
place in our literature. As a permanent contribution

to Italian history it has less merit. It must be

admitted it lacks features demanded by modern
and more scientific methods of historical treatment.

Roscoe, we may assume, made the best possible

use of the material that was available to him. His

business prevented him from visiting Italy, but his
friend William Clarke, who had access to Florentine
libraries, supplied him with such information as he

                                                   4
             William Roscoe

asked for or could obtain. It is obvious from the

work that what mainly interested him was the literary

and artistic side of Lorenzo's career, and in particular
his influence on Italian art and learning. He had

apparently less sympathy with, because he had less

knowledge of, his social and political activities. He

was imperfectly acquainted with the influences which

affected him, or which at times he sought to control.

He was sometimes uncritical in his use of authorities,

and his judgment was occasionally at fault. But

whatever may be its value as a serious contribution

to history, there is no doubt of its merit as a piece
of literary craftsmanship. It was written under the

influence of an enthusiastic sympathy with and

admiration for its subject, to which no reader could

be wholly insensible, and there is much in Roscoe's

subsequent career, both in his pursuits and in his

civic activities, to show that he was largely inspired

by the example of his hero.

"   In 1798     appeared his translation   of Tansillo's
   Nurse,"   with a dedication to his     wife ; and in
1805 ms " Life and Pontificate of Leo the Tenth"

   the son of Lorenzo, and the Pope who saw the

rise of the Reformation. Although this latter book

brought its author more money, it was less favour-
ably received than his " Life of Lorenzo," mainly

on account of his treatment of the Reformation.

But apart from this it is less satisfactory as a

historical work. His knowledge of the contem-

porary state of intellectual Europe was too limited

to enable him to deal adequately with a subject of

so wide a scope. Nevertheless the book had a large

sale, in spite of, or possibly in consequence of, the

             5
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

fact that  the  Italian  translation  was  placed  in the

" Index."

   Shortly after the publication of his first great
work Roscoe renounced his practice as an attorney.
Having a competent fortune, he purchased Allerton
Hall, a fine old Jacobean house in a beautiful situa-
tion on the banks of the Mersey. He now turned

his attention to agriculture, set up a model farm
near his estate, cultivated the friendship of Coke of
Holkham, read papers on agricultural subjects to
local societies, and worked at the reclamation of

Chat Moss. He also set in order the affairs of a

banking house in which his friend Clarke, who

lived in Italy, was a partner, and he thereby became

involved in its direction and management. But he

had still leisure for literary pursuits.   He had

one of the largest and most valuable private libraries

in the district, especially rich in Italian history

and literature. He interested himself in typography

and induced John M'Creery a well-known printer
of his day to settle in Liverpool, where his works

were printed. He was a generous lover of the

fine arts, and has the credit of discovering the genius

of John Gibson, the sculptor, originally an apprentice
to a marble mason in Liverpool, whom he sent to

Rome. Gibson executed for Roscoe a basso-rilievo

in terra-cotta, now in the Walker Gallery in Liverpool,

the patron in his turn making his protegd free of
the treasures of his library at Allerton Hall. It was

in this way that Gibson first became acquainted
with the designs of the great Italian masters. The

acquaintance thus formed with the Roscoe family
was continued in the case of Mrs. Sandbach, a

                         6
                  William Roscoe

granddaughter of the Italian historian, who possessed
many of Gibson's works, and was in frequent corre-
spondence with him. Indeed most of the details
of Gibson's life were only to be gleaned from his
letters to Mrs. Sandbach, who was a very accom-
plished woman of considerable literary ability.

   Mr. William Roscoe was fond of horticulture,
and interested in botanical pursuits generally. In
the words of the late Professor Asa Gray, he was
one of the Patres conscripti of the botany of his
time, as the author of a monograph on the monan-
drian plants, and of other contributions on botanical
subjects to the Transactions of the Linnean Society.
Roscoe's influence on the intellectual life of his

native town may be seen in the various educational

and artistic institutions which he created or with

which he was concerned in founding. In 1773, when
only twenty years of age, he was one of the projectors
of a Society for the Encouragement of the Arts of

Painting and Design, the first public artistic society

in Liverpool. It had only a short existence, but

was revived ten years later, and ultimately developed
into the Liverpool Academy, of which Roscoe be-

came President. He designed and etched the

admission card to its exhibitions, contributed draw-

ings and read papers to its members. It was the
first organization of its kind in the provinces. It

not only encouraged local talent, but served to
familiarize Liverpool with the work of Reynolds,
Gainsborough, and other notable painters of the
period. He was a founder and President of the

Liverpool Literary and Philosophical Society ; an
active member of the Liverpool Library, afterwards

                                                          7
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

 known as the Lyceum, and the first public collection
 of books in the town. He was the means of estab-

 lishing the Liverpool Atheneum, an institution more
 especially concerned with the interests of learning
and scholarship. His love of horticulture led him
 to take an active part in the creation of a public
 Botanic Garden ; he drew up the plan of its adminis-
 tration, and at its opening in 1802 gave a thoughtful
address on the obligation which rests upon a
commercial community to encourage the study of

 abstract science.

    But perhaps Roscoe's greatest service to Liverpool
was his share in the foundation of its Royal In-
stitution. He was chairman of the Committee
which drew up the scheme of its establishment, and
wrote the Report for publication concerning its
objects; and at its opening in 1817 gave an address
on the part it was calculated to play in fostering the
connection which ought to exist between the in-
tellectual and the business life of a city devoted to

trade. "It is to the union," he declared, "of the

pursuits of literature with the affairs of the world
that we are to look for the improvement of both ;
for the stability and foundation of the one, and the
grace and ornament of the other." He was no less
mindful of the claims of science : " imperfect indeed
would be the civilization of that people who, devoted
to the accumulation of wealth by industry, should,
from an apprehension of expending their means on
useless objects, refuse to encourage scientific in-
quiries." He pointed out that all improvements in

the mechanical arts and in manufactures were to be

attributed to the labours and discoveries of those

                                                         8
                   William Roscoe

who had applied themselves to the enlargement of
the boundaries of science. Even at that time he

was able to show that many occupations hitherto
pursued empirically were being practised under a
growing recognition that they were based on scien-
tific principles, and that it was only by a wider
appreciation of that fact, combined with increased
facilities for the acquisition and diffusion of scientific
knowledge, that the improvement and expansion of
such industries could be secured.

   More than sixty years afterwards it fell to his grand-
son's lot to dilate upon the same theme in the same
place, and to indicate how the intervening time of
scientific and industrial progress had served to con-
firm the wisdom and accuracy of his grandfather's

insight.
   Mr. William Roscoe, however eminent he might be

in civic virtue, was precluded from taking any part in
the municipal affairs of the town, as he was not a free-
man of the borough. Nor, for the same reason, was
he able to exercise the Parliamentary franchise. But
whilst he himself had no vote, there was nothing to
prevent the voters from sending him to the House

of Commons as their representative if he and they
were so minded. In 1806 a swing of the political
pendulum brought the Whigs into general favour,
and the burgesses of Liverpool returned him at the
head of the poll. By speech and vote he threw all
his influence on the side of Clarkson and Wilberforce

in their successful efforts to abolish England's par-
ticipation in the slave trade. Although those who
sent him to the Legislature must have known his
views on this subject, his constituents were highly

                                                   9
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

incensed at his action in thus seeking to destroy, as
they imagined, one of the chief sources of the pros-
perity of the town. Moreover, he had added to the
enormity of his offence by speaking and voting in
favour of Catholic Emancipation. Accordingly, a
mixed and muddled mob of ardent Protestants and
drunken sailors, crews of slave-ships, were gathered
together in order to assail him on his return from

Westminster at the close of the session. A riot

broke out, but his friends had taken timely pre-
cautions, and he escaped without injury. But the
House of Commons had few attractions for him.
He resigned his seat, and nothing would induce
him to seek re-election. He still maintained his
interest in the political movements of the time,
and became a busy pamphleteer, wrote in favour
of the abolition of slavery as a logical consequence
of the abolition of the slave trade ; on Parliamentary

reform ; penal jurisprudence and the treatment of
criminals ; and on national education.

   In 1816 Roscoe, whose prosperity had been hitherto
unbroken, was overtaken by sudden disaster. The
downfall of Napoleon and the termination of the

Continental wars were followed by much financial un-

rest, and a sudden panic seized the bank in which
he was interested. Although perfectly solvent its
assets exceeded its liabilities by more than ^"60,000
it was impossible to realize these assets without grievous
loss ; the bank's credit had been severely shaken, and
it was compelled to stop payment. Roscoe called the
bank's creditors together, explained its condition, and
convinced the majority that with time its position
might be restored. After four years of anxious

                                                         10
                   William Roscoe

efforts to rehabilitate the bank he was forced to

give up the struggle owing to the persistent action
of a small number, who insisted on preferential treat-

ment, and he allowed himself to be made bankrupt.
Allerton, with its beautiful gardens and ample woods,
with all its refinements and delights as a home the

home which had welcomed guests like Aikin and his
daughter Mrs. Barbauld, Dr. Parr the scholar, Fuseli
the painter, Coke of Holkham, Henry Brougham, and

many others eminent in politics, learning, and scholar-

ship had to be given up, together with all its artistic
and literary treasures. Thanks to the care he spent

in cataloguing these works for sale they realized good
prices. Friends vied with each other in preventing
the dispersal of the more valuable books and pictures.
Many of the former were secured for the Atheneum,

on condition that he should be allowed their use, and

they still remain on its shelves. His collection of

early Italian paintings was presented to the Royal
Institution, and is now in the Walker Art Gallery.

   Roscoe received an honourable discharge. He was
now sixty-seven years of age. With such relics from
the wreck of his fortune as could be saved he set

himself heroically to retrieve the disaster which had
befallen him. Literature, which had been the delight
of his leisure, now became his sole remaining prop.

Eleven years were still left to him. He rearranged
the fine library of his friend Coke, edited an issue of

Pope's works, completed the folio monograph on the
monandrian plants, and executed a number of other

compilations. His old age was spent in a serene
dignity which secured for him the friendship of a

iidevoted circle and the universal respect of his towns-
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

men. He had a paralytic attack a year or so before
his death which partially incapacitated him. The
end came peacefully on June 30, 1831.

   A sitting statue of him by Chantrey, as one of

Liverpool's most distinguished citizens, is in the
St. George's Hall, and his name is associated with
the chair of Modern History in the University of
Liverpool.

   Washington Irving, in the " Sketch-book," thus
spoke of him :

    Those who live only for the world and in the world may be cast
down by the frowns of adversity ; but a man like Roscoe is not to
be overcome by the reverses of fortune. They do but drive him in
upon the resources of his own mind. . . . He lives with antiquity
and posterity ; with antiquity in the sweet communion of studious
retirement, and with posterity in the generous aspirings after future
renown. . . . The man of letters who speaks of Liverpool, speaks
of it as the residence of Roscoe. The intelligent traveller who
visits it inquires where Roscoe is to be seen. He is the literary
landmark of the place, indicating its existence to the distant
scholar. He is like Pompey's column at Alexandria, towering
alone in classic dignity.

   Henry Roscoe, the father of the subject of this
biography, was the seventh and youngest son of
Mr. William Roscoe. He was born at Allerton
Hall on April 17, 1799. In physical and mental
characteristics he more nearly resembled his father
than did any other member of the family. He was
educated almost entirely at home, and in constant
companionship with his father, from whom he acquired
a love for rare and curious books and a taste for

literature and art.

   At the time of the panic of 1816, in which his

father was so deeply involved, Henry Roscoe was

                                                              12
Henry Roscoe

serving as a clerk in the bank. After its collapse

he entered a lawyer's office, became a member

of the Inner Temple, and in 1826 was called to

the Bar. He had already turned his attention to

literature, and was supporting himself by his pen.

In 1825 he gained a considerable success in legal
circles by the publication of an elaborate treatise on
" The Law of Actions relating to Real Property,"
and by three small volumes entitled " Westminster
Hall," by his " Law
   In 1828 appeared  and  Lawyers," and     other works.
                     the  first edition of  his " Digest

of the Law of Evidence in the Trials of Actions at

the Nisi Prius Law," which in the next ten years ran

through five editions.     During   1829    and 1830 he
produced a " Digest of  the Law of         of Exchange,"
                                    Bills

which also passed through many editions, and he

contributed to Lardner's Encyclopaedia a volume of
" Lives of Eminent British Lawyers." For some

years he was engaged in the preparation of Parlia-

mentary Bills, and under the direction of Mr. Gregson

drew up the original draft of the Reform Bills of

1831-1832.

   Two years after the death of his father, he pro-
duced the "Life of William Roscoe." This work,

undertaken at the request of the family, was no light
task, on account of the mass of correspondence,
pamphlets, etc., which had to be dealt with. It

was completed during three or four months of the

legal vacation, when rest and change were much
needed. He was already suffering from overwork,
confinement, and lack of exercise, and this additional

tax upon his strength and nervous energy seriously
affected his health.

                          13
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

   Between 1830 and  "18T3h5e  he produced other legal
works, among them,              Digest of the Law of
Evidence in Criminal Cases," and a " General Digest

of Law from 1835-6," and he contributed to many
magazines and journals. In January 1836 he pub-
lished his last work, a pamphlet ''On Pleading the

General Issue." During the previous summer the

serious state of his health compelled him to abandon

the idea of continuing to live in town. He therefore

gave up his house in London and went to reside

at Gateacre, near Liverpool, in the hope that country

air and rural life might improve his condition. He

had been appointed in 1834 Judge of the Court of
Passage, Liverpool, by Lord Brougham, then Lord

Chancellor, and from that year until 1836 he omitted

no weekly sitting.

Unfortunately persistent ill-health, aggravated by

years of overwork and constant strain, had taxed

to the uttermost a delicate constitution, and in

March 1837, after a few weeks of suffering, he died

at the age of thirty-six.

But for his early death he would certainly have

risen to high distinction in his profession.   His

talents and learning, combined with his moral worth

and charming personality, endeared him to his family

and to a large circle of friends.
   An appreciation by Henry Chorley speaks of him

as the most gifted of the sons of the Italian historian

of quick sympathy and solid judgment, and with

such instant justice and strength of decision as

belongs to a truthful, acute, and strong man.

Certain of his legal books were standard works

long after his death. Somebody once asked Sir

                           14
                      Henry Roscoe

Henry Roscoe if " Roscoe on Evidence " was any
connection of his. " No nearer than that of father,"

was the reply.

    In 1831 he married Maria Fletcher, second
daughter of a respected Liverpool merchant, and
chairman of the West Indian Committee,

             An honest man . . .
               Broadcloth without and a warm heart within,

who also was ruined by the failure of a Liverpool
bank. Her maternal grandfather, Dr. William
Enfield, author of a " History of Liverpool " and
of the well-known " Speaker," a man distinguished
for elegance of taste and sound literary judgment,
was the last rector of the famous Warrington
Academy, where he had as colleagues at one time
or another, Joseph Priestley, the chemist ; Taylor
of Norwich ; Aikin, the father of Mrs. Barbauld ;
John Reinhold Forster, the naturalist to one of
Cook's expeditions ; and Gilbert Wakefield, the
editor of " Lucretius."
            CHAPTER II

HENRY ENFIELD ROSCOE BIRTH AND EDUCATION

HENRY ROSCOE brought his young wife to 10 Powis

Place, Great Ormond Street, London, and here on

January 7, 1833, his only son, Henry Enfield Roscoe,

first saw the light. A daughter, Harriet, was born

in 1836.
   The young judge had little opportunity of making

provision for his family, and on his death they were

left with very straitened means. His widow moved

with her children into a small cottage at Gateacre, and

as she had considerable artistic gifts sought to add to

her slender income by teaching water-colour painting

at a girls' school in the vicinity. She also possessed

some of the literary power of her distinguished
grandfather, and in 1868 published a " Life of
Vittoria Colonna," with admirable translations of

the sonnets. She was a strong, vigorous character,
devotedly attached to her son and proud of his

success in life. Her Manchester friends used play-

fully to refer to her as "the Mother of Owens

College," and the allusion to her association with

its fortunes gave her pleasure. She was always

deeply interested in its progress and rejoiced in its

success.    She died at the age of eighty-seven,  fall-
            autumn fruit that mellowed long."
ing " like

            16
                Birth and Education

   Young Roscoe went for a few years to a pre-
paratory school in the neighbourhood of his home.
In 1842 his mother moved her small charges to
Liverpool, when he was sent to the High School
of the Liverpool Institute, among the earliest of
the so-called " modern" schools. He remained here

seven years, taking the usual English subjects
mathematics, French, a little Latin and less Greek,
and some elementary physical science. The school

was furnished with a chemical laboratory a very
unusual provision in those days and in it he
obtained his first lessons in chemical manipulation

from William H. Balmain, the discoverer of " lumi-
nous paint " and of boron nitride. Balmain, who
was one of the early contributors to the then newly

founded Chemical Society, in his published account
of the latter substance apologizes for his inability to

state its exact composition, as he was unable to

obtain a better balance than such as he could
construct himself " of wood and paper" a cir-
cumstance which throws some light upon the
means of instruction in the laboratory which intro-
duced Roscoe to the study of practical chemistry.
 He always had a grateful recollection of his first
instructor, whom he described as a genial fellow,
and a stimulating and original teacher. The boy
also came under the influence of Hugo Reid a
 noteworthy man, and of some reputation at the
time as a writer and teacher of natural philosophy

    and of W. B. Hodgson, an excellent teacher
 of English, who afterwards became Professor of
 Political Economy in the University of Edinburgh.

    Years afterwards, when the "old boy" had become

                                           17 c
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

 a person of some consequence in the world, he was
 invited to distribute the prizes at his school, and told
 his auditors, in the course of a short address, that he
 had come across one of his school reports, addressed
 to his mother, in which it was stated : " Roscoe is a

 nice boy, but he looks about him too much, and does
 not know his irregular verbs." He added that he
thought this early habit of looking about him, which
had persistently clung to him through life, had
possibly done more for him than the irregular verbs.

    Roscoe's mother encouraged his inclination towards
chemical pursuits by providing him with a room at
home in which he could make his experiments, and

such spare cash as he had was devoted to the pur-
chase of chemicals and apparatus. In this manner he
early obtained familiarity with the simpler operations
of practical chemistry and laid the foundations of
that dexterity in manipulation which contributed so
greatly to his success as a lecturer.

    Roscoe's forbears on both sides were of Presby-
terian or Unitarian stock, and the household naturally
moved mainly in Nonconformist circles. These com-
prised some of the most respected and cultured
families in the district the Booths, Yateses, Marti-

neaus, Taylors, Sandbachs : all well-known names
in Lancashire with some of whom his people were

connected by marriage.
   In 1848 he was entered at University College,

London, at that time the only seat of higher learning
and research in England open to men who were
refused admittance to the older Universities on

denominational grounds. Among the teachers in
Gower Street at this period were De Morgan,

                                                               18
                Birth and Education

Francis Newman, Maiden, Sharpey, Graham,

Lindley, Williamson, Jenner, and Listen. No

more remarkable group was to be found in any
institution for higher education in England. Among
Roscoe's contemporaries as students were Lister,
Langton-Sandford, Farrer-Herschell, Bageot, Jessel,
Richard Hutton (who married as first and second
wives two of his cousins), Osier, Henry Thompson,

and Edward Fry all names afterwards distinguished

in law, literature, and medicine.

   Of his teachers at this time, the one who had

most influence in shaping his career was undoubtedly
Thomas Graham, the chemist. Graham had been

elected in 1837, largely through the action of
Lord Brougham, as successor to Edward Turner in
what was then known as the University of London,

founded some nine years previously. Although
nervous and hesitating in manner, and with little
fluency of speech, Graham was a sound and sugges-
tive teacher, whose lectures were characterized by a
philosophic method of exposition, and by accuracy
and breadth of knowledge. These were always care-
fully prepared and well illustrated by experiments.
The greater number in the class were, of course,
medical students, for in those days there were few
followers of pure science, and science faculties and
degrees in science were unknown.

    Roscoe, in entering Graham's class-room, found
himself, as he says, in a new world. One indica-
tion of the eagerness with which he exploited it
may be gleaned from the circumstance that the
enthusiastic young tyro at the end of the session
came out the head of the class and gained the silver

                                                        19
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

medal. His mother and sister soon followed him to

town, and the family lived first in Torrington Square
and next in Camden Town, where his cousin, Stanley

Jevons, the economist, and afterwards one of his

colleagues at Owens College, came to reside with
them. One of his uncles was Mr. Justice Crompton,
who had married into the Fletcher family, and was

a great friend of his father. The judge always took

a strong paternal interest in his nephew, and would

have sent him to Cambridge had he been disposed to

go there. The Crompton cousins were, he says, like
brothers and sisters to him. It was in their drawing-

room in Hyde Park Square that he first met Miss

Lucy Potter, his future wife, then a girl of seventeen.

Roscoe now elected to follow chemistry as a career,

somewhat to   the  dismay of his  relatives, who, he  tells
us, imagined  he   intended " to  open a shop with     red

and blue glass bottles in the window," such being the

external indications of the calling of a chemist in

this country. And no wonder they were perturbed,
for any one not being registered as a " pharmaceutical
chemist," or as a " chemist and druggist," who should

presume to style himself a chemist was punishable with
a fine. Liebig was not altogether well informed of

the facts when he wrote to Berzelius that the English

chemists were ashamed to call themselves such

because the apothecaries had appropriated the name.

It was not so much that they were ashamed as they

were actually prohibited by law. Although nearly

two generations have passed since those days, it may

be doubted whether even now the public mind has

quite grasped the distinction between a chemist

properly so-called and an apothecary.

                   20
                Birth and Education

   Having settled upon his life's work, Roscoe entered
the Birkbeck Laboratory at University College, then
under the direction of Williamson, whom Graham
had just brought over from Paris, where he had been
working with Laurent and Gerhardt. Roscoe had
the highest appreciation of the genius and power ot
Williamson, and pays grateful homage to his memory
in the following extract from his Autobiography :

At the time I entered the laboratory Williamson was engaged in

the researches which have made his name a household word to

chemists all the world over. His was a mind of great originality,

and his personality was a most attractive one. And, despite his

physical disabilities for he lost an eye and the proper use of his

left arm in early childhood he was a diligent and accurate worker.

Ardently devoted to his science, he infected all who worked under

him with the same feeling. And his pupils willingly own that much

of the success that they may have met with in after years was due
Ito his teaching and example.
                               well remember the feelings of

interest he aroused as he each day came down to the laboratory

brimful of new ideas. First it was his explanation of the theory of

etherification, of which he proved the truth by preparing the mixed

ethers, thereby ascertaining the general constitution of alcohols and

ethers, and laying one of the foundation-stones of modern chemistry,

Next it was his well-known paper on the constitution of salts, in

which he enunciated principles which have since been generally

adopted. Then came his views on atomic motion and interchange,

the first definite statement of a series of chemical phenomena which
in the hands of Van't Hoff and others have become of the highest

import. . . . He clearly foresaw the principles upon which the

modern development of the steam-engine depends, and though he

failed for want of constructive skill, he pointed the way which

engineers have since followed with conspicuous success.

   In his second year in the Birkbeck Laboratory
Roscoe became Williamson's private assistant, and
took part in his researches, and when Graham
accepted the Mastership of the Mint, and Williamson

                                                               21
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

succeeded to the chair at University College, Roscoe
was made lecture assistant. Williamson had the idea
at that time of publishing an abridged translation of
Gerhardt's Chimie Organique, for the benefit of
English students, which Roscoe was to prepare, but
nothing came of the project.

   Graham, who had been commissioned to send out
an assayer to the Sydney Mint, offered Roscoe the
position. The salary was very tempting, but as his
mother and sister had no desire to go to Australia,

the offer was declined, and his cousin Stanley Jevons,

who had passed through the Birkbeck Laboratory,
was sent in his stead.

   It was in recognition of Roscoe's association with

Williamson that nearly forty years afterwards he was
deputed, on behalf of the subscribers, to present the
portrait of his master which now hangs in University

College.
   Roscoe took his degree of Bachelor of Arts in the

University of London, with Honours in chemistry, in
1853, and as he was now more than ever determined
to follow a career of science, he decided to enlarge his
experience by a course of study in a continental
laboratory, as was then the usual custom. Of the
great leaders of British chemical science in the first
half of the nineteenth century Dalton, Thomson,
Davy, Faraday, Graham only Thomson and Graham,
and to a limited extent Dalton, were in a position
to exert any influence as teachers, and even in their
case there was little provision of instruction in

practical chemistry.
   The older English universities had practically

nothing of the kind ; their disciplines offered no

                                                       22
                Birth and Education

encouragement to the study of chemical science.
The university which prides itself on having afforded
a home to Boyle extended no opportunity to a man
to make any research unless he found his own labora-
tory and apparatus. Dr. Liveing started the first
laboratory for students in Cambridge at his own
expense in 1852, hiring a cottage in the town for
the purpose. On the other hand, at that time, thanks
to the influence of the French school of chemists ; of
Berzelius in Sweden ; Liebig, Wohler, Mitscherlich,
and the two Roses in Germany, systematic instruction
in chemistry was being actively pursued on the Con-
tinent, and nearly every leading University abroad

could show a more or less well-equipped laboratory,
and a body more or less large of eager and en-
thusiastic investigators. Accordingly, at this period,
aspirants for chemical fame in this country naturally
turned to one or other of the chemical schools in

France or Germany to seek there what they were

unable to find at home.

    Roscoe elected to go to Bunsen, who had recently
been called from Breslau to Heidelberg in succession
to Leopold Gmelin, the author of the well-known
" Handbuch." Bunsen had already won for himself

a European reputation by his masterly investigation
of the cacodyl compounds, by the improvements he
had effected in gasometric methods, by his investiga-
tions on the chemistry of the blast-furnace, his inven-
tion of the carbon-zinc battery and photometer, and
his inquiries into the chemical aspects of the volcanic
and pseudo- volcanic phenomena of Iceland.

   It is perhaps idle to speculate why Roscoe should
have left Williamson at the most fruitful period of

                                                        23
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

his career, and when, under his stimulus, organic

chemistry was apparently about to enter upon a
great development in this country. But the proba-
bility is that then, as afterwards, the problems of

organic chemistry and the purely speculative aspects
of the science had few attractions for him, and that

he saw in the many-sided nature of Bunsen's work, in
its eminently practical character, and the precision of

its quantitative methods, much that appealed to his
inclination towards the operative, and especially the
determinative side of chemistry, for Bunsen was pre-
eminently a master of manipulation, as every one
who aspired to a professional career in chemistry
and who hoped to direct a chemical laboratory

fully recognized.
   Roscoe, with his mother and sister, who elected to

keep house for him, reached Heidelberg in the autumn
of 1853 with an introduction to von Mohl, the Pro-
fessor of International Law, with whose family they
became well acquainted. One of the daughters, Anna
von Mohl, was the second wife of Helmholtz. By
von Mohl he was made known to Bunsen.

I shall never forget (says Roscoe in his Autobiography) my first

...sight of him the man who afterwards became one of my dearest
I Ifriends, and to whom owe more than can tell.  He was

then at the height of his mental and physical powers. He stood

fully six feet high, his manner was simple yet dignified, and his

expression one of rare intelligence and great kindness. This first

impression of his bearing and character only became stronger as

my knowledge of him increased, and the feelings of respect and

Iaffection with which regarded him were those of all with whom

he came in contact. His singular amiability was not a sign of

weakness, but of strength of character. His modesty was natural

and in no degree assumed. In his lectures, when giving an account

of some discovery he had made, or some new apparatus or method

24
                 Birth and Education

Iof work which he had investigated, never heard him mention him-

self. It was always "man hat dies gefunden," or "es hat sich so

 herausgestellt."

    In the cloisters of the old monastery which then
did duty as the Heidelberg laboratory, Roscoe was
first indoctrinated into the art and mystery of quan-
titative chemical analysis, and he there acquired the
familiarity with Bunsen's methods and with his system
of laboratory instruction that he was to turn to such
signal account in the establishment and direction of
the Manchester school of chemistry. Among his
fellow- workers were Lothar Meyer, Pauli, Beilstein,
Pebal, Schischkoff (a Russian officer who investigated
with Bunsen the course of decomposition of fired gun-
powder), Quincke, Bahr, Landolt, Baeyer, Lourengo,
and, amongst Englishmen, Russell, Atkinson, and
Matthiessen a group of well-known names con-
stituting a striking testimony to the influence and
power of attraction of the great German chemist.

   One of Roscoe's earliest quantitative exercises was
in silicate analysis, and his first published paper,
which appeared in Liebigs Annalen for 1854, was
a joint production with Schonfeld on the composition
of certain samples of gneiss.

   At the close of his second session he passed his

doctor's examination summa cum laude, and then

embarked upon the well-known inquiry in associa-
tion with Bunsen on the measurement of the chemical
action of light, which occupied much of his time and
energy during the next eight years.

   In the obituary notices he wrote for Nature of
August 31, 1899, and for the Proceedings of the
Royal Society, and more especially in the admirable

                                                        25
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

Memorial Lecture which he gave to the Chemical
Society, Roscoe has done full justice to the memory
of Bunsen as a great chemist, pre-eminent as a dis-

coverer and teacher, and lovable as a true and noble-

hearted man. The Memorial Lecture was reprinted
in America by the Smithsonian Institute, and trans-

lated into German to be prefixed to the collection
of Bunsen's works published by the Society the
Bunsen-Gesellschaft founded in his honour. In
course of their long and uninterrupted friendship
he received many letters from his illustrious master.
These, 126 in number, were suitably bound and

presented by him to the Bunsen Society.
   Roscoe took advantage of the opportunity afforded

by his residence in Germany to study its university

system, and to make himself familiar with the general
character of its working, and in his vacations he
sought the acquaintance of its leading men of
science, with some of whom he contracted lasting
friendships. In his Autobiography, written in 1906,
he gives expression to the sentiments of respect and

esteem with which he regarded the Germany and his
German friends of half a century ago :

   My knowledge of the Germans and Germany has led me to love

Ithe Fatherland, and, venture to think, to understand as well as

to respect and admire the nation. As to any feelings antagonistic

to England and the English existing in the minds of the many Germans

with whom I became intimate, I never found a trace, for Treitschke
I Idid not know. All with whom ever came in contact expressed

a feeling that England was the old home of freedom, that she had

led the van in securing that freedom by gradual and peaceable

measures, and, in short, that the path in which the Englishman
                                          wished to follow. " We
trod was that    inmew, h"icehxptrheesys  our opinion on political  cannot," my
friends said to                                                     matters with

the freedom to which you in England are accustomed. How

                                          26
                Birth and Education

indeed can this be otherwise, when we are governed by an auto-
cratic power which believes in the divine right of kings, and have
to submit to a condition of things in which summary punishment
for ' Majestatsbeleidigung ' is possible ? "

   In the autumn of 1856 Roscoe returned to London,
and with the help of friends set up a private labora-
tory in Bedford Place, Russell Square, with Wilhelm
Dittmar to assist him in research work. He also
obtained employment as a science lecturer at an
army school at Eltham, and did some analytical
work on ventilation for a Departmental Committee,
the results of which were published in a Blue-book,

and also in the Journal of the Chemical Society, 1

   The London venture was very short-lived, for in
the following year Frankland, the first Professor of
Chemistry in the recently founded Owens College,
Manchester, resigned his appointment, and Roscoe,
who was able to produce satisfactory testimonials
from Bunsen, Liebig, Graham, Williamson, and
others, offered himself as a candidate for the vacant
chair and was appointed.

   1 " Some Chemical Facts Respecting the Atmosphere of Dwelling-
houses." By H. E. Roscoe. Chem. Soc. Jour. X. (1858), pp. 251 -268.
                  CHAPTER III

                     OWENS COLLEGE, MANCHESTER

OWENS COLLEGE had its origin in a bequest of John
Owens, a merchant of Manchester, who left the bulk
of his fortune to trustees to found a collegiate institu-
tion in Manchester, open to persons of every variety
of creed and free from every religious test. He was
born in 1790, the son of Owen Owens, a Flintshire
man, who settled in Manchester in early life and
established a small business as a hat-lining cutter and
furrier. Some time after 1815 Owen Owens took
his son into partnership, when the firm extended the
scope of their business and became general merchants,
shipping calicoes and coarse woollens to China, India,
South America, and New York, and importing hides,
wheat, and other produce in return.

   John Owens was described as possessing a good
deal of hard-headedness and practical common sense,
a keen buyer and a good payer, very methodical in
his habits and operations, and who acted up to his
favourite motto, Honestas optima politia. He was
a staunch Dissenter and a " stalwart " Radical, a
shy, silent man, known only to a few intimates,
a misogamist, if not actually a misogynist, of no
great intellectual ability, and with few cultured
tastes, nor, so far as can be gathered, particularly

                                                        28
Owens College, Manchester

friendly to learning. There is reason to believe
that his first intention was to leave the greater part
of his fortune to his lifelong friend and former
schoolfellow, George Faulkner, a well-known and

prosperous Manchester merchant, who in declining
it appears to have suggested the idea of founding
a college in Manchester. The suggestion took root.
In developing it Owens seems to have been mainly
moved by a feeling of bitterness against a system
which imposed subscription to articles and creeds

on a young man before he could be admitted to

the ancient Universities.

   He was determined to break down this injustice so far as he was
able ; he therefore made the trust subject to " the fundamental and
immutable rule and condition . . . that the students, professors,

teachers, and other officers and persons connected with the said
institution shall not be required to make any declaration as to,
or submit to any test whatsoever of, their religious opinions,
and that nothing shall be introduced in the matter or mode of
education or instruction in reference to any religious or theological
subject which shall be reasonably offensive to the conscience of any
student, or of his relations, guardians, or friends, under whose

immediate care he shall be." 1

   John Owens died, unmarried, in July 1846, at the
age of fifty-five. Mr. George Faulkner, who had
been named as one of the executors, proceeded to
carry out the provisions of the will. The estate took

some years to realize, and the accounts were not

finally closed until 1857, when the total sum received
for the purposes of the college amounted to ,96,942

    not a very large amount considered as endowment,
but still sufficient, viewed from the standpoint of the

   1 "The Owens College: its Foundation and            Growth."  By

Joseph Thompson. Manchester : J. E. Cornish.

                                                   29
  The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

middle of last century, to enable a modest start to be
made, with prudent management on the part of the
trustees, and a reasonable amount of sympathy and
goodwill on the part of the community that was to be

benefited.

    The executors, without waiting for the complete
realization of the estate, proceeded to execute the
provisions of the bequest as regards the projected
college. In the selection of the trustees appointed
to carry out his intentions John Owens acted with
sound judgment and a wise liberality. It is evident
from the terms of the will that he had given con-
siderable thought to the character of the institution
he wished to found. But in spite of all his care and
of the legal skill with which his wishes were ex-

pressed, the theological difficulty managed to creep
in, and ingenious casuists raised doubts and dif-
ferences of opinion concerning the interpretation of
the testator's will in regard to religious instruction.
This occasioned delay, and a certain amount of sec-

tarian jealousy and unfriendly feeling was stirred up
which acted prejudicially against the new institution
for some years after its establishment.

   The College was formally opened in March 1851.

Its first Principal was Mr. A. J. Scott, who was

Professor of English Literature in University College
when Roscoe studied there. In addition to being
Principal he was appointed Professor of Logic,
Mental and Moral Philosophy, and English Language
and Literature. The circumstance that he undertook,
with the consent of the trustees, to give courses of
lectures on " The Influence of Religion in Relation to
the Life of the Scholar," was one cause of the hubbub

                                                        30
            Owens College, Manchester

which was raised in the town and which brought the
Church party to the support of the trustees who had
sanctioned these courses. Other teachers were Mr.

J. G. Greenwood, Professor of the Language and

Literature of Greece and Rome ; Mr. Archibald
Sandeman, Professor of Mathematics ; Dr. Edward
Frankland, Professor of Chemistry ; Mr. W. C.
Williamson, Professor of Natural History, Botany,
and Geology ; Mr. T. Theodores, teacher of Ger-
man, Hebrew, and Oriental languages ; and M.
Podevin, teacher of French.

    The College was located in what had been a
private house, formerly the residence of Richard
Cobden, and situated in a dreary and somewhat dis-
reputable neighbourhood in the vicinity of Deansgate,
one of the main thoroughfares of the poorer quarters
of the city. This building was purchased from Mr.
Cobden by Mr. George Faulkner, the chairman of
the trustees, and was subsequently conveyed by him

to the other trustees as an absolute donation for the

benefit of the College. As it was unsuited for the
provision of a chemical laboratory, the trustees deter-
mined to erect at the rear of the house a building

specially designed for the purpose ; but as they were
precluded from using any of the corpus of the estate
for building, they raised a sum of nearly ; 10,000
for the installation of a chemical laboratory and
lecture theatre, the formation of a library and for

general purposes. The chemical laboratory, which
was planned under the direction of Dr. Frankland,
could accommodate about fifty workers ; it was con-
veniently arranged, and was indeed one of the best

of its kind at the period of its erection.
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

   The College made a fairly auspicious start as
regards numbers, but for various reasons such
popularity as it had rapidly declined, and each
succeeding session saw a diminished entry. At the
time Roscoe joined the students numbered only
thirty-five, of whom fifteen were working in the

chemical department.

   We gather from the reports of the professors to
the trustees that many causes contributed to retard
the progress of the institution. Curiously enough,
one of the chief of these was what was subsequently
considered the chief glory of the foundation, namely,
its unsectarian character. But another and more

practical reason was that the generally unsatisfactory
character of the school work of the students pre-
vented them from obtaining full advantage of the
College courses. In fact, the training afforded by
the College was beyond the desires of the people.
Higher education was not considered by Manchester
as requisite for the accumulation of wealth. In those
days lack of education had little or no effect on the
social position of its moneyed men. They were
inclined to think that a highly educated youth was
unfitted for the routine work of a counting-house
and was of little use as a salesman on the floor of

the Exchange.
   But there were doubtless other causes of a different

nature. It was unfortunate for the College that the
days of its infancy should be cast in the troubled
times of the Crimean War and the Indian Mutiny

    events which dislocated trade and affected the

prosperity of the district.
   It was significant of what the town thought of the

                                                        32
           Owens College, Manchester

financial outlook of the College that the new pro-
fessor should be refused the tenancy of a house when
the landlord learned that he was one of its staff.

    Its ill-success was the subject of leading articles in
the local press. The Manchester Guardian of July 9,
1858, wrote: "Explain it as we may, the fact is
certain that this College, which eight years ago it was
hoped would form the nucleus of a Manchester
university, is a mortifying failure." And Professor
Roscoe was blamed for not awarding the Dalton
scholarship because he had the hardihood to say that
none of the laboratory students was sufficiently
qualified to be worthy of it. The Manchester
Examiner was somewhat more appreciative of the
efforts of the little band who were gallantly striving
to raise the very low standard of middle-class educa-

tion in Manchester at that time.

      said) to look for the causes of non-success
IfWe are compelled
it
    is
               it
                   is

                                  (it
                                                       it
                                                                  is
                                                                                              is
                                                                                                                  is
elsewhere than in the collegiate machinery.  an objection can be

raised against the College at all,  that such an institution

either in advance of our felt wants, or altogether unsuited to the

economical conditions of Manchester life. Still, this the fault of

the community, not of the College. The worst that can be said of

that  too good for us.

   This might certainly be said, in a certain sense, of
the first Principal of the College. Excellent in many

respects as a man, and inspiring as a teacher, he was
altogether unfitted to direct the development of the
young and struggling institution in such a community

and at such a time.

    Principal Scott, whom Mrs. Oliphant described as

"a man whose powerful, wilful, and fastidious mind

has produced upon all other capable minds an impres-

                                                       33
                                             D
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

sion of force and ability which no practical result has
yet adequately carried out," had little constructive or

directive power. Earnest, upright, and conscientious,
he was essentially an idealist almost a visionary
a man of words forceful and even eloquent at
times but with no capacity for action. As a thinker
he lived a strenuous and exhaustive life. Although
only forty-six at the date of his appointment, his
constitution, never very robust, was already under-

mined and his nervous energy impaired. He was

frequently ill, and his repeated absences from the
College necessarily interfered with his administrative
work. After struggling for six years with the duties
and responsibilities of a position for which circum-
stances and the times in nowise fitted him, he tendered

his resignation as Principal a few months before
Roscoe was appointed to the chair of Chemistry and
was succeeded by Professor Greenwood.

   The public criticism to which the College was
subjected was not altogether without a salutary effect
on its policy. It must be remembered that it was the
first attempt of the kind to bring the higher training,
and something of the spirit of collegiate life, directly
within the reach of the middle-class youth of a great
business community, and it was necessary to have
some regard to the conditions of the district and its
special requirements and, it may be added, even its

peculiar prejudices.
    Roscoe's antecedents, his associations with Lanca-

shire, and his knowledge of and sympathy with what
is strongest and best in the Lancashire character,
made him quick to realize the factors upon which the
ultimate success of the institution depended. It was

                                                  34
           Owens College, Manchester

no use for it to set itself athwart the economical

conditions of the community. Young as he was he

was then twenty-four he was perhaps more alive to
the practical necessities of the position than the
majority of his colleagues.

   He quickly revealed himself as the man of the
hour. His accession to the College at this crisis
was the turning-point in its career. He brought new
vigour and a fresh spirit into its policy, and from that
time forward its fortunes began steadily to mend.

   As regards his own department, it was his ambition
to establish at Owens College a school of chemistry
which should worthily serve the interests of the
great manufacturing district of South Lancashire
the largest and most important seat of chemical

industry in the kingdom. Associated with him in
this effort, he had as assistants Frederick Guthrie,
who, on his appointment to the chair of Chemistry
at the Royal College in Mauritius, was succeeded
by Dittmar, and afterwards by Schorlemmer all
men of originality and admirable teachers. Schor-
lemmer spent the greater part of his life in
Manchester, and died in the service of the College,
latterly as Professor of Organic Chemistry the first

to be so designated in the kingdom. His connection

with the institution is commemorated by the asso-
ciation of his name with one of the chemical

laboratories of the Victoria University. His co-
operation with Roscoe in the production of the
well-known treatise which bears their joint names

will be referred to later.

    Roscoe from the outset threw himself heartily into
the educational and scientific activities of the com-

                                                              35
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

munity in which he was to make his home for the
next thirty years. He joined the Philosophical
Society of Manchester so honourably associated
with the name and fame of Dalton. Founded in

1781, the Society has played a worthy part in

the intellectual life of Manchester. In the second
year of its existence one of its members the
Rev. Dr. Barnes drew up " proposals for establish-
ing in Manchester a plan of liberal education for

young men designed for civil and active life,
whether in trade or in any of the professions,"
which may be said to have anticipated the founda-
tion of Owens College. The management was to be

free from sectarian exclusiveness. " A plan formed

for public utility should be generous and enlarged,
so as to extend itself as widely as possible for the
common interest. Science and arts are of no political
or religious party." These liberal sentiments com-
mended themselves to the Society, who ordered that
the paper should "be printed and offered to the
consideration of the public." The seed fell on stony

ground at the time and made only a feeble attempt
to germinate ; two generations had to come and go
before it definitely took root.

    Roscoe quickly acquired an influential position in
the Philosophical Society. He served for many

years as its secretary, and ultimately became its
president. He was the first recipient of its Dalton
medal, awarded to him in recognition of his efforts
to throw light upon the reasoning which led Dalton
to the formulation of his great generalization, by
the publication in association with his friend and

former pupil, Dr. Harden, of "A New View of

                                                       36
           Owens College, Manchester

the Origin of Dalton's Atomic Theory " (London :
Macmillan & Co., Ltd.), based upon Dalton's manu-

scripts and laboratory note-books in the possession
of the Society. The book will be referred to at

greater length when considering Roscoe's contribu-
tions in general to the literature of chemistry.

    In the Society at the time Roscoe joined it were
several men of scientific eminence, or who played
notable parts in the industrial life of the district
among them Joule, Schunck, Fairbairn, W. C.
Williamson, Angus Smith, and Grace Calvert.
Joule, a pupil of Dal ton, a shy, retiring man, was
several times President of the Society, and Roscoe,
who greatly admired his character and powers as
an original thinker, became one of his most intimate
friends. In the later years of his life Joule, who
was a member of a brewing firm at Stone in
Staffordshire, suffered great reverses of fortune, and

was only saved from actual poverty by the grant

of a Civil List pension, which Roscoe, with the
help of Tyndall, Huxley, and other friends of science,
was instrumental in obtaining. A letter which Roscoe
wrote to the Times resulted in the creation of the

Joule Memorial Fund, administered by the Royal
Society. It takes the form of an international

studentship or grant to assist research in those
branches of physical science more immediately con-

nected with Joule's work. With the assistance of
Lord Kelvin, he secured the placing of a tablet to

Joule's memory in Westminster Abbey.

   In the vestibule of the Manchester Town Hall a

life-size marble statue by Gilbert of the discoverer
of the Law of the Conservation of Energy stands

                                                       37
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

opposite to a statue of the author of the Atomic
Theory. It was unveiled in 1893 by Joule's most
intimate scientific friend, Lord Kelvin. Concerning
this unveiling, Roscoe could occasionally be induced
to tell a story. In proposing a vote of thanks to
Lord Kelvin, he stated that one inducement that

drew him to Manchester was that he might sit at
the feet of Joule, whose name was as well known
on the Continent as that of Newton, but he found
that all that the Manchester of that day knew of
Joule was his Stone Ales. One of his lady audi-
tors, in complimenting him upon his little speech,

observed : " Of course I quite understood your
remark about sitting at Dr. Joule's feet, but why
make allusion to his toe-nails!"

   The visit of the British Association to Manchester
in 1 86 1, when Roscoe served as one of the local
secretaries, afforded him an excellent opportunity of
showing his organizing powers and business aptitudes.

   These were still further demonstrated in the winter
of 1862, during the memorable cotton famine in
Lancashire, when he acted as one of the secretaries to

a committee created to provide some form of intellec-
tual occupation for the thousands of operatives thrown
out of employment by the stoppage of the staple
industry of the district. He gave lectures, illustrated

by experiments, on subjects likely to attract a
working-class audience. These were highly popular,
and undoubtedly awakened a general interest in
scientific matters in quarters which knew nothing of
science. Their success encouraged him to institute
the series of Science Lectures for the People, which
he began in 1866, and carried on for eleven con-

                                                        38
           Owens College, Manchester

secutive winters. In this movement he secured the
co-operation, amongst others, of Huxley, Carpenter,
Tyndall, Huggins, Lord Avebury, Abel, Stanley
Jevons, Clifford, and Spottiswoode. The lectures
were given in some of the largest public halls in the
city, and were attended by thousands. They were
published week by week as delivered, and were sold
for a penny all over the world.

    In 1874 the writer, then recently appointed to the
newly founded Yorkshire College at Leeds, had the
privilege of taking part in these courses, when he
undertook to give some account of the life and work
of Joseph Priestley, the chemist, who, as already
stated, was a colleague of Dr. Enfield at the
Warrington Academy.

   Mrs. Roscoe, the mother of the subject of this
memoir, then an old lady of seventy-six, who had
shown the writer many kindnesses during his

student-days at Owens College, was pleased to
interest herself in this lecture and, unsolicited, to

write the following characteristic and charming little
sketch of Priestley and his wife as a contribution to

the subject.

                           10 YORK PLACE, OXFORD ROAD,

                               November 12 [1874].

MY DEAR PROFESSOR,

I have a few particulars at your service for your lecture

on Priestley if you intend to sketch his character, which was a fine
Iexample for working-men.
                           should be glad to send you the papers
if you will return them. You of course have Huxley's enlarged

notice in the Contemporary^ which is very good and full.

His poverty, energy, and extreme industry raised him from the

humblest condition. His first place of Christian ministry for three

years was at a small chapel at Needham, and his stipend only ^30

                           39
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

a year, to which he added a small school. Here he bought a pair

of globes (made by John Senex, F.R.S.). When he removed to

Nantwich, where he was minister for three years, he took the globes

with him, and also kept a small school. There he bought a small

air-pump and an electrical machine and a few books, going on with

"Ipreaching, teaching schools, and learning himself. He says :

was barely able, with the greatest economy, to keep out of debt

but this I always made a point of." (The globes and the first

electrical machine belong to friends of mine. M. R.)
   In 1761 he removed to Warrington, where he remained six years,

connected with the Academy there. Here he married his wife a

most admirable woman      who   excelled so greatly in ruling the home
                          give  his whole time to the prosecution of
that " it allowed him to

his studies and other duties." Her behaviour during the Persecu-

tion and Emigration to America was above all praise. She said of

herself: "There is something inherent in me which always makes

Ime swim to the top of affliction, so that am ready to pop out to
Ithe first friendly hand that offers assistance otherwise am sur-
Iprised at myself that have borne it so well, and greatly rejoiced

that Dr. Priestley has kept up under all the malignity that attended

the riots. Our property may be said to be entirely destroyed, the

few remains that have been picked up so demolished as to be of

little value." The loss of books, MSS., and instruments was valued

at ;io,ooo.

There is an interesting chapter on visiting Priestley's grave in

Harriet Martineau's "Retrospect of Western Travel," vol. i. pp. 175-

I90. Also a poetical account of the uses of oxygen by George

Dawson of Birmingham, which cut out for you. The list of all

Priestley's works and portraits, medallions and engravings, as well

as remains of other kinds, is given by Rev. James Yates, and
appended to the Life of Priestley by Hutt.

Priestley was driven from England in 1794, and Lavoisier was

guillotined in the same year at Paris after confiscation of all his

property; and it was in 1874 that Birmingham was "made to eat

humble-pie" by erecting a statue to Priestley's memory on the

centenary of his great discovery.

  I hope you have made a good beginning at Leeds and will never-

theless not be too busy to read this note and to excuse my troubling

you.

                                    Very truly yours,

                                    MARIA ROSCOE.

                                40
          Owens College, Manchester

   Of the stimulating influence of these Penny Lec-

tures Roscoe received abundant testimony : in after-

life he frequently met persons, some occupying a high
and responsible position in commerce and industry,
who informed him that they were indebted to them
for their first interest in science. One such person
was the late Mr. Thomas Parker, a self-made man,
and founder of the well-known electrical firm of

Elwell-Parker.
    Services such as these, combined with Roscoe's

growing popularity and influence, necessarily reacted
favourably upon the fortunes of the College, and it
steadily grew in favour. The chemical department
especially increased in numbers, and the laboratory
soon became inadequate to accommodate the students,
who came to it from all parts of England, attracted

by its fame as a chemical school.
   The prospects of the College were now so well

assured that in 1865 the governing body and the
professors began to consider the desirability of extend-
ing its scheme of studies, and, what at the moment
was even more urgent, providing new and greatly
increased accommodation. Owing to the adverse state
of trade at the time, no immediate steps were possible;

but in 1867 a town's meeting resolved "That the time
had come for the public of the district to unite for the
purpose of developing the College on a more compre-

hensive scale, and in appropriate and convenient

buildings." An executive committee, on which

Roscoe was placed, was appointed to carry out this

and certain consequential resolutions. He was also

required to serve on various sub-committees, dealing
with the new site, buildings, extension and re-
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

arrangement of courses of study. It says much for

the influence and weight he had now acquired in the
counsels of the College, and for the confidence reposed
in his judgment and business capacity, that no other
member of the staff was called upon to take so large
and so responsible a share in the extension movement.

   The new Constitution as settled by the extension
committee, to the extent that it modified or enlarged
the original scheme of the founder, necessitated an
application for a Bill in Parliament. The action
of the Governing Body in enlarging the scope of

the College was generally approved and was warmly
supported, amongst others by Mr. Freeman the
historian. He considered that the members of the

two ancient Universities ought to feel, and he was
sure that they largely did feel, a special sympathy in
the planting of an institution like Owens College in
such a city as Manchester.

It was called a college, but it had really much more of the

character of a university ; and it was as a new university in Man-

chester that he was ready and delighted to welcome it. It was a
great and noble work which had been begun in their city. . . . He

looked then upon Owens College as a university rising in a great

city ; neither did he look on a great city as an unfitting place for a

great university. As a rule, the ancient universities of Europe had

arisen in great cities. Owens College, unlike most modern institu-

tions, did not begin with a building. Here was a college which had

been at work for a good many years, and the common academical

buildings were only now being planned. This was just as it should

be ; at any rate it was just in the spirit of the old founders. They
Ifgot their men first, and let the buildings come afterwards.
                                                               Owens

College had hitherto to do with makeshift buildings, it was just what

the old colleges of Oxford did for a while, and in both cases for the

same reason, because the college itself, the living members of the

college, came first in the ideas of the founders, and the material

house existed for their sake only.

42
           Owens College, Manchester

The draft of the new Constitution was prepared,

under the direction of a sub-committee, by Mr. James
Bryce, now Lord Bryce, then Regius Professor of
Civil Law at Oxford, and formerly Professor of

Jurisprudence and Law at Owens College. A Bill

was next drafted to enable the College to procure

modifications of certain features of John Owens's

foundation, and Roscoe was requested to sign as one

of the promoters of the petition for the Owens
College, Manchester, Bill, 1870. This Bill met
with a certain amount of parliamentary opposition,

mainly in the House of Lords, where it was first in-

troduced.  It was alleged that it was a Bill for

incorporating a non-existent charity, enabling it to

annex the property of another charity and to set

aside to a great extent the expressed intention of the

founder. Objections also were raised in Manchester

itself by the executor of the late chairman of trustees,

on the ground that it was proposed to include

females as students of the College. The pro-

moters met both the parliamentary and local

opposition with skill and judgment. The Lords

passed the second reading by a majority of nearly

six to one, and as no petitions were lodged against

it after lying on the table for forty days, it was

read a third time and passed. In the Commons the

Bill was read a first and second time without opposi-

tion. A difficulty was threatened in Committee in

regard to the inclusion of the words, "A college

wherein young persons, including if and when the

proper authorities of the College so direct, persons of
the female sex, may receive instruction." This was

stayed by the promoters agreeing to accept in lieu

           43
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

the words "such young persons as the proper
authorities of the College may from time to time
direct " a sapient amendment which made little or

no essential difference when the inclusion of women

came to be dealt with as a practical question. The
Owens College Extension Act received the royal
assent in July 1870.

   The foundation-stone of the first block of the new

buildings was laid by the Duke of Devonshire, the
first President of the Owens College, on September
23, 1870. The design of the chemical laboratories
was wholly inspired by Roscoe, after a careful ex-

amination of every continental example that might
furnish suggestions concerning internal arrangements

and fittings, the details being admirably carried out

by the late Mr. Alfred Waterhouse, R.A. It is not

too much to say that these laboratories have served

as models for practically every chemical laboratory
which has been subsequently built in this country
or abroad.

Roscoe's interest in the new buildings was not

by any means exclusively confined to his own

department. As a member of the building com-

mittee he took an active and leading part in its

work generally. The position he thus acquired

may be illustrated by the following story. When

Principal Greenwood was asked how many master-

"keTyhs rewe:oulodne  be    needed by   the  staff, he replied :
                       for  me because  I'm  Principal; one for

Ward as Pro-Principal, and one for Roscoe because

he is Roscoe."

   The actual incorporation of John Owens's trust
within the scheme of the extended College could only

                            44
           Owens College, Manchester

be effected with the sanction of the Charity Com-
missioners. There was no difficulty in the trustees
of the original College and the governors of the
enlarged institution coming to an agreement. The
difficulty was raised by the Charitable Trusts Com-
missioners, and it again arose on the question of
the "eternal feminine,'* the inclusion of women

being held to be a departure from the expressed
objects of Owens's foundation. After a lengthy
correspondence this and certain other points raised
by the Commissioners were adjusted, when a Con-
firming Bill was introduced into Parliament ; it passed
through both Houses and received the royal assent

in July 1871.
   The Owens College was now free to develop

towards that consummation to which all friends of

education desired it should proceed.

   It had gradually enlarged the scheme of its studies
so as to include nearly every department of learning,

other than theology, professed at the older univer-

sities. It was inevitable therefore that sooner or

later it should seek for university powers. That this

was to be its goal was clearly foreseen by all who

were actively engaged in its extension. The main
difference of opinion was as to whether the time
was opportune. Many distinguished friends of the
College, who had watched its development, were of

opinion in the late 'seventies that it had already

attained a university position, and that steps should
then be taken to make it the university of Man-

chester.

    The idea of a Manchester university was not by
any means new. It was as old, indeed, as 1640,

                                                       45
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

when Henry Fairfax, Rector of Ashton-under-Lyne,
moved his brother, the second Lord Fairfax, to
petition the Long Parliament

" for an university to be erected at Manchester, as the want of an
university in the northern parts of this kingdom, both in this and
former ages, hath been apprehended a great prejudice to the
kingdom in general, but a greater misery and unhappiness to these
countries in particular, many ripe and hopeful wits being utterly
lost for want of education, some being unable, others unwilling,
to commit their children of tender and unsettled age so far from
their own eyes, to the sole care and tuition of strangers."

Lord Fairfax replied that this could not be done

except by a Bill in Parliament, "which will be a

[66charge of one hundred marks at least  135. 4d.],

too much to be hazarded on so great an uncertainty."

   The successive stages in the growth of this con-
ception are given in Mr. Joseph Thompson's
" History of Owens College." These can only be

shortly indicated here.

   The establishment of a university at Manchester
was boldly advocated in 1829 by Mr. W. R. Whatton,
who contemplated the alteration and extension of the

plan of the existing Royal Institution for the purpose,

and drew up a scheme of higher education on a wide
and liberal basis. Mr. Whatton combated the objec-

tions which were raised with considerable skill, but
the " religious difficulty " got mixed up with the

controversy : it proved insurmountable and nothing

came of the project. In 1836, Mr. H. L. Jones

read a paper before the Manchester Statistical

Society on a plan of a university for the town of

Manchester, which was subsequently published in

pamphlet form at the expense of the late Mr. James

                         46
          Owens College, Manchester                    it
                                                                         it is,
Heywood, F.R.S., a well-known Manchester worthy.
Mr. Jones, who was a member of the University of
Cambridge, was a strong advocate of university
reform and of the principle of introducing university

culture into the larger industrial centres, in a form

suited to the intellectual needs of modern life. An

attempt was made to put the scheme into effect,

but it died of inanition in a few months. It
however, interesting to note that many details of
Mr. Jones's plan foreshadowed what were subse-
quently adopted in the arrangements of John Owens's
foundation. Naturally the idea eventually centred
itself in this institution. The language of the local
newspaper Press in the early days of the College,

even when its fortunes were at their lowest ebb,

clearly indicates what was the hope and aspiration
of the more public-spirited and thoughtful of the

community. As the College grew and prospered,

their hope was strengthened and their aspiration
encouraged by friends of education from the older
universities like Freeman the historian, by men of
science like Lord Kelvin, Huxley, and Brodie, and
by public men like Lord Bryce and the late Lord

Avebury.
   With the provision of new buildings, spacious

class-rooms and admirable laboratories, designed by
an artist who has left the impress of his genius

upon some of the most noteworthy architectural
features of the city, Manchester now realized that
possessed a temple of learning of which might well
be proud. And there can be little doubt that this
fact quickened the local feeling in favour of the
realization of that hope which, however faint at times,

                                                   47
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

had persisted, in spite of many disappointments,

for more than two hundred years. A few months

after the College had been installed in its new

premises, Roscoe and his colleagues, Professor

Ward now Sir A. W. Ward, the Master of Peter-

house, Cambridge who was then Professor of

History in Manchester, Principal Greenwood, and

Professor Morgan, took the first effective steps

towards this consummation.  The historian of

Owens College thus testifies to their action :

   It is to the zeal and untiring devotion of these four gentlemen

(wrote Mr. Joseph Thompson) that Manchester owes its university ;
others cordially supported the movement, but they, through five

weary years, placed their case before the public, removed prejudices,

advanced good arguments, and lived down opposition.

   Roscoe has himself told the story of how he

attempted to move Lancashire through the local
Press, and strove to create a public opinion in favour
of the project, for, as he clearly recognized, without
public support nothing could be accomplished. He
sought to show how the establishment of a new
university in the North would benefit the great middle
classes of the community in which it was placed, and

what its influence might be expected to be upon the
great hives of industry in the most densely populated

districts of the kingdom. It was, he said, to be " The
University of the Busy," as distinguished from the
old universities of Oxford and Cambridge "The
Universities of the Wealthy." He pointed to the

existence of the Scottish universities, and explained
what their influence had been for generations back
on the middle and poorer classes of their country,

                                                  4$
           Owens College, Manchester

Was not Lancashire, with its many populous manu-
facturing towns, as fully entitled to the advantages
of a university as the cities over the Border ? The
time had passed for imagining that Oxford and

Cambridge, rich and powerful though they were,
could do all that England legitimately required in
the way of the highest academic culture. Where
was the evidence that the establishment of provincial
universities would lower the tone of higher educa-
tion, or that the creation of new avenues to degrees
would injuriously affect the reputation of those
symbols of culture? That "many ripe and hopeful
wits" among the youth of Manchester were well
qualified for and desirous of receiving university
training, but who, for a variety of reasons, could not
go to the older universities, was no less true now
than in Cromwell's time. Moreover, it must be

admitted, there is a great deal in the genius loci.
That spirit had succeeded in developing John Owens's
foundation into a splendid institution suited to the
local life and requirements. They in Manchester
knew what the busy North wanted, but they were
not quite so sure that the Dons of Oxford and
Cambridge knew it as well as they themselves did.
They asked to be allowed to work out their own
salvation in their own way. They were already to

all intents and purposes a university ; their students
were university students in age and education, and
their courses of instruction were fully up to university
standard, and their yearly entry would compare not
unfavourably with that of many universities in our

own and other countries.

    Other arguments were adduced, possible objec-
                                              49 E
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

tions were anticipated and met, and a strong case
was established. The senate, however, moved
cautiously. They proceeded to collect and circulate
opinions on the propriety of seeking a university
charter, and eventually the matter was brought
before the court of governors, who appointed a
special committee, on which Roscoe was placed, to

consider and report upon the whole subject. A

considerable number of persons, heads of colleges,
university teachers, and others eminent in the educa-
tional world, or who had identified themselves with
educational movements, were consulted, and with
the consent of the writers their replies were col-
lected and distributed to the leading newspapers
and journals with a view to elicit public opinion.
An analysis of the general feeling so far as it could
be ascertained from newspaper and other criticism
was made by Roscoe in concert with Principal
Greenwood and Professor Ward, and laid before
the special committee. The Liverpool Daily Post
was adverse to the project, for reasons which will
appear subsequently. The late Lord Sherbrooke,
who, as the Rt. Hon. Robert Lowe, at that time
represented the University of London, was equally
condemnatory in the pages of the Fortnightly
Review. But the preponderating opinion was un-
doubtedly favourable.

   The committee reported, some six months after its

appointment, to a special meeting of the governors,
when it was resolved, with practical unanimity, that it

was expedient to take such steps as might be calcu-
lated to promote the success of the proposal to seek
for the Owens College a charter as a university

                                                       50
           Owens College, Manchester

granting degrees. A memorial was presented to the

Privy Council through the Lord President of the
Council (the Duke of Richmond and Gordon), pray-
ing for the grant of a charter to the College con-
ferring upon it the rank of a university, to be called
the University of Manchester, with power to grant
degrees in arts, science, medicine, and law. The

memorial was influentially supported by eminent men,
who recapitulated the arguments which had led the

governors to their decision ; it was further supported
by memorials from the corporations of the chief
towns of Lancashire (Liverpool excepted), and from
a number of public bodies and educational institu-

tions in the county.
   The very success of Owens College as an educa-

tional agency in the town and district in which it was

situated was, for the moment, the cause of opposition
to its attempt to obtain for itself university powers.
Other towns, conscious of the benefit of such institu-

tions, were seeking to establish colleges of the type of
Owens College, and which it was hoped might ulti-
mately develop into universities. Leeds had founded
the Yorkshire College in 1874. Originally started as
a science college, and with special reference to the
educational requirements of the industries of the dis-

trict, its scope had been rapidly enlarged so as to

include arts and languages. It had already estab-

lished relations with the local medical school, and its

development as a college was not very dissimilar from

that of Owens prior to the extension movement. At

that time it had upwards of four hundred students

registered occasional, medical, and evening with some
eighteen professors, instructors, and assistants, and an
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

income from fees of about ,1,500. The governing
body of the Yorkshire College, and others interested
in its progress, therefore viewed with some apprehen-
sion the establishment of a degree-granting body so
close to its own area. The majority were not opposed
to the creation of another university in the north of
England, provided that the interests of their own
college were safe-guarded. They desired that the
charter of the contemplated university might be so
modified as to admit of the inclusion of other institu-
tions of collegiate rank which might be able to fulfil
the conditions of incorporation as constituent colleges
with a definite share in its government. This, indeed,
was actually contemplated by the promoters of the
Manchester University, but the terms of incorporation
were, in the opinion of Yorkshire, not sufficiently well
defined, and there were other conditions which failed

to satisfy local aspirations. The friends of the young
College were keen and active ; the Leeds Press took
up their cause, and public opinion in the district set
strongly in their favour.

   As the action of the neighbouring county was

successful in effecting certain fundamental modifica-
tions in the Constitution of the proposed new

University, it may be desirable to give some
account of the origin and growth of the Yorkshire
College up to the period with which we are now
concerned, and to point out the reasons which
seemed to its friends to justify their efforts to safe-
guard its position in the interests of the higher
education of an industrial community hardly less
populous than that of Manchester and its immediate

vicinity.

                                                        52
                     CHAPTER IV

                          THE YORKSHIRE COLLEGE

THE Yorkshire College of Science, as it was first
styled, had its origin in the general movement to-
wards a fuller recognition of the duty of the com-
munity in regard to national education, of which the
Education Act of 1870, the Technical Instruction
Act of 1889, and the more comprehensive Education
Act of 1902 were at once the signs and the practical
outcome. The immediate cause of the creation of
the College may, however, be said to have been
found in the Paris Universal Exhibition of 1867.
One of the reporters of that exhibition was a well-
known Leeds merchant, the late Mr. Thomas
Nussey. In a report in vol. iii of the General
Reports, Mr. Nussey drew attention to the great
advance that had been made since the London
Exhibition of 1862 in the quality, style, and cheapness
of production of the foreign exhibits. Whilst he
was of opinion that Great Britain might still be said
to maintain its pre-eminent position in the woollen
industry, Leeds and the West Riding generally had
failed in many classes to make the best use of their
opportunities. He proceeded to point out to what
in his judgment the great advance in the character
of the continental production was due. He says :

                                                         53
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

   There can be no doubt that the French, Belgian, and Prussian
manufacturers are greatly indebted for their progress in this and
many other industries to the very superior technical education
which their manufacturers and workmen obtain by means of the
schools instituted for special instruction, not only in design, but in
everything which has any relation to each particular manufacture.
Without education we cannot expect to have skilled workmen of
the highest class, and to a fair general education must be added a
special training under good masters in every branch of trade. The
adoption of similar schools in Britain will before long become a
necessity, and the sooner they are established the better.

    Prompt effect to these opinions was given by two
other members of the same family in a pamphlet,

published in Leeds, entitled : " A Technical Institution

for Leeds and District, proposed by George Henry
Nussey and Arthur Nussey. Leeds : Edward Baines
and Sons, 1867." This institution was avowedly
designed to serve the interests of the staple industries
of the West Riding. Its projectors formulated a
scheme of technical education which should in the
first place combine the existing School of Art with
a School of Weaving and Design, and should afford
instruction in mechanical engineering ; in the manu-
facture and dyeing of woollen and worsted goods ;
in weaving and designing ; in the manufacture of
linens, and of leather; in mining, metallurgy, and
building construction. Two years later they sought
to give a practical development of their ideas

by establishing "The Leeds Art and Science In-
stitute " in connection with the Science and Art

Department, South Kensington. Six teachers and

assistants were engaged and the classes were held

in the evenings.
    Other agencies, however, were at work tending

to the same end. There is a small social organization

                                                        54
              The Yorkshire College

in Leeds which has existed since 1849, known as
the Conversation Club, and which, with less am-

bitious aims, has played much the same part in the
intellectual life of the town that the famous Lunar
Society did in that of Birmingham. In this club the
idea of an Educational Council for Leeds took its
rise, and out of this grew the Yorkshire Board of
Education, of which Lord Frederick Cavendish, M.P.,
was President, and Sir Andrew Fairbairn, and Dr.

J. D. Heaton, an active member of the Conversation
Club and of the Educational Council, were Vice-

Presidents.
   The work of the Board up to the period of which

we write had been mainly concerned with the pro-
vision of science classes and science teachers, in

connection with mechanics' institutions working in

conjunction with the Science and Art Department.
    In 1869 a meeting of the General Council of the

Yorkshire Board of Education was held at the Town
Hall, Leeds, with Lord Frederick Cavendish in the
chair. It was attended by representatives of the
more important industries in Yorkshire, as well as

by persons interested in higher education. A reso-

lution was carried " That in the opinion of this
Council it is desirable that a College of Science
should be established in Yorkshire"; and a committee
was appointed "to investigate, consider, and propose
the best means of carrying out the proposal."
Members of this committee naturally visited, in the
first place, the neighbouring Owens College, and
gained valuable information concerning its rise and
progress and the nature of its operations, much of
which was embodied in their report; others visited

                                                               55
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

 King's College, London, in order to inspect its
 Department of Applied Science and Engineering
Workshops. Correspondence was also entered into
with the Endowed Schools Commissioners, who held
out prospects of assistance for Exhibitions in Physical
Science and in the Secondary Education of Girls.

    The Committee presented their report in 1872.
Their suggestions were limited by the probabilities
of realizing them. Too ambitious a scheme would
overreach itself: public support would probably be
deterred by the very magnitude of the effort needed
to give effect to it. On the other hand, no attempt
would be worth making unless it afforded reasonable
assurance of practical benefit. After full consideration
the Committee recommended the establishment of the

following professorships : (i) Mathematics and Engi-

neering; (2) Chemistry; (3) Mining, Metallurgy, and
Geology ; (4) Experimental Philosophy ; and they
came to the conclusion that the minimum sum
required for a beginning was ,60,000, which they
apportioned as follows: site and buildings, 25,000;
endowment, in addition to students' fees, "25,000 ;

establishment expenses, "10,000.

   The Council accepted the report, and at once
appealed for subscriptions. Sir Andrew Fairbairn
headed the list with "1,000, followed by like
amounts from the Duke of Devonshire, Sir Titus
Salt, Bart., Messrs. Beckett & Co., the Low-
moor Iron Company, and Messrs. Hargreave and
Nusseys, members of which firm had started " The
Leeds Art and Science Institute." The project,
however, made but slow progress : pecuniary support
was difficult to secure, and the Committee were

                                                        56
              The Yorkshire College

forced to realize that if a start was to be made

something less than the ^"60,000 would have to

suffice. It was therefore resolved to postpone all
building operations and, when a sum of ,20,000 had

been raised, to make a beginning in temporary

premises.

   In April 1874 it was reported that the subscription
list amounted to ,25,000, and on the 3Oth of that
month a meeting of the subscribers and donors was
held in Leeds for the purpose of defining the Consti-
tution of the proposed College and electing a Board
of Governors. Lord Frederick Cavendish presided,
and Dr. Heaton made a statement explaining the
progress of the movement, and the steps it was

proposed to take in order formally to constitute the
College. In addition to the amount subscribed, the
promoters were able to announce offers of help in
money, as well as in science exhibitions, from the
Endowed Schools Commissioners. The Clothworkers'
Company of London promised ^500 a year to found
a Chair of Textile Fabrics. But Dr. Heaton went on

to remark :

   The work is far from being completed ; it may be said to be only
commencing. The governing body have an arduous task before
them, both in organizing the College and in still prosecuting the
canvass for subscriptions. ,20,000 neither represents the amount
to be expected from the large and wealthy West Riding of York-
shire, nor does it approach to the amount necessary to give per-
manency and full efficiency to the institution which we desire to
establish. Although it is proposed to commence operations in a
rented building, both because our present means would not permit
of the purchase of a site and erection of buildings thereon, and
because of the long delay which would be occasioned by waiting for
the completion of a building yet to be erected, it is most desirable,
indeed essential, that the College should ultimately possess its own

                                                        57
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

 buildings, appropriately constructed and arranged for carrying on its
work with the greatest efficiency and convenience. We have often

been asked if Government should not assist the work we have in
hand. Continental Governments do provide for scientific teaching
as applied to industry, and it might be well if our own Government did
more to promote this great national work. In this country we have
always been left to do more for ourselves by individual action and

by voluntary benevolence ; and our national self-reliance and powers
of organization and practical benevolence are no doubt strengthened
and developed by our people being left to their own resources. But
inasmuch as all are interested directly or indirectly in the com-
mercial prosperity of the nation, this does seem to be an object
towards which (when it is once commenced by private exertions)
some assistance and encouragement by the Government would be

peculiarly appropriate.

    In the early autumn of 1874 the Council proceeded
to appoint the first professors of the College. The
committee which drew up the scheme of instruction
had recommended the inclusion of the subject of
Engineering, with which should be associated the
teaching of Mathematics by the same professor.
However desirable it might be to make provision
for instruction in the principles of Engineering
especially in Mechanical Engineering, in view of its
bearing upon one of the most important industries of
the town and district the Council, for various reasons,

were unable to give immediate effect to this particular
recommendation. The subject of Mechanical Engineer-
ing, to be properly taught, requires the provision of
workshops, laboratories, and an installation of costly

plant. Even if the limited resources of the College

had been sufficient at the time to make the most
modest of beginnings, the temporary premises which
had been leased would have been unsuitable for

the purpose. Accordingly the authorities, with that

                                                       58
              The Yorkshire College

characteristic Yorkshire caution which takes nothing

on trust, goes no further than it can plainly see nor,
in the common phrase, puts out its hand further than
it can draw it back again decided to limit their
appointments, to begin with, to Professorships of

(i) Experimental Physics (with which they associated

Mathematics) ; (2) Geology and Mining ; (3) Chem-
istry. To the first Chair they elected the late Mr.
A. W. Riicker, Fellow of Brasenose College, Oxford,

and a Demonstrator in the Clarendon Laboratory

afterwards Sir Arthur Riicker, Sec. R.S., Professor of
Physics in the Royal College of Science, London,
and subsequently Principal of the reorganized Uni-
versity of London. To the second they appointed the
late Mr. A. H. Green, formerly Fellow of Gonville

and Caius College, Cambridge, and a distinguished
member of the Geological Survey, who subsequently
became Professor of Geology in the University of

Oxford. For the third appointment the Council

selected the present writer, who had been a pupil,
assistant, and demonstrator under the subject of this
memoir at Owens College, and who, prior to his
selection, had held the Chair of Chemistry in Ander-

son's College, Glasgow, now merged into the splen-
didly endowed and equipped Royal Technical

College.
   The premises in which the College was first housed

consisted of a disused Bankruptcy Court situated in
Cookridge Street, one of the main thoroughfares
leading out of the town. After a somewhat chequered

career the building had been partially used as a school
of cookery, with the unfortunate result that it had

been largely consumed by a fire just prior to being

                                                        59
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

taken over by the College authorities. Although not
so spacious as Richard Cobden's old house in Quay
Street, Manchester, in which Owens College first
started, the Leeds building, in some respects, was not
ill-adapted to the purposes of the limited professoriate
with which the Yorkshire College of Science began

its operations. At all events, it accommodated without

the slightest difficulty all the students who sought
admission to its classes on its opening day.

   The College began its work of teaching on
October 26, 1874 somewhat later than the normal
time of opening a session owing to delays in com-
pleting the necessary structural rearrangements. But
as there was no yearning anxiety on the part of any-
body to learn, no special inconvenience or disappoint-
ment resulted. There was no preliminary flourish of

trumpets ; hardly so much as an opening speech.
The initial ceremony was as simple as the appoint-
ments of the College were modest. Each of the three
professors in turn gave an introductory lecture to an
audience consisting of the members of the Council and
such of the friends of the embryo institution as cared

to attend. Some encouraging remarks were made by
the Chairman, and so the College was launched. But
for a time the students were few and their advent as
far between as the visits of angels.

   Still, as the session progressed and the existence
of the place became gradually known the numbers
slowly crept up, and by the end of the summer term
they had reached twenty-four and the students' fees
had amounted to about ^150. The authorities now
determined to open the next session with an

Inauguration Ceremony. October 6, 1875, is a

                                                  60
             The Yorkshire College

red-letter day in the history of the College, for on
that date one of the most notable and helpful gather-
ings ever held in honour of the College took place.
The proceedings began at noon, when the College
buildings were inspected by a specially invited
company ; thereafter there was the inevitable public
luncheon and in the evening a general meeting in
the Town Hall. On each occasion the Duke of

Devonshire was in the chair. At the College meeting

Lord Frederick Cavendish, its President, gave a short
account of its origin and aims. They were there,
he said, to take care that they did not through
ignorance waste the natural wealth of the county,
or stay the further development of the natural
qualities of its people. Wealth, however, was not
much in itself but only as a means. Were they
quite certain that in the great wealthy industrial North

they had made the same progress in intellectual

culture and refinement as they had in wealth ? He
pointed to the example of Owens College : inspired
by that College, they would try in Yorkshire if they
could not do something of the same sort.

   At the luncheon similar sentiments were uttered

by the Dean of Durham, the Marquess of Ripon,
Canon Robinson, Sir Edward Baines, and Mr. W. E.
Forster. It was, however, at the evening meeting
that the real success of the day was achieved. The
Victoria Hall was filled with a typical Yorkshire
crowd alert, receptive, keenly interested, alternately

critical and tolerant, yet ready to be swayed by those
who knew how to reach their intelligence and rouse
their enthusiasm. The Duke of Devonshire opened

the proceedings with a dignified and impressive

                                                        61
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

address, worthy of his high position as Chancellor
of the University of Cambridge and as President
of the College in the neighbouring city of Man-
chester. He gave a broad and comprehensive
account of the general state of educational activity
in the country and indicated the directions in which
it was tending. He pointed to the creation of insti-
tutions for secondary and higher education in our
large centres of industry as a sign that the country
was awakening to the fact that all our great branches
of industry were founded on a scientific basis.

Although the education however indispensable it
might be of the eye and the hand could only be
acquired by actual practice, it could be nothing short
of prejudice to deny that the education of the intellect
was also a matter of primary importance. The Duke
affected no flights of eloquence. His diction was
simple and unaffected, and a vein of strong, practical
common sense ran through the whole of his remarks.
His presence was not unfamiliar to a Leeds audience,

but they never heard him to greater effect, or, it

may be added, at greater length. His speech was

said to be the longest he had ever made.
   The late Lord Playfair, who as Dr. Lyon

Playfair then represented a Leeds constituency,
followed on the same theme. He recalled the fact

that more than a generation had passed since stand-

ing on a Leeds platform he had acted as interpreter
to his friend Liebig in warning his audience not to

pride itself too much upon its industrial achievements,
explaining how impossible it was for England per-
manently to preserve her manufacturing supremacy

among nations, unless she bestowed more attention

                                                       62
             The Yorkshire College

upon the sciences which formed the groundwork of
her industries. Then, in one of those hortatory dis-
courses with which he occasionally astonished and
delighted an ill-informed House of Commons, he
poured forth a wealth of facts in illustration of the
movement in the industrial world which had
rendered these modern colleges an imperative

necessity.

Foreign nations had seen that their only chance of compensating

themselves for our advantages in the materials of power and strength

was to excel us in the intelligence and intellect applied to their use

in production. They saw clearly that as new forces and their

application were brought to aid industrial production, human labour

was relieved from much of its drudgery, and that the conceptions of

the brain became more important than the sweat of the brow.

Look to Switzerland, as an example in point. She has no coal,

and no seaboard by which she can introduce it. Separated from

other countries by ice-clad mountains, and hemmed in by hostile

tariffs, she still becomes an industrial nation. What has led to her

great industrial industry? Not her water-power, for that she is only

beginning to use effectively, but simply the educated intelligence

of her whole population. Valleys in which a few years ago you

only heard the tinkling of the bells of cattle as they strayed through

the pastures are now busy with turkey-red works and calico print

works. Our manufacturers shake their heads sagaciously, and say,

"This is because the air and water of Switzerland are so well

adapted for colours." But the true explanation is contained in the

answer of Opie,

Iambitious youth
the celebrated         painter, who being    asked  by an
how he mixed           his colours, replied           them
                                             " mix

with my brains, sir."

Every part of public education in Switzerland is well co-ordinated

and organized. At Zurich, in addition to a university for general

culture, there is a technical college larger than Buckingham Palace.

And so Switzerland laughs at countries which look to raw materials

as the source of their wealth, and imports cotton from the United

States, tobacco from Havana, silk from Italy, and sends back to

these very markets her finished products. Again, look at Holland,

which is a reclaimed swamp, containing no mineral materials for

                       63
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

industry, except in a small patch at Limburg. She also compensates

for their absence by increasing the intellectual factor in labour.

Every town of 10,000 inhabitants has its technical school, supported

by the municipalities. Look at Germany, which, though it does

possess valuable raw materials, cultivates with assiduity the intel-

lectual factor of production. In war and in peace her population

is able to be used to the greatest advantage. Europe has scarcely

yet recovered from its amazement at the sudden development of that

empire, though it had been laying the foundation for its prosperity

in the educational organization which she gave herself when the
wars of Napoleon taught her the sources of her weakness. Now,

surely we should not close our eyes, in insular pride, to the means

taken by other countries to increase their productive resources.

France fully admits that her recent calamities were largely due to a

want of enlightenment of her people. She is still far ahead of us in

technical institutions, but her general and university education are
Ifvery deficient.
                   you desire an example of a country which cannot

progress because of the ignorance of her people, look at Spain.

When the Duke St. Simon, once French Minister there, said,
" Science in Spain is a crime and ignorance a virtue," he explained

in one sentence the cause of her misfortunes. A fertile country,

washed by two great oceans, abounding in coal, iron, copper, and

quicksilver, is unable to thrive because her people are ignorant.

   The speaker then turned to the case of the institu-
tion whose formal inauguration had been the occasion
of his address, and he proceeded, as a practical educa-
tionist, to give it and its projectors some advice.

   Such colleges are likely to receive little support until the middle-
class schools understand their duty to Society by making Science

part of the effective instruction of youth. A port constructed for

the reception of ships, before the ships themselves are built, has a
dreary time to wait for their arrival, and so the managers of the new
College must not be discouraged because it does not grow quickly.

   Nor did he think it would be wise, at least in its
infancy, to give to the College too much of a technical

character.

                                                  64
               The Yorkshire College

Teach science well to the scholars, and they will make the

applications for themselves. Good food becomes assimilated to its

several purposes by digestion. Epictetus used to say that though

you feed sheep on grass, it is not grass, but wool which grows upon

their backs. What the College should aim at is to increase the

science and intelligence of the community, and not to teach indus-

tries which they know a great deal better than the professors. The

new College is only the local expression of a general movement

for higher education. That movement has no doubt received its

primary impulse from the conviction that our industrial population

ought to be educated in the principles which underlie their occupa-

tions. But the object is higher than this. There is a desire to

spread culture throughout the country, and not to concentrate it in

one or two favoured localities. The older Universities are beginning

to recognize this fact. Cambridge had made the bold experiment
of trying whether, if the youth of the provinces would not go to her,

they would receive educational missionaries sent to them. The

older Universities could do much from their wealth and educational

resources. They could easily spread enlightenment over England if

they were earnest in the work.

No doubt our manufacturing and commercial classes require to

be mellowed by culture, but our Universities must adapt that culture

to the wants and spare time of busy communities. They cannot get

hold of our great industrial centres in any permanent way unless

they raise them in self-respect and dignity by giving them an intel-

lectual understanding of their vocations, and upon that understand-

ing they may engraft as much polite literature as they can. A

college of science, such as we are inaugurating to-day, is admirable

in itself, but it is not complete. Perhaps it even focuses the light

too strongly on a particular spot, and for this reason it intensifies

the darkness around. Its directors are too enlightened men not to

see this, and I am sure they will aid in the co-ordination of your

other educational resources. The ultimate effect of this may be that

you may evolve a wider and more comprehensive college for higher
Ieducation.
               look to that time with hope, for differentiation of our

colleges will be the best thing for learning and for vigour of intellect.

Each great provincial town should have a college as a centre of

intelligence, each a sun capable of warming and illuminating a

region around  not merely moon to cast pale and cold beams as
               it,
                   a

                                        a

                                                                                   F
a reflection from distant luminary.

Subsequent speakers, in so far as they went over

                                65
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

the same ground, merely ploughed with Dr. Playfair's
heifer. The Marquess of Ripon was not discouraged
by the small beginnings of the undertaking. All the
experiences of the past showed that those institutions
which had taken the deepest root, and which had
flourished the longest and wielded ultimately the most

extensive influence, had sprung from small beginnings.
Our ancient universities had mainly sprung from
individual effort, and from private endowment. We

were not less wealthy than our ancestors who founded

them. Surely we could do now what they did before

us. He trusted that there was not to be any doubt
as to the future of this institution. We were told that

its managers had acted to a great extent upon faith ;
that they had been doing their work partly out of
capital in the confidence that that capital would be
repaid them by the good sense and generosity of

their countrymen.

   Of all those who followed, and who pleaded the
cause of the College, none was received with greater
heartiness and enthusiasm than Mr. W. E. Forster,

and there was none whose speech had a deeper or
more genuine note of sympathy and encouragement.
There were perhaps special reasons for the warmth
of the welcome with which he was greeted. The
political circumstances of the time were peculiar, and
Mr. Forster was known to be the undeserved victim
of them. The Liberal party was then in opposition,
and Mr. Gladstone earlier in the year had suddenly
thrown up his position as its leader. Public opinion
had designated Mr. Forster as one of the two or three
politicians of eminence who might fitly be regarded
as his successor. But a considerable section of the

                                                   66
             The Yorkshire College

Nonconformist Radicals never forgave Mr. Forster for
his action or what they supposed to be his sole
action respecting the religious question in the
Education Act of 1870. Led by the Birmingham
League, they were determined to make his selection
as the party leader impossible. The League party in
his own constituency of Bradford passed a resolution

hostile to his claims. Eventually, rather that divide
the Liberal party, Mr. Forster withdrew from the
contest, and Lord Hartington, whom all sections were
willing to follow, was chosen. These circumstances
were well known to everybody in that large audience,
and most moderate-minded men in it had the fullest
sympathy with what Mr. Gladstone called " the
thoroughly genuine and independent character "
whose natural ambition as a statesman had been so

rudely checked by the sectarian rancour of political
allies. This was his reward for the wise and states-
manlike measure of 1870 one of the finest achieve-
ments to the credit of the Liberal party.

   As he stepped to the front of the platform to
make his contribution to the cause of the College
he was received with round after round of applause,

and for some minutes he was unable to proceed.
Men instinctively recognized that the effort for
which he pleaded was but another link in the educa-
tional chain which he had done so much to forge
the Endowed Schools Act of 1869 and the great

Education Act of 1870. His was but a short speech,

but each strong, vigorous utterance went home.
The College was to be as its name implied a county
institution not merely of the town in which it

happened to be situated. They might as well at

                                                        67
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

once acknowledge that the call which had been made

by civilization upon civilized people had not been

so much responded to by England as it had been

in some other countries. But they had awoke to the

fact that a call was made upon them. They had a

habit of being late, but not too late.

   This demonstration had an immediate effect upon
the fortunes of the College. One practical result

was a considerable increase in financial support.

Some of those who had already given, gave largely

again ; and many additional subscribers came forward.
The existence of the College was made known

throughout the length and breadth of the county.

The Inaugural Ceremony met with a splendid

"press." One     "  of the most   gratifying   features was
the " uplifting      tone of the  speeches :  speaker after

speaker pointed out what should be the true character

of the institution : it was not to be a mere Trade

School not simply a Technical College but a centre

of liberal culture and of higher education, containing
within it the potentiality of a University discipline.

   To those who had ears to hear, and an imagination

to conceive, the future of the College was plainly

indicated within the first twelve months of its
existence. It was this aspect of its destiny that

appealed so strongly to that eminent journalist and
man of letters, the late Sir Wemyss Reid, at that

time editing the Leeds Mercury, and to which he

gave emphatic expression in those forcible leaders

so characteristic of his pen. So long as he remained
in Leeds, Reid proved a staunch friend of the

College and was ever ready to do what he could
for its welfare. Nor was the educational press in

                    68
The Yorkshire College

general at all backward in extending a welcome to
the infant institution : certain members of the teach-

ing staff did yeoman service in enlisting its interest

and sympathy.
   The result of this organized effort, in which all

concerned members of the Council, officers, teachers

worked with enthusiasm and unanimity, was seen

in the record of the subsequent session's work.

From this time onward the successive Annual

Reports of the College constitute an unbroken story

of continued development. It was not, of course,

surprisingly rapid, but it was steady and continuous.

The progress of the institution was general ; it was

to be measured by the gradual increase in the number

of its teachers, in the character and range of their

subjects, and in the sessional entry of the students.

It perhaps, significant of the change that a
is,
                                                            a
quarter of a century had made in the attitude of

the middle class towards educational matters that

the growth of the Yorkshire College, during its early

years, should have been relatively far greater than

that of Owens College at the corresponding period

of its existence. But there may have been other

factors to account for, or at least to increase, the

difference. The generally acknowledged success to

which the Manchester foundation had attained at

the time of the establishment of the Leeds College

may have been, and probably was, by the force of

example and desire of emulation,                               potent contribu-

tory cause.
   The courses of study at Owens College, so far as

circumstances and its means would permit, were
avowedly based, at the outset, on the examples of

69
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

the older Universities. The little regard that was
then paid to Science by the Trustees was indicated by

the small stipend that was attached to the science

chairs as compared with those on humanity subjects.
There was no general recognition, even in the home
of Dalton, of the beneficent part that science was
able to play in the industrial life of the district. On

the other hand, the Yorkshire College started wholly
untrammelled by the traditions of ancient seats of

learning, and its counsels were only remotely influenced

by those who had been nursed in them. As its

original designation implied, its projectors clearly

recognized the value of science in relation to industry.

They founded the College, indeed, in the strength of

their conviction. They began, in fact, at a point to

which Owens College had arrived when Roscoe made

his influence felt upon its policy.

   It cannot be said, however, that the educational

aims of the governing body of the Leeds institution

to begin with were very sharply defined ; nor was
the action of the Council always consistent. This

was, perhaps, inevitable in a body which contained

no professed educationists.  Most of its members

had everything to learn of the technique of education,

and, as is not unknown in the history of similar

institutions, it was some time before the Council

could be induced to adopt formal means of availing

themselves of the knowledge and experience of the

academic element they sought to direct. At the

outset there was no clear apprehension by them of

the lines upon which the College should develop.

There were two distinct parties in the Council,

and their views occasionally conflicted. The College

70
             The Yorkshire College

had been ostensibly founded to serve the industrial
interests of the district, and the support of many

of its wealthy manufacturers had been enlisted solely

on that ground. This fact led a certain section of

the Council to attempt to impress upon the College
the character of an institute of technology. Whilst

they were willing enough to extend its science side
so long as it bore directly upon industrial needs,
they had but little sympathy with the litera
humaniores, and all attempts to include such subjects
were viewed with disfavour as a departure from
the original intentions of the projectors. But the
majority of the Council soon came to have a higher
conception of the true functions of the young insti-
tution, and it was only the limitations of their means

    their poverty and not their will that prevented

them from attempting to realize their ideals. To

this section the example of Owens College was,
without doubt, a constant stimulus. It served even-

tually to direct the College upon the lines upon
which it ultimately developed. But for a time this
diversity of aim on the part of the government of

the College made itself manifest with each attempt

to enlarge its curriculum.
    Fortunately the professoriate was of one mind on

this question, and their unanimity was not without
influence on the policy of the College. They recog-
nized, of course, that there is no necessary antago-

 nism between the two aims. Both should be

developed pari passu : that is a condition demanded
by modern necessities. It is the essential and char-

 acteristic feature of the higher education of the
 present time. The difficulty was to give practical
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

effect to these views under the restrictions imposed
by the financial circumstances of the College. But
the fact that the Staff held them and not only gave

expression to them, but sought to realize them so
far as lay in their limited power secured for the
Professors the appreciation and confidence of the
governing body, and ultimately obtained for them a
responsible share in its counsels.

   In the first few years of its existence several

circumstances conspired to enhance the public repu-
tation of the College and to consolidate its position.

In its second session the teaching staff received a

great accession to its strength by the appointment
of Mr. Louis C. Miall as Lecturer in, and afterwards
as Professor of Biology. Mr. Miall had already
established a reputation as a man of science, as an
able and attractive lecturer and a sound and ex-

perienced teacher. He brought to the aid of his
colleagues a wise judgment and a knowledge of local
conditions which under the special circumstances
proved most helpful. His appointment at this period
was not without its significance as an indication of
the broad and liberal views which the majority of

the Council entertained as to the scope and functions

of the College. It was a wise policy to attach to

its fortunes all who could in any way serve its true
interests, whether in teaching, in enlisting public
sympathy, or in the management of its affairs.

   At the beginning of the following session (1876)

the professors, who had now formed themselves into
an Academic Board holding regular meetings in
order to discuss the educational affairs of the College,
addressed a memorandum to the Council inviting

                                                       72
              The Yorkshire College

them to consider the advisability of extending the
curriculum so as to include Literature and Classics.

They pointed out that they had frequent applications
from students for advice as to obtaining the degrees
of the University of London, or as to complying with
the requirements for open science scholarships at
the other Universities, but that, as at present
constituted, the College was unable to afford
the necessary facilities. They were of opinion
that if the College were in a position to enable
the students to obtain the science degrees of the
University of London its usefulness would be con-
siderably increased, and the wider curriculum might
be expected to result in an augmentation of the
yearly entry. The Council, on the whole, were not
indisposed to consider the suggestion benevolently,
but they regretted they were unable to take any
action from lack of funds. The matter, however, was

not allowed to drop. At that time Mr. Stuart and

his syndicate at Cambridge were busy in their
attempts to spread culture among the hives of
industry, and their missionaries were at work in
Leeds under the auspices of a committee of which
the late Bishop of Truro (Dr. Gott), then Vicar of
Leeds, and the late Sir Edward Baines, one of the

truest and most zealous friends the College ever
possessed, were active members. These gentlemen
approached the governing body with a view of
ascertaining whether some arrangement might not
be possible whereby the work initiated by the
University Extension Movement could be conducted
by the College in a more systematic and permanent
manner than hitherto, and they undertook on behalf

                                                       73
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

of the Committee to be responsible, for a term of
years, for a considerable proportion of the money that
would be required to give effect to the suggestion.
The result of the negotiation was the establishment
of Chairs of Classical Literature and History, and
Modern Literature and History, which were filled,
respectively, by the appointment of Professor John
Marshall, M.A., of Balliol College, Oxford, afterwards
Rector of the High School, Edinburgh, a distin-
guished classic, and author of an English rendering
of the "Odes and Epodes of Horace," "Xenophon
Memorabilia/' and other works ; and Professor F. S.
Pulling, B.A. (Oxon). This enlargement of the
educational work of the College necessitated a slight
but significant change in its designation : hence-
forward it became known simply as the Yorkshire
College until it was raised to the rank of a uni-
versity, when it took the name of the town in which

it was situated.

    The executive of the College now publicly ex-
pressed their conviction that there is no good reason
against grouping in one institution the studies be-

longing to liberal culture, and systematic instruction
in scientific and artistic principles and methods as

applied to staple industries.

    An event of hardly less importance in public
estimation at this period was the purchase of a con-
siderable fraction of the site upon which the hand-
some and extensive buildings of the University now
 stand. The decision to take this step was one of the
 most momentous departures in the history of the

 institution, and the writer well remembers how

 seriously and with what anxiety it was discussed by

                                                   74
             The Yorkshire College

the small body which assembled in the office of the
legal adviser to the College to confer with the Chair-
man of its Finance Committee on the subject. Mr.
Francis Lupton, who at that period held the office,
was an ideal custodian of its financial affairs. No man

could be more prudent in their management : at the
same time no one realized more fully that an ill-
judged parsimony might be the worst form of economy,
and that a timely expenditure might be the wisest in-
vestment. The two members of the Staff who were
present at this interview, with the courage of faith
and the enthusiasm of conviction, used their best

endeavours to incline him to sanction what every-
body who had knowledge of the financial condition of
the institution could not but regard as a most onerous

obligation. But in the end there was practical

unanimity among those present as to the expediency
and opportuneness of the step, and the event proved

its wisdom.

    The foundation-stone of the new College buildings
was laid on October 23, 1877, by the Archbishop of
York. As architect the Council had secured the
services of the late Mr. Alfred Waterhouse, R.A.,
whose experience and success in the erection of
 Owens College seemed to them the highest possible
qualification. By the generosity of the Clothworkers'
 Company, who had voted the sum of ; 10,000 for
 the purpose, the authorities were enabled to take in
 hand without further delay the buildings designed
 for the Textile Industries Department.

    The publicity given to these proceedings greatly
 strengthened the position of the College in the county,
 and especially in the West Riding. These events

                                                         75
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

were no doubt such as must have come naturally
and in the fullness of time, but their advent at this

particular juncture was possibly accelerated by the
action of Owens College in seeking for university
powers. This movement on the part of Manchester
had already engaged the attention of the Council
of the Yorkshire College and was watched by them
with no little apprehension. They realized that it
was certain to have an important bearing upon
the question of higher education in Yorkshire, both
directly and indirectly, and that the future of the
Yorkshire College was intimately bound up with it.

It was therefore all the more necessary to prove to
the world that Yorkshire men, in their own interests,

were very much in earnest about their young insti-
tution ; that they were determined to secure for it
the fullest possible freedom of development and to

extend and consolidate its position, unhampered by
limitations to which it might conceivably be subjected
by the presence of a relatively rich and powerful

university close to its own area.
   In the next chapter we purpose to indicate briefly

the steps which led immediately to the foundation
of the new university in Manchester and to show
how the action of the Yorkshire College resulted in
modifying its j Constitution as originally contemplated.
                     CHAPTER V

                         THE VICTORIA UNIVERSITY

AT the time of this movement in favour of the
creation of a university in Manchester the writer of
this memoir was, as already stated, a member of the
teaching staff of the Yorkshire College, and was

then, as for some years previously, in constant

friendly communication with Roscoe. A letter in-

forming him of the feeling in Leeds and the district
concerning the action of Owens College, and the
desire of the authorities of the Yorkshire College
that its interests should in some way be safeguarded,
brought the following reply under date January 31,

1877:

  Thanks for the leader, which I had seen. What does Leeds want ?

A peripatetic university ? First in Manchester, then in Leeds, then

in Bristol, next in Newcastle ? Or will it be content with an affilia-
tion scheme? Do you want to come in now, incomplete as you
are, or will you be content to wait till you are developed into more
of a two- or three-sided sort of thing ? How can the unity of an
institution be kept up if all kinds and conditions of other institutions

claim an equal voice in all the arrangements ? In short, would it

not be much better for Leeds, and Bristol and Newcastle, to have
separate universities as well as Manchester, than to make a union
in which there would not be strength? However, our proposed
scheme will provide for the admission and representation of other
places if they like to come in, but a university, like most other things,
must not only have a name, but also a local habitation, and hence

                                                        77
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

I do not see how the idea of a wandering minstrel kind of university
... Icould possibly answer, and this is what, take
                                                    the writer of the
                     ?)

                                  it

                                    I
                                                                    it,
                                                                                   a
article (who was he means.              will send you copy of our

proposals as soon as they are settled.

   After the special meeting of the governors of the
Owens College, at which was decided to take steps
to obtain a university charter, Roscoe wrote to the
present writer as follows under date March 27,

1877:

You may unofficially and on your own responsibility state to the

Secretary of your College that you have reason to know that in the

proposals to obtain Charter to grant Degrees the authorities of
                     a
                                a
this College have added clause to enable other colleges, under

certain conditions, to enter into union with the proposed Uni-

versity.

We were unable to accede to the request to forward the documents

officially, as the Committee on the subject had not met. But you

may say (privately) that  it       the wish of those who are interested in
                             is

the movement to make this admission of other colleges an essential

part of the scheme.

This to show your Council that their claims will be properly and

fairly considered.

The following letter, dated December                5,                                1877, was

received after the Manchester deputation to the

Duke of Richmond and Gordon, when the Lord

President of the Council suggested some alteration

in the government of the proposed university, which

the memorialists considered and adopted.

At a meeting yesterday of the University Sub-Committee a more

detailed scheme for the proposed Constitution was considered.                         I

think you may like to know unofficially  aa  few of the particulars,

bearing in mind that  it           simply as yet proposal.
                          is

   (i) The Charter to be granted to the Court of Governors ofa

Owens College modified so as to give somewhat larger repre-
sentation of the Academical Element.

                                   78
                      The Victoria University

   (2) The representation on the Court, when sitting for Uni-
versity purposes, of any other qualified College in union with

the University to be as follows : the President, the Treasurer or

Chairman of the Council ; the Principal of such College ; such

proportionate numbers of (a) the Senate, and        the Governing
                                                    (b)
Body of such College as may be determined by the University a

Court with the sanction of the Lord President of the Council.

   (3) The Executive Body of the University to consist of
members nominated by the Court and also, on the union of

any other qualified College, the President, Treasurer, or

Chairman, Principal and the members of the Senate of such

Colleges nominated on the Court.

   (4) The Court to be summoned for University purposes as
distinguished from Owens College purposes by the Executive

Body of the University.

Another point of importance to you this That power shall be
                                  is
given to the Court of the University, after considering the report of
                                      :
                                                 :
the Executive Body upon the subject, to accept the application

of any other College for incorporation with the University, provided

always that the Court should be satisfied (i) that such College has
established           reasonably complete curriculum and possesses a
             a
reasonably sufficient teaching staff in the Departments of Arts and
                     ;
                           \
Science at least (2) that such College has furnished proofs of its
means and appliances for teaching being established on footing of

permanent security (3) that such College under the independent
control of its own Governing Body and (4) that the admission shall
receive the sanction of the Lord President of the Council.
                              ;

                                             is

   Again, power to be given to any such College to appeal for final
decision to the Lord President.

   One other point. On incorporation the professors of such College
shall take proportionate share in all the examinations of the
I
                   a
University as decided by the University Court.

hope that these proposals will be found to meet your views.

a  Meanwhile the Council of the Yorkshire College,
acting in conjunction with its Academic Board, had

been carefully considering the situation. Influenced

to large extent, no doubt, by the local Press, public
feeling in the district set strongly in the direction of
immediate action. Although the infant institution

                              79
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

was barely three years old, there could no longer be
any doubt that it was already firmly implanted in the
estimation and regard of the community in which it
was placed. Indeed, nothing in its short career up
to that time stimulated and strengthened this regard
more than this particular crisis in its fortunes. The
call for sympathy and support which now was spread
throughout the Ridings was the finest reclame it could

possibly have. It served to deprive the College of
the last semblance of being a merely local founda-

tion ; henceforth it was in fact as in name a county

organization.
   In the following May a deputation arranged by the

Yorkshire College waited upon the Lord President of
the Council. The report of the Council of the

College pointed out that whilst the Owens College
scheme admitted of the admission of other colleges

to the university, the provisions that the charter

should be granted to the Owens College, and that the
university should be named after the City of Man-
chester were very generally considered incompatible
with the future incorporation of institutions in other
towns. Lord Ripon, in introducing the deputation,
gave forcible expression to these views. The
memorial was supported by representatives of the
municipalities of the large towns in the West
Riding and elsewhere in the county, by a number
of scientific organizations, and by many eminent
educational authorities.

   As the Owens College memorialists had already

expressed their willingness to consider favourably the
inclusion of other colleges, under reasonable condi-

tions, there was little difficulty in opening friendly

                                                         80
The Victoria University

negotiations between the two Colleges with the desire

on both sides to arrive at a satisfactory arrangement.
The Duke of Devonshire, who was a liberal supporter
of both Colleges, and had shown great interest in their
welfare Lord Frederick Cavendish being President
of the Yorkshire College convened a conference at
Devonshire House between representatives of the

two Colleges, when after full discussion the basis of a
federal scheme was devised. The details of this were

worked out by committees of the two Colleges.

Eventually complete agreement was arrived at, and

it was decided to present a joint memorial from the
two Colleges praying that Her Majesty might be

advised :

   (1) To create a new university, in which the Owens

College, Manchester, and such other institutions as

may now or hereafter be able to fulfil the conditions
of incorporation laid down in the Charter, may be

incorporated colleges.

   (2) To grant to each of such incorporated colleges
a share in the government of the university, depending

only upon its magnitude and efficiency, in accordance

with the suggested Constitution.                  said
                                                  this
   (3) To be graciously pleased to allow the
university to be called the Victoria University.

   In the various conferences needed to reach

solution the late Sir Arthur Riicker, who acted as
one of the representatives of the Yorkshire College,
took an active and leading share, and it was in no

small degree due to his tact, urbanity, and diplomatic

skill that it was secured.

   In reference to this matter the present Master of
Peterhouse, Sir A. W. Ward, who was at the time

                            81 G
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

Principal of the Owens College, bears the following
testimony :

   " I remember very well how admirably he con-
ducted the case of the Yorkshire College, which was
at first adverse to our wishes at Manchester, and

afterwards was conjoined with our own application.
He had great difficulties to contend against ; for the
Yorkshire College seemed to be opposing our appli-
cation for a university charter without being able to
set up a similar claim for itself, and the federal

principle to which resort was ultimately had was
by no means free from objections. He had, if I

remember right, very effective parliamentary support,

especially in the late Mr. W. E. Forster, and then,
or afterwards, in the late Lord Ripon. But he was
the active representative of Leeds, and the virtual
success of the action of the College was very largely

due to him.

   "Personally he was a man of great charm of manner

and a very pleasant as well as effective speaker."
   The deputation presenting the joint memorials waited

upon the Lord President, who was accompanied by
the Marquis of Salisbury, on May 5, 1879. It was
headed by the Duke of Devonshire, as president of
the Owens College, and the Archbishop of York, as
representing the Yorkshire College, and consisted of
noblemen and gentlemen of influence connected with
the two counties ; representatives of different denom-
inations, municipalities, scientific and educational
bodies, as well as other gentlemen interested in
higher education. It received the customary promise
"that the proposal should have the most attentive
consideration of Her Majesty's Government."

                                                       82
                The Victoria University

   The various steps in the procedure needed to obtain
a royal charter are many and devious. They need

only be indicated by stating that they seem expressly

designed to afford abundant occupation for lawyers.
The following letter from Roscoe, sent to the writer

from the Athenaeum Club, and dated June 19, 1879,
bears upon this point :

"   It is most  important   t"hadt raywonu  should  at once get a Petition to
                in Council                  up and  sent to the Parliamentary
   The Queen
Agents for presentation. We are doing so. The Duke of

Devonshire will sign our petition, and yours in identical terms

should be signed by the Archbishop [of York] and Lord Frederick

Cavendish.

   The Council meets on the 26th June, and everything must be
sent in before that date.

  I have seen Mr. [W. E.] Forster who has telegraphed to your

secretary this evening.

   We have the draft of our petition at O[wens] College if you wish
to consult it.

   It is most important to get this done and to get your Archbishop

to sign.

   The next letter, so far as regards the Victoria
University, requires some explanation. The then
Chairman of the Council of the Yorkshire College,
the late Dr. Heaton, was not wholly friendly to the
idea of a new northern university, and ultimately he

dissociated himself from his colleagues on this par-

ticular question. He was never able to persuade

himself that another university was actually needed
or was desirable. In his judgment the interests of
higher education, so far at least as the creation of

degree-granting bodies could serve them, were suffi-
ciently assured in England by the existence of the

universities of Oxford, Cambridge, and London. He

                                                       83
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

viewed with considerable apprehension the attempt to
establish rival universities : he imagined that the
stress of competition for students might lower the
standard of scholarship. Above all he was strongly
opposed, in what he thought the true interests of
the medical profession, to the increase in the
number of possible avenues to practice : in his

opinion there were already too many for an efficient

standard of qualification to be maintained. It was
perhaps characteristic of him to suppose that the
immediate, and indeed the ultimate, effect of the

establishment of the university in Manchester would
be not to hearten and rouse his colleagues to fresh

exertions in order to make the Leeds College worthy
to be received as a member of the University : on the
contrary, he thought that, by force of circumstances,
the enthusiasm of the friends of that institution would

be gradually damped, and their energy proportionally
weakened, as the neighbouring College grew in power
and prestige after being raised to the dignity of a

university. He was specially concerned about the
future of the Leeds Medical School, of which he had
been a member for many years. It was well estab-

lished and had an excellent record, but its position

would, he considered, be undermined and its con-
tinued existence jeopardized by the proximity of a

school attached to a degree-giving body. He was
not able to carry his colleagues on the Council of the
Yorkshire College with him in his view of the prob-
able influence of the new University on its fortunes.
As the sequel proved, he entirely misconceived its
effect : so far from weakening the energies of its

friends, events showed that it acted as the most power-

                                                   84
               The Victoria University

ful stimulus the Leeds College ever received. But

Dr. Heaton's authority and influence with respect to
the Medical School enabled him to carry his point
in regard to the proposed medical degrees, and the
Yorkshire representatives were instructed to disavow

any wish that power should be sought to grant them.

A suggestion to send a private message to the

Lord President to this effect was made after it had

been represented by the legal agents that no obser-
vations on the draft chapter could be received by
the Privy Council. Under the circumstances the
authorities of Owens College were not without

justification for their disappointment and annoyance.

IIn the first place would propose to you that we should together
Ido the atomic weight of Titanium. You and both thought of
... Idoing it. You are busy with other things.
                                                will sketch a

Ifmethod out, prepare some more TiCl 4 and send the proposals to
you.  you like, that is. So much for private affairs.

Now with regard to the Victoria University. We all have been

much annoyed and surprised to find that you at Leeds, having so

far acquiesced in our proposals see memorial, etc. now at the last

moment put in a caveat about Medical Degrees ! This appears to us
Ifrather too bad.
                      this move was intended we ought to have had
previous information of it. If you have only now determined on

this course it is more obviously unfair to us to start the hare now !
Fancy what the University will be without such power. Think
of Glasgow and Edinburgh thus emasculated. Is this what you

wish us to come to ?
IThen
       think that R.'s proposal to send a private message

through your President to the Duke of Richmond still more objec-
tionable. " Openly we agree, but we come to inform you privately
that you will please us by striking out the provision." This is

really what you propose to do ! This, coupled with the petition

from Liverpool and the opposition and jealousy of other Medical

Schools, may suffice to so mutilate our Charter that it won't be

worth having.

Do see what can be done to dissuade your people from sending

any such message to the Duke.

                               85
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

   The private message above referred to was not

sent. At the same time Dr. Heaton's views, backed

up as they were by the action of the College of
Surgeons and British Medical Association, and a
great number of the leading hospital surgeons and
teachers in London and elsewhere, prevailed, and the
application for power to grant degrees in medicine
and surgery was, for the time at least, withdrawn,
in the expectation that legislative action on the
general question of medical education and qualifica-
tion was contemplated. As no such action was taken,
a supplementary charter removing the restriction was
granted on April 20, 1883.

   The next letter, under date February 14, 1880,
shows a further stage in the progress of the appli-
cation. By a then recent Act it had to be laid before
both Houses of Parliament for thirty days before any
report on the subject could be submitted to the

Sovereign.

   By the way, you know, of course, that the Charter (unaltered) is
now lying on the table of both Houses, and if we can only keep
everybody quiet it will be law in less than thirty days !

   When are you coming over ?

   The Charter was granted by the Queen in Council
on April 6th, and was finally ratified on April 20,

1880.

   The next letter (March 30, 1880) shows that this
event was to be celebrated, as a matter of course, in
the customary British method.

  I am very sorry that you cannot dine with the  P.C.S.  I[President
                                                 i6th.      intended
of the Chemical Society Roscoe himself] on the           asking the
you to have been there as Longstaff medallist !   I am

officers and some of the Council.

                                   86
             The Victoria University

   You must all reserve yourselves for July i4th or i5th. The
opening of the V.U. [Victoria University] and a Banquet at the
Town Hall ! !

   The following letter (January 16, 1881) shows how
cordial the relations between the sister Colleges had
now become, thanks to the frank and friendly dis-
cussion between their representatives, and how loyally
those in authority at Owens were prepared to carry

out the compact :

Accept my sincere though tardy thanks for your beautiful photo-

graph, which is a marvellous study of volcanic action.
  I have lately
                 heard that P       has been making     a statement (on
whose authority                     that the Yorkshire    College would
not be allowed    I cannot think)
                                      Though I know     that you would
                  to join the V.U.
Itake this for what it is worth, think that others may misunder-
Istand, and think that you should inform any one who reports such
a statement that it is wholly without foundation. In the first place,
the V.U. cannot refuse even if they desired to do so. In the
second, I for one, and many with me if not #//, will cordially

welcome any addition to ourselves, for those who have to work the

new University desire to have other competent persons to help to

share their great responsibility.

   Roscoe, in fact, from the very beginning of its
career had always shown a sympathetic interest in
the fortunes of the Yorkshire College. Badly housed
and poorly endowed at its start, its early struggles
and difficulties were watched by him with a kindly

regard, based, no doubt, to some extent on the

memory of his own experiences. He was not un-

frequently in Leeds in those days, and his breezy
optimism and cheerful confidence that things would
come right, in spite of checks and disappointments,
were at once stimulating and encouraging to the small
band of young professors who were striving to mould

                                                       87
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

the institution according to the pattern of that which
he had himself done so much to fashion. An indica-
tion of that interest was manifested by his presence, in
December 1880, at the formal opening of the new
buildings which the College owes to the wise liberality

of the Clothworkers' Company. At the banquet which

followed he responded to the toast of " The Victoria
University," and expressed, on behalf of the authori-
ties of Owens College, the hope that before long the
Yorkshire College would become one of the incor-

porated Colleges, and would help the Owens College
to uphold the dignity and usefulness of the new

University.
    Roscoe took a leading part in shaping the cur-

riculum of the new University, and at the meeting of
the Court which settled its general lines he might
be said to have been the mouthpiece of the party
which succeeded in impressing upon it its characteristic
features. What had to be considered were the needs
of great industrial communities. What sort of know-
ledge do they desire, and what should they be
encouraged to pursue ? The discussion mainly turned
upon the place which the classical languages should
hold in the university courses. " Compulsory " Greek

was no longer regarded as a practical question.
Should " compulsory*' Latin also be eliminated ? Are
these ancient languages, or either of them, still to
be regarded as an indispensable part of a liberal
education and an indispensable requisite for a degree ?
The claims of the Classics were not without de-
fenders, but as a local newspaper pointed out in a
leading article, curiously enough it would seem that
among the stoutest of these were to be found some

                                                        88
The Victoria University

of the very men who might have been supposed to

be the natural champions of the newer learning,

and if orthodox academic traditions received a rude

blow, it was because they were deserted by the

very men who had been nursed in them. With two
exceptions, the professorial members of the Court
were unanimous in recommending that Latin should
not be made obligatory for a degree. The Chan-
cellor and Lord Derby supported the contention that

whatever may be the value as mental food and

training of the Classics when thoroughly mastered,
the wretched minimum of ill-learnt Latin and soon-

forgotten Greek prescribed in university examina-

tions as preliminary to more serious studies possesses

no educational value whatever. Perhaps the argu-

ment most decisive with the Court was that given

by Roscoe. He said they had to consider the

large number of persons who came to the Owens

College for special instruction, and more particularly

for engineering and mathematics, but who had never

been at any school where Latin was taught. Those

were the men who carried off the best engineering

prizes, and for them it was that this door had wisely

been kept open. They must not be guided by what

Oxford or Cambridge had done, but by what was

good for their own district and what was advisable

at the present moment. Let them remember what

a number of men such as he had mentioned there were

in their neighbourhood, and how flourishing were the

mathematical schools, and then let them say whether

they could cut off those schools and men from
                       The " innovators " won the
university education.
day by a majority of 2 to i, and thus effected " the

                       89
     The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

dethronement, never to rise again, of this mischievous

idol."

   It was amusing to notice the perturbation which

this departure from a time-honoured tradition caused
in certain scholastic circles and among the self-styled
" friends of culture." But on the whole the action

was favourably commented upon by the more influen-

tial newspapers and leading educational journals. It

was regarded as the inevitable consequence of
modern necessity, and of the gradual recognition that

the traditions of mediaeval schoolmen were not

     sacrosanct or necessarily the best adapted to new

     requirements.                   it,

it is   In drafting the Constitution of the new University
     power was of course taken in accordance with

     established procedure, and in deference to the demo-
     cratic tendencies of British seats of learning, to form

     the body known as Convocation, and those of the
     former students of Owens College who came within

     certain definitions were made its first members.

        It would seem to be the inevitable tendency of
     all Convocations to play the part of a Parliamentary

     Opposition. Their primary duty, as they conceive
         to criticize and to take an independent view of

     the policy of the university, as determined by the
     governing or executive powers. No doubt such

     criticism salutary wisely directed, but experience
                is     it
                           is
                   It
                             if
     has shown that         sometimes factious and occasion-

     ally obstructive. Much, therefore, depends upon the

     chairman.         was felt by many of the members that

       was specially important at the outset to make a

     prudent selection  if  Convocation was to secure from

     the beginning its proper influence and dignity as a

                                 90
             The Victoria University

deliberative assembly. The Extreme Left there is
always such a group in such a gathering had
promptly proposed Dr. Richard Marsden Pankhurst,
a student of the College in the Quay Street days,
and now mainly remembered as the husband and
father of certain ladies who have distinguished
themselves in the cause of Woman Suffrage. Dr.
Pankhurst was never regarded quite seriously in
College circles least of all by his former associates,
who on a dull evening at the Union would occa-
sionally put him up to make a political harangue in
the style of the Convention, when he would declaim

the most blood-curdling sentiments in a highly pitched
falsetto, with all the fiery eloquence and fervid
passion of a Danton or a Hebert. But however

powerful the appeals to a youthful enthusiasm, the
stones of Quay Street remained unmoved, nor was
Deansgate at any time blocked with barricades.

   Later on Dr. Pankhurst went to the Bar, when he

followed in the footsteps and sought to better the
example of a once well-known Chartist orator

whose name is well-nigh forgotten, became an
active local politician, and made one or two futile

attempts to gain a parliamentary seat as the most

extreme of advanced Radicals. It was possible, of

course, that when weighted with the responsibilities
of office Dr. Pankhurst's conduct of the chair might
have been irreproachable. But the majority of
Convocation were not disposed to take the risk.
Accordingly an " influentially signed " memorial was
issued suggesting Roscoe as first chairman. The
advantage of securing at this early period a chair-
man well acquainted with the work of the other
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

co-ordinate bodies of the University was obvious.
But there was another reason, as the terms of the
memorial indicated. The general body of the mem-
bers were anxious to testify their appreciation of the
services of the man who had been so largely instru-
mental in making a Convocation at all possible.

    By knowledge and experience no man was more qualified to
promote administrative accord than Dr. Roscoe. From him came
the first proposal of the new University ; and no one worked with
greater zeal and devotion in the movement, which after a long
struggle was so happily successful. No sacrifice of time and labour
was too great for him, and his forethought and knowledge of
business were of untold advantage during the negotiations.

   The suggestion that he should be the first chair-
man was made without Roscoe's knowledge, but it
was so well received that he consented to be
nominated and was elected by a large majority.
The Intransigeants, of course, affirmed that they
were fighting solely for a principle, and "as a
protest that those who teach and train ought not
to govern and examine and fill all the positions in

the University." They next proceeded to move "a

kind of vote of censure on the Executive Council
for anticipating the jurisdiction of Convocation in
arranging for degrees, examinations, and so forth."
This was met by "the previous question" and lost,
whereupon the meeting proceeded to discuss the
absorbingly interesting subject of academic costume,
and the dissident minority melted away.

   At this first meeting the clerk informed Convoca-

tion that at the next ordinary meeting of the Court
the Council proposed to report as to the University
making use of its power to grant degrees to persons

                                                       92
             The Victoria University

being at the date of the University Charter associates
of the Owens College. The first graduation cere-
mony of the University took place in the autumn
of 1882, when Professor Ward in presenting the
Associates said :

   The Associates of the Owens College, whom it is my privilege to
present to you to-day, are spontaneously linking their names and
reputations with the name and fame of our University, and it seems
a twice -blessed relationship which on both sides is founded on

goodwill. IMany of those whom am about to lead to you are

men distinguished in letters and science, and in the several learned
professions and other occupations to which their lives are devoted.
Some are members of the governing and teaching bodies of our own

University. A great number hold the degrees of other Universities

    of those older Universities from which our own has received so
many signs of kindly and ready sympathy, or of that great examin-
ing University without which much of the educational progress of
the last half-century without which such progress as was made
within the walls of Owens College, would itself have lacked its
trust worthiest tests.

   The following letters from Roscoe to the writer
have reference to this function, which took place
in the Manchester Town Hall with, as the descrip-
tive reporter stated, "all the ceremony and pageantry
that help to cast a glamour over the older seats of
learning."

                                                                         MANCHESTER,
                                                                                             October 14, 1882.

   I write a line to say how much we all hope that you will run

over on November ist to have the degree of the V.U. conferred upon

Iyou. It is of importance that our best Associates should show up

on the occasion, and am particularly anxious that you should not
be wanting. The ceremony is to be held in the Town Hall, and
we hope that Lord Derby and Mr. Mundella will be present.

    How are you getting on ? We are full in our laboratories and
hard at it.

                                                        93
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

    Unfortunately, the recipient of these letters (and
of the degree) was unable to be present. He had
just succeeded by effluxion of time to a position
formerly held by Roscoe himself in " that great
examining University 1' which had in the past so
efficiently tested the educational progress of Owens
College, and his official duties kept him in London.

                                                                                 October 22, 1882.

  I think in spite of Mrs. A. B. B.Sc. it would be as well if you
would come to have the V.U. degree granted. If you do not come,

unpleasant remarks may be made as to the cause of your absence.

  I never supposed you did care for the degree as a degree : it is

simply an enrolment of yourself as a bona-fide member of the
University. . . . My feeling is that all those who have an interest in

the University and who have taken active steps in its foundation

should not hold aloof on this occasion, but show that they are

willing and anxious to support the new University to the best of

their power.

   You took an active part in modifying the original lines on which

we had decided to lay our University, and I think that therefore

you are, perhaps, more bound than other people to help now to

make it a success on its present footing. . . .
I am very glad you are coming to open our Chemical Society's
I ISession here on Friday.
                        fear may be away as my Commission

[Technical Instruction  CIofmImcisasniogne]t  meets   on Wednesday  for
some consecutive days.                                will.
                                              back I

   The time, perhaps, has not yet arrived to attempt
to assess the effect on the higher education of the

country which has followed from the establishment
of these modern universities, but that it has already
been very great there can be no question. Since
they are free, for the most part, from the influence of
the schoolmen, and are unhampered by mediaeval
traditions and the prepossessions of the past, they
are the more readily able to shape their course in

                                                  94
            The Victoria University

accordance with the demands of industrial progress

and the necessities of modern life. From the circum-

stance that they are nearly all situated in large towns

and in the midst of industrial communities, the study

of science
a             as a rule, a prominent feature in their
                is,

                    is
                          is

                                                                                       is
scheme of instruction, and accordingly their science

faculties are usually strongly developed. A spirit of

emulation makes them all active centres of research,

especially in physical science and in its technical

applications, and their aggregate output of original

scientific inquiry  now very considerable, and in

extent and quality compares most favourably with

that of continental nations. Their influence upon the

conduct of those industries which ultimately depend

upon science        already very marked, and as the

number of scientifically trained men becomes larger,

as the result of their instruction, that influence

bound to become still greater. With the diffusion
of knowledge of scientific principles new appli-

cations of science to practice will follow, and these

in their turn will react upon the instruction in the
schools of science. The ultimate effect of all this

will be a still clearer recognition by the community

that the permanence and eventual success of our

manufacturing industries depends upon the intelligent

application of science.

We are thus able to perceive how Roscoe's

action in helping on the development of Owens

College on modern lines and in raising eventually
                                       It it

                                                           is
to the status of a university has reacted, and

bound still further to react, upon the intellectual

and material welfare of this country.  was the

great success of the Manchester College as a centre

                         95
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

for the diffusion of knowledge in its own district
that incited other towns to seek to emulate its
example, and when Owens College sought for the
position as a university to which she was entitled,
the same spirit of emulation quickened the efforts of
her friendly rivals to make themselves not less worthy
of such a dignity.

   Of course it is not claimed for Roscoe that he

actually initiated this remarkable movement a move-
ment which must be regarded as one of the most
significant features of our times ; he shares the credit
with others. But he certainly was one of the main-

springs of it. It may be said the time was ripe

for the step. Nevertheless, it is due to him to
affirm that he was one of the earliest to perceive
that fact, and to take occasion boldly by the hand.

If he cannot justly be said to have actually started

the action, he was at least one of its most power-
ful prime movers.

                                                   96
                       CHAPTER VI

                             ROSCOE AS A TEACHER

SOME years before Owens College attained to the
position of a university, several attempts were made
to induce Roscoe to sever his connection with it. In
1870 he was offered the lectureship on Chemistry
at St. Bartholomew's Hospital in succession to
Dr. Matthiessen.

   The following letter under date October 14, 1870,
refers to this circumstance :

     I have just refused to go to London again ! They wanted me at

St. Bartholomew's.

     Miller is to be succeeded by              , and it appears that this

gentleman has made a compromise with the New School, and is to

adopt 0=12! Is not this rich ? Originality at King's was always

a"t   a discount, but   then Orthodoxy reigns   supreme,  and  this  is  the
     Wahre Jakob,"     as they say in German
                                               !
     ILockyer is down here visiting Stewart, and had a physical and

astronomical party here last night (my wife being away), at which

a large number of interesting new observations on the heavenly

bodies and on science in general were made, which did not conclude

until the small hours.

  I cannot buckle to the new book Ibut have arranged the

order of things to my tolerable satisfaction. Whether it will ever

see the daylight remains a mystery. . . .

   Two years later     he was invited to become a
                       vacant chair of Chemistry at
candidate for the
                               97 H
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

Oxford, with the promise of a fellowship if elected.
That he might be Brodie's successor was, he says, a
tempting suggestion, but on consideration he felt he
had a wider scope, and the possibility of greater
usefulness in building up the chemical school of
Owens College a decision which he had the satisfac-
tion of knowing met with the warm approval of
Huxley and other friends.

   Roscoe's method of working his department was
wholly modelled on that of Bunsen, as those of his
pupils who subsequently repaired to Heidelberg

could testify. A bove majori discit arare minor. He

gave his lectures at the beginning of the working
day, after which, and whilst the laboratory men were
settling to work, he would retire to his sitting-room
to glance at his correspondence. He would then
go round to each in turn, see what had been done
since the previous visit, and give such directions and
advice as were necessary. Although the students

worked independently, and were at different stages
of progress, he knew precisely how each was
occupied. With the men engaged on research work,
or with preparations, or on any matter out of the
usual routine, he would frequently spend a con-
siderable amount of time. He always seemed to be
as much interested in the work as the workers them-

selves, and was unaffectedly pleased with a good
analytical result, a well-constructed apparatus, or a

neat preparation. His boyish love of manipulation,

simply as such, remained with him to the end, and he
somehow managed to convey something of his own
feeling of delight in handling apparatus to those
he taught. In this lay the secret of his power and

                                                  98
                Roscoe as a Teacher

success as the director of a laboratory. Although
his students never forgot that he was the professor
he was always "Doctor" Roscoe to them they

realized that he was quite on an approachable plane,
and a bond of sympathy and of mutual understanding
was quickly established which strengthened into

friendship and esteem.

   As a teacher, tolerant of the imperfection of human

nature in youth, he might pardon stupidity or condone
carelessness, but he had no patience with anything
that savoured of pretension or deceit. Nothing
angered him more than to find that an analytical
result had been "trimmed" or "cooked." He once

summarily expelled a young man from his laboratory
who, under pretence of making a re-determination of
an atomic weight, was caught hatching out a series
of wholly fictitious numbers. And he was amazed
at the mentality of a minister of religion who failed
to perceive the heinousness of such a crime, the fact

being the good easy man thought the procedure was
on a par with any other mathematical exercise, and
therefore liable to error. That young man, it may
be added, in after years came to a violent end, for

he was lynched for horse-stealing ; the descent to
Avernus, as Roscoe would point out, is easy and
inevitable to one of the moral obliquity that can
juggle with the sanctity of experimental figures.

   The ingenuous youth of Owens in the writer's

time were not a particularly lamb-like lot, and occa-
sional dmeutes were not unknown, but disturbances
in Roscoe's class-room were absolutely unheard of.
Indeed, such was his personal ascendancy that at times
his assistance was invoked to quell an uproar in a

                                                   99
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

neighbouring territory. As he stepped into the room

and began, " Now, boys, etc.," he would be received
with a round of cheers, and order would once more

reign in Warsaw. A word of expostulation from

him would suffice to ensure it.

   Of course, as the number of his pupils increased,

and the laboratories became larger and more

numerous, it became impossible to give so great
a share of individual attention, and much had to

be delegated to demonstrators, for the most part
chosen from among senior students who were
preparing for an academic career, and who had

themselves been trained by him. At the same
time he was quite alive to the value of " new blood,"

and any promising young man who had shown
aptitude for teaching or ability in research was
sympathetically considered on the occasion of a

vacancy.

   He next visited his private laboratory to consult

with his assistants, and to learn how their work was
progressing. As his engagements multiplied, and the
calls upon his time increased, he gradually ceased to
take any active part in the operations when assured of
the competence of those to whom he had entrusted
the execution of his plan of research. Indeed, he

allowed his chosen helpers considerable latitude,

as usually happened, they were genuinely interested
in their work. He had strong belief in the wisdom

of giving the 'prentice hand "his head," as the surest
way of strengthening any latent faculty for original
inquiry he might possess. He had himself been trained

in this way, and he employed the same methods in

 turn.

                                                        100
a
                                                      if,
                Roscoe as a Teacher

     Roscoe, like Bunsen, set no very great value on
 lecture-room teaching, although he recognized that
 with the majority of students no other system is

practicable. It no doubt serves to afford an aper$u
of the subject, which is what the average attendant
at lectures presumably wants. At the same time he

spared no pains to make his lectures interesting, and
they were always admirably illustrated by experi-
ments. Luckily he had in his famulus Heywood,
a remarkably able lecture-assistant, a skilful glass-
blower, and a good mechanician, with a talent for

devising striking and original illustrations. Roscoe
had a good voice, clear enunciation, and a pleasant,
easy mode of delivery, but he had none of the arts of
the orator nothing of the fiery, impulsive manner
of his contemporary, Hofmann, or the command of

polished speech that characterized Kekule". In the

lecture-room his language was simple and direct ;
he was an excellent expositor, always lucid, occa-
sionally humorous, and never dull.

    Although organic chemistry at his most active
period as an investigator was experiencing an extra-
ordinary development, and offering limitless oppor-
tunities of discovery, its problems then, and, it may
be added, at no subsequent time, had more than an
academic interest for him. The only communication
dealing with organic chemistry with which his name
is associated is a short note on the Spontaneous
Polymerisation of Volatile Hydrocarbons contributed
to the Chemical Society in I885. 1

   1 " Note on the Spontaneous Polymerisation of Volatile Hydro-
carbons at the Ordinary Atmospheric Temperature." By H. E.

Roscoe. Chem. Soc. Trans. XLVII. (1885), pp. 669-671.

                                                       101
  n. ^. .i-o^L}^.

The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

   The paper had its origin in a chance observation
brought to his notice by a tar-distiller, who had
noticed the formation, on standing, of a white
crystalline mass among the volatile hydrocarbons
resulting from the decomposition of phenolic sub-
stances at a red heat. The crystalline substance
was found to have a molecular formula C H10 12, but
its real nature and the mode of its genesis were

not established.

   Organic chemistry was hardly taught at Heidel-
berg in Roscoe's time, and then only by subordinate

professors and privat-docenten, mainly to pharmacists.
The effect of this training was seen in the subsequent
character of his teaching. The lectures on organic

chemistry that he was necessarily required to give
at Owens College, with their limited possibilities of
experimental illustration, simply bored him. Happily
he found in Schorlemmer a colleague who was glad
to relieve him of the duty. Schorlemmer was not a
fluent speaker, and although he wrote our language
with ease and accuracy, he never acquired familiarity
with the mysteries of its pronunciation. But he was
an excellent teacher, remarkably well-read, and had
an astonishingly retentive memory, and his lectures

were thoroughly appreciated by the discerning student.
    Roscoe continued to direct the Chemical Depart-

ment of Owens College until his election as Member
of Parliament for the Southern Division of Man-
chester in the autumn of 1885, when he resigned the
Professorship of Chemistry. On his retirement the
Council recorded its strong sense of the eminent

services he had rendered to the College through a
period of thirty years, and its conviction that to his

                                                        102
                Roscoe as a Teacher

great attainments as a man of science, his skill and
success as a teacher and organizer, his widespread
reputation, and his high personal qualities, it was in
great measure due both that the College enjoyed so
high a rank as a place of education, and that its
Chemistry Department in particular had long held a
position second to that of no other academic institu-
tion in the United Kingdom.

    Similar testimony was borne by his colleagues
when placing his portrait by Burgess in their Common
Room, and by his pupils when offering another
portrait by Herkomer to Lady Roscoe. The address
accompanying this latter gift, and signed by upwards
of two hundred old pupils, was as follows :

   To Sir Henry Enfield Roscoe, M.P., D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S., etc.,

Emeritus Professor of Chemistry in the Owens College, Manchester,
February 16, 1889.

   We, the undersigned students of the Owens College, who have
had the privilege of being your pupils, desire at the close of your
active work as a teacher to offer you some recognition of the value
of the services you have rendered to your College during the time
you have laboured as one of its professors. For upwards of thirty
years you have had the control and direction of the chemical
department of the Owens College. You leave it the best organized
and best equipped school of chemistry in the kingdom, numbering
its students by hundreds, and the acknowledged model of the many
similar institutions which the success of your own school has called
into existence. No place of chemical instruction in the country has
exercised so profound an influence as that of which you have been
the moving and directing force, and with which your name will
always be connected. Its influence on the industrial welfare of the
community is seen from the number of responsible positions held
by your students in the district. Its influence on educational pro-
gress may be judged from the number of your pupils who hold
important positions as teachers of chemistry. As a centre of
chemical research you have made the Owens College known all

                                                       103
  The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

  over the world, and your books on chemical science form the
  standard works, not only in this country, but in many others. The
  genial and sympathetic interest which you always showed in the lives
  and work of your students is gratefully remembered by all of us,
  and it has bound us to you by a personal tie such as rarely unites a
  teacher and his students. Whilst we have viewed with regret the
 severance of your active connection with the institution for which
 you have done so much, both in moulding its academical organiza-
 tion and in consolidating its work, we trust you may long be spared
 to continue in the wider sphere of political and public life those
 efforts which have already contributed so largely to the intellectual
 advancement of the people of this country. We beg your acceptance
 of the portrait which accompanies this address as a token of our
 affectionate respect, and in grateful recollection of many kindly acts
 which have endeared you to us all.

    In a short account which Roscoe compiled for

private circulation, he recorded, with pardonable
pride, the rise and progress of the Chemical
Department of the Owens College during the
thirty years he directed it ; and he indicated the
leading principles which had guided him in its
development. He recalled the position of the College
in 1857, when the workers in the chemical laboratory

were fifteen in number. It was only very slowly

realized that Science could be made an efficient instru-
ment of education, and that such an education was
not only compatible with, but was absolutely necessary
for, a successful manufacturing and industrial career.
The fact that the stipend of the Professor of
Chemistry was fixed at one-half of that given to the
other chairs showed how the Governing Body at that
time regarded the relative importance of that subject,
as compared with classics and mathematics.

   From the outset he was firmly convinced that the
great blot in English industrial life was a singular

                                                       104
              Roscoe as a Teacher

want of appreciation of one of the essential conditions
of success, namely, a sound training in the scientific
principles which underlie all practice. The fact that
the intimate connection which ought to exist between

science and practice was more clearly recognized by
our continental rivals, was bound in the long run to
tell against our own manufacturing industries. He
then shows how he had sought to establish a sound
and thorough course of systematic theoretical and

practical instruction in chemistry to meet the gradual

recognition of this fact which he was certain would
arise under the stress of necessity. But, as he
points out, the success of any such scheme must

ultimately depend upon its director.

The personal and individual attention of the professor is the true

secret of success ; it is absolutely essential that he should know, and

...take an interest in, the work of every man in his laboratory, whether
beginning or finishing his course.  It is in the laboratory, and

there alone, that chemistry can be properly learnt, and it is by the

peripatetic teaching of the professor and his demonstrators that the

student benefits most. Laboratory teaching must inculcate method

and accuracy ; the student must be made to understand what he is

doing and why he does and must gradually acquire the power ofis it,

exact observation and of logical inference. All these faculties are

exercised and developed by a properly organized and thorough

course of qualitative chemical analysis, and no elementary course of

practical scientific work more useful, either in training the hand

or the head.

This, however, presupposes that an explanation of the theory

accompanies the practice of qualitative analysis, and that the

student attends course of instruction in which the reactions and
a
         a
methods of separation are systematically explained and discussed,

as well as general course on theoretical chemistry.

Having thus obtained  a  knowledge of the principles of the

science, facility in manipulation, and reliance on his own powers of

observation, the student should begin quantitative analytical work,

in which he learns by degrees what scientific accuracy means, and

                         105
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

how exact results are to be obtained by careful work. Constant
personal supervision of the student is absolutely requisite, as every-
thing depends on the care with which the various operations are
carried on, working from recipes without superintendence being
really valueless. One main object of this course is so to teach the
pupil as to give him reliance on his own power of exact work ; to
inculcate habits of neatness and order; to make him aware of
sources of error, and to teach him either to estimate their amount,

or how, if possible, to obviate them.

   On this firm foundation of a competent theoretical
knowledge of inorganic and organic chemistry, and of
a thorough practical acquaintance with analysis, can
alone the proper and higher education of the chemist,
whether for purely scientific or for technical purposes,
be based. It was upon this view Roscoe consistently
acted. He steadily set his face against any practising
of rough-and-ready works-methods until the student
had learnt to appreciate the exacter processes. It is
only when he has gained the capacity for judging as
to the particular applicability of a method that he
should be permitted to compromise between efficiency
and speed. When confidence is based upon know-
ledge and practice, the special circumstances of his
position and his sense of responsibility, when engaged
in technical work, will enable him to determine rightly

when such compromise is justifiable.
   As regards instruction in applied chemistry, Roscoe

always held that the application can only be properly
learnt in the factory or works, just as a trade cannot
be taught in a school unless, indeed, the school
becomes a shop. But there is no reason why the
scientific principles and details of the various indus-
trial processes should not be brought to the knowledge
of the pupil who is intended afterwards to conduct

                                                        106
Roscoe as a Teacher

such processes. Provided a sound scientific basis is
secured, such instruction, given by a teacher who has
had practical as well as theoretical experience, is of

great value to the technical student.
   Thanks mainly to Roscoe's example, these prin-

ciples are nowadays among the commonplaces of
chemical instruction, and are adopted substantially by
all teachers of experience. That they commended

themselves to lay minds capable of appreciating and
judging them, and that the practical results of work-
ing the Owens College Chemical Department by
means of them proved satisfactory, was proved by the
steady increase in the number of Roscoe's pupils,
session after session, and by the variety of responsible
and important positions many of these pupils sub-
sequently filled. Another significant feature was the
increasing public recognition of the meaning and value

of a sound chemical education as shown by the grow-
ing willingness of parents and of young men them-
selves to devote such an amount of time to their

studies as would enable them to obtain real benefit.

He found in the earlier years of his experience that
the prevailing notion of the majority of manufacturers
(though there were notable exceptions) was that if the
son stayed at College for six months he could be "put
up " to all the necessary information to enable him to

apply chemistry to his business.

The fathers (he said) frequently used to come with a story of this
"I Ikind :
am a calico-printer, or a dyer, or a brewer, and want

you to teach my son chemistry so far, and only so far, as it is at

once applicable to my trade," and when informed that chemistry

as a science must be taught before its applications could be under-

stood, and that his son could not for two or three years at least

begin to work upon the subjects directly bearing on his trade, he

107
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

too often replied that if that were the system he could not afford
time for his son to learn on this plan, and that if he could not be

taught at once to test his drugs he should prefer to leave him in the

works, where he and his father before him had made a great many

commercial successes with no scientific knowledge, and where he

saw no reason to doubt that his son would do the same. The

change that has come over our manufacturers during the last five

Iand twenty years [this was written in 1887] has been remarkable,

and now all are, believe, fully awake to the necessities of their

position, and are most desirous of improving the scientific know-

ledge not only of themselves and their sons, but of their managers,

foremen, and workpeople. That this is so may be proved by the

fact that whereas formerly it was difficult to keep our students for

more than one session, we now find our senior laboratory well

stocked with men in their third, fourth,  a"ncdheemveisntsfi"fthinyethaers,hiwghoerks-t
ing at advanced subjects and becoming

and best sense of the word.

    When he laid down his office he could point to the

fact that his laboratories, spacious as they were

thought to have been when first erected, had been
more than full during the previous half-dozen

years. It was calculated that upwards of two thou-
sand men had passed through his courses. Among

them were many teachers, technologists, and profes-
sional chemists occupying responsible and important
positions. In the list of the Dal ton Chemical Scholars,
and of the Berkeley Fellows, were to be found names
known in the literature of science for their scientific

investigations. Indeed, no similar place in the king-
dom could show such a record of contributions to
chemical knowledge. Under Roscoe's government
the Owens College Chemical Laboratory furnished,
from first to last, two hundred and thirty-five original

communications, mainly to the Journal of the Chemi-
cal Society, or the Proceedings and Transactions of

the Royal Society.

                                                       108
                Roscoe as a Teacher

    The laboratories which Roscoe designed, and
which are known under his name, have long since
proved inadequate to accommodate the numbers
which now flock to the Manchester School of
Chemistry. After Schorlemmer's death it was found
necessary to add to their number, and the new
Schorlemmer laboratories, of eighty-nine working
benches, were built for the special study of organic
chemistry. These were in their turn overcrowded,
when Mr. Andrew Carnegie, the well-known Ameri-
can multi-millionaire, who never forgets he was born
on British soil, presented the University with ; 10,000
to erect buildings, on condition that they should
be called the John Morley Laboratories, in honour
of his friend Viscount Morley of Blackburn, the
eminent historian and statesman, and now Chancellor
of the Victoria University.

   On October 4, 1909, Roscoe was requested to open

formally the new laboratories, when he remarked: " It

was very gratifying to know that Mr. Carnegie, who
has spent millions of money on founding public
libraries all over the English-speaking countries,
seemed to be turning his attention to the founda-
tion of laboratories which, in my opinion, was of

still greater consequence." A characteristic remark

which those who knew the speaker would be quite
prepared to hear.

                                                       109
                    CHAPTER VII

                      ROSCOE AS AN INVESTIGATOR

THE character of Roscoe's scientific work may also
be said to have been entirely moulded by his Heidel-
berg training, and Bunsen's influence may be traced
through it to the last. So completely was this the
case that consciously or unconsciously he seemed
never to contemplate attacking any problem that
would not have appealed to, or have been appre-
ciated by, Bunsen.

   His first research was undoubtedly suggested by
Bunsen. As already stated, it resulted in the

classical investigation on the laws regulating photo-

chemical action. It was already known that a
mixture of equal volumes of hydrogen and chlorine

on exposure to light lost its characteristic colour,
and was converted into hydrochloric acid, readily
soluble in water ; and Bunsen conceived the idea
of making this reaction the basis of a method of
measuring the relative amount and activity of those
light-vibrations which are mainly concerned in effect-

ing chemical change. As a matter of fact the idea

was not new, for, unknown to Bunsen, it had already
been adopted by Draper, of New York, who had, as
he states in his paper in the Philosophical Magazine
for December 1843 :

                                                       1 10
             Roscoe as an Investigator

invented an instrument [based upon the same reaction] for measur
ing the chemical force of the tithonic rays, which are found at
a maximum in the indigo space, and which from that point
gradually fade away to each end of the spectrum.

   It perhaps says little for the assiduity with which

young Roscoe read the original chemical literature
of his time that he should only have knowledge of

Draper's remarkable papers some thirteen years after

they were published in the English journals. But
it is only due to him to say the chemical students
of University College in those far-off days had fewer
opportunities of access to original literature than
they now enjoy.

    Be this as it may, Roscoe's discomfiture at being
thus anticipated was of no long duration.

...Do not (wrote Bunsen) let your discovery of Draper's work dis-
concert you.      It appears to me that the value of an investigation

is not to be measured by whether something is described in it for

the first time, but rather by what means and methods a fact is

proved beyond doubt or cavil, and in this respect I think that

Draper has left plenty for us to do.

After many fruitless attempts they succeeded in

constructing an apparatus in which the defects of
Draper's " tithonometer " were obviated, and by which

not only accurate comparative determinations could be

made, but which enabled them to reduce the chemical

action of light to absolute measure. They showed by

means of it that the amount of chemical action pro-

duced by light from a constant source varied inversely

as the square of the distance. They studied more

accurately the phenomena of photochemical induction,

discovered    by  Draper,  the causes  which  determine  its

                             in
  The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

 occurrence, and the laws which regulate the chemical
 action of light after the induction is completed. They
 proved that the absorption of the chemical rays in
 passing through a medium varies directly as the in-
 tensity of the light, and that the amount transmitted
varies proportionately with the density of the absorb-

ing medium. It was found that for a given amount of

chemical action effected in the mixture of chlorine and
hydrogen an equivalent quantity of light is absorbed,
and that the coefficients of extinction of pure chlorine
for chemical rays from various sources of light are
very different. They established a general and abso-
lute standard of comparison for the chemical action of

light, and sought to determine the quantitative rela-
tions of the chemical action effected by direct and

diffused sunlight, and to investigate the laws which
regulate the distribution on the earth's surface of
the chemical activity emanating from the sun.
They also measured the chemical action of the
constituent parts of the solar spectrum. The action
on the sensitive gas showed the existence of several
maxima of chemical intensity in the spectrum.
The greatest action was observed between the lines

G in the indigo and H in the violet, whilst another

maximum was found to be near the line I in the ultra
violet. Towards the least refrangible end of the

spectrum the action became imperceptible about

the line D in the orange, but at the other end of

the spectrum the action was found to extend as far as

Stokes's line U, or to a distance from the line H
greater than the total length of the ordinary visible

spectrum.

   By investigating the conditions under which it was

                                                        112
             Roscoe as an Investigator

possible to prepare a photographic paper of uniform
and constant sensitiveness, and ascertaining the means
by which the darkening of the paper on insolation could
be accurately compared with a standard tint, it was
found comparatively easy to construct an instrument
capable of measuring the chemical action of light
effected at any point on the earth's surface by the total
sunlight and diffuse daylight under the most widely
varying circumstances of climate and atmospheric
condition.

   This joint research, begun in 1855, occupied its
authors until 1862. Roscoe did the greater part of
the experimental work, and after his election to the
professorship in Owens College in 1857 he spent his
long vacations in Heidelberg in continuing the inquiry.
The results were communicated in a series of memoirs
to the Royal Society and are published in the Philo-
sophical Transactions. 1

    Subsequently he pursued the subject alone or in

conjunction with others. In a short paper published

1 "Photochemical Researches." By R. W. Bunsen and H. E.

Roscoe :

Part I. Measurement of the chemical action of light. (Phil.
Trans.
   Part  I(I1.857P),hepnpo.m3e5n5a~3o8fo.p) hotochemical  induction.  (Phil. Trans.

III.(1857), pp. 381-402.)
Part       Optical and chemical extinction of the chemical rays.

(Phil. Trans. (1857), pp. 601-620.)

  Part IV. Comparative and absolute measurement of the chemical

rays. Chemical action of diffuse daylight. Chemical action of

direct sunlight. Photochemical action of the sun compared with
that of a terrestrial source of light. Chemical action of the con-

stituent parts of solar light. (Phil. Trans. (1859), pp. 879-926.)
   Part V. On the direct measurement of the chemical action of

sunlight.  (Phil. Trans. (1863), pp. 139-160.)

                                                113                   I
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

in 1863 he gave the results of a series of measure-
ments of the chemical brightness of various portions

of the solar disc made by means of standard photo-

graphic paper according to the method described by
Bunsen and himself in their last communication ; l

and in 1864 he described a method of meteorological
registration of the chemical action of total daylight

based on a modification of that originally used by

Bunsen and himself. The account of this method

was made the Bakerian Lecture in 1865, an d is
published in the Philosophical Transactions of that

year. 2

   In this paper he gives the results of consecutive

observations on each day for nearly a month at about
midsummer, and compares the chemical action of light

at Manchester at the winter and summer solstices, and

the vernal and autumnal equinoxes. The wide varia-

tion in the chemical action of light at different periods

of the year was illustrated by the fact that if the

integral of that on the shortest day be taken as the

unit, that upon the equinox will be represented by

7, and that upon the longest day by 25.
   In 1866 he and Mr. Baxendell contributed a joint

note to the Royal Society on the relative chemical

intensities of direct sunlight and diffuse daylight at

different altitudes of the sun. They showed from

observations made at Manchester and at Heidelberg

that the ratio of the chemical intensity of direct to

   1 " On the Measurement of the Chemical Brightness of Various

Portions of the Sun's Disk." By H. E. Roscoe. Roy. Soc. Proc. XII.

(1862), pp.  648-650.   Meteorological  Registration of the Chemical
   2 " On a  Method of
Action of Total Daylight." By H. E. Roscoe. Phil. Trans. CLV.

(1865), pp. 605-632.

                        114
              Roscoe as an Investigator

 diffuse sunlight for a given altitude at different locali-
 ties is not constant, but varies with the transparency
 of the atmosphere, and that this ratio does not in the
 least correspond with the value of visible intensity as
 estimated by the eye, the action of the atmosphere
 being 17-4 times greater upon the chemical than on
 the luminous rays when the sun's altitude is about

 25 and 26*4 times greater when it is i2. 1

    With a view to the introduction of the instrument
 into meteorology, and as part of the routine work of an
 observatory, he caused a regular series of measure-
 ments to be made during two years at the Kew
 Observatory, under the direction of Dr. Balfour
 Stewart ; and in order to gain further knowledge
 of the variation in the chemical action of light in
 different areas of the earth's surface, he sent the
 writer in 1866 to Para, on the river Amazon, i 28'
south of the Equator. The selection of this particular
place arose from the circumstance that his cousin,
now the Right Hon. Charles Booth, was pro-
ceeding to the Brazils in connection with the estab-
lishment of a new line of steamers, and it was

arranged that the writer should accompany him, in
order that he might make photometric observations
en route, going and returning, and at the same time
make a series of determinations of the amount of

carbon dioxide in sea air, night and day, with a view
of testing the truth of an allegation by a French
chemist, that it was subject to a diurnal variation,
depending upon the intensity of sunlight.

    1 " Note on the Relative Chemical Intensities of Direct Sunlight
and Diffuse Daylight at Different Altitudes of the Sun." By H. E.

Roscoe and J, Baxendell. Roy. Soc. Proc. XV. (1867), pp. 20-24.
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

   The special form of apparatus arranged for making
photometric observations at sea proved to be ill-
adapted to the purpose. But even if its perform-
ance had been good, the conditions under which it
had to be employed were incapable of furnishing
valid results. Accordingly the writer elected to
remain at Para in order to obtain the required

observations at that place, until such time as he
could return by the succeeding steamer. He was
thus enabled to make a much more extensive set of

observations than was originally contemplated, and
under conditions which ensured trustworthy measure-

ments.

   The following letter, dated May 12, 1866, and
received at Para, refers to these matters. The

allusion to Agassiz arose from the circumstance
that the great naturalist was at the time engaged in
work on the Amazons and its tributaries under the
auspices of the Emperor Dom Pedro.

    Roscoe himself was busily engaged with his
vanadium researches.

  IAlthough was disappointed to find that the Augustine returned
Iwithout you, yet think that you acted quite rightly in staying until

Ithe Jerome returns, as you could not get any results whilst on board.

  only hope that your health will have been good, and that you will

have enjoyed your stay at Para, and that when you return in August

we may have to work out plenty of interesting results.
I send per \hejerome a second bottle of silver solution, and some
Imore salted paper, as you may possibly be out of both.
                                                         also

enclose two or three fixed strips, but not calibrated. These, in case

you are out, may be used, carefully preserved and calibrated, on your

return. They must be carefully marked before using and notice

taken in the book of the marks on each strip when employed.

Your carbonic acid observations are very interesting : you seem
                                                   116
            Roscoe as an Investigator

Ito have settled Lewy completely, and hope you will get some

more experiments made on your return voyage.

   Could you not manage to make several series of daily observa-
tions (photochemical) on your return voyage ? It would not much
matter if the surface was not perfectly horizontal always, and you

could use your pendulum concern to steady the exposed paper to a

certain extent. Perhaps your ship does not give you a sufficiently
free horizon. However, you will do what is possible.

  IYour meeting with Agassiz was very fortunate, and was glad to

hear that the other friends whom you found were likely to prove

agreeable.

We have not much news to send you. The book [" Lessons in
IElementary Chemistry "] is not yet out.       have this day, however,
Icorrected the last proofs of the Index, and fully expect that it will
Ibe ready (and hope a great number sold !) before you arrive here.

My new assistant [Mr. Francis Jones] is a very careful and
accurate worker. He has with great care determined the atomic

weight of vanadium by the loss of weight of VO 3 in hydrogen, and
curiously enough gets exactly Berzelius's number of 68*5 ! This in

two experiments on large quantities. We are now preparing pure

chloride to try again whether we get 67-4 (your number), and we
Ihave got hold of some very queer reactions, which
                                                                can only

understand either by the presence of another metal having the

same (or nearly) atomic weight as Va, or else by the existence of

Ian isomeric (solid) modification of the chloride.  However, time,

   hope, will show.

   My lecture   on June   ist at the   Royal Institution will,  of course,
be shorn of    some of   its interest                           how much
                                       Ias cannot tell them
Ichemical light there is in the tropics, but hope to have enough

to make an interesting hour, and have got some nice experiments to

illustrate the opalescence of the atmosphere.

My wife tells me to remind you to be so good as to bring her

something tropical some birds' skins would do or anything you see

Ior fancy. Only no monkeys, if you please, for me ! hate the animals.

   Your father will doubtless send you all the news of the times, as

well as local information, and so I will only add that the Laboratory

[rowing] crew were again beaten last week. The races were very
good better as regards equality than last year. The umpire, poor

R , got upset and nearly suffocated in the Irwell mud !

   Hoping to see you safe back at the end of July or beginning of

August.

                         117
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

   The day after this letter was written Roscoe
received some of the preliminary results of the
photometric observations, so that he was enabled to
give his Royal Institution audience some idea of the
amount of chemical light in the tropics. He made
this matter one of the chief features of his lecture.

  I have only just time to send what you want over to Liverpool

this afternoon, and to acknowledge your letter of April i4th with
enclosures, which are all very welcome.

The diffused and direct sun experiments are very interesting.

They differ in toto from the Heidelberg results. Pray get some

...more at low elevations of the sun.
I must now close  as the Jerome sails early in the morning.

IP.S.  hope you may be able to get one cloudless day before you
leave, as the clouds evidently much modify the result. It is almost

a pity that you did not go out in the vacation for September and

October, but it cannot be helped now.

  If you get a cloudless day begin early, take four or six sets of

observations (one at noon, of course) until late in the evening, so
as to get the low elevations.

   The Kew observations showed that the mean

chemical intensity for hours equidistant from noon is

practically the same on the same day, and that the
daily maximum of chemical intensity corresponds with
the maximum of solar altitude. Measurements show-
ing the daily rise and fall of chemical intensity for
each of the twenty-four months were obtained, as well

as of the biennial variation for the same period. It

was pointed out that the curve of yearly chemical
intensity is not symmetrical about the vernal and
autumnal equinoxes. Thus for 100 chemically active
rays falling at the spring equinox at Kew, there fell

                                                        118
              Roscoe as an Investigator

at the autumnal equinox 167 rays, the sun's mean
altitude being the same, the difference being probably
due to the greater atmospheric opalescence in the
spring.

    The Pard observations were interesting from the fact
that they were the first measurements of photometric
intensity made within the tropics, and that they
served to dispel certain fallacies about photographic
effects in very hot climates at that time current. The
observations showed that the relation between the
sun's altitude and chemical intensity may be repre-
sented by the equation :

                        C I a = C I + const, a,

where C I a represents the chemical intensity at a
given altitude a in circular measure, C I the chemical
intensity at the altitude o, and const, a a number to
be calculated from the measurements. Comparisons
between the observations at Kew and at Para on
the same days in April showed that the daily mean
chemical intensity at the latter place was from ten to
fifty times greater than at Kew, the wide differences
being due to the enormous and rapid variations in
intensity from hour to hour which the chemically
active rays experience in the tropics during the rainy
season of the year. 1

   The relation between the sun's altitude and the
chemical intensity of daylight was more accurately
determined by the writer from a long series of obser-

   1 " On the Chemical Intensity of Total Daylight at Kew and

Para, 1865-1867." By H. E. Roscoe. Phil. Trans. CLVII. (1867),

PP- 555-570.

                                                        119
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

vations made by Roscoe's method under a cloudless
sky near Lisbon in the autumn of 1867. The fact
was confirmed that the direct sunlight is robbed of
almost all its chemically active rays at altitudes below
10, and that although the chemical intensity for the

same altitude at different places and at different times
of the year varies according to the varying trans-
parency of the atmosphere, yet the relation at the
same place between altitude and intensity is always
represented by a straight line. The differences in the
observed actions for equal altitudes, which may amount
to more than 100 per cent, at different places, and to
nearly as much at the same place at different times of
the year, serve as exact measurements of the varying

transparency of the atmosphere. As illustrating the
wide differences in the daily march of chemical

intensity at various places, it was found that, when
light of unit intensity acting for 24 hours is taken as
1,000, the value of the mean chemical intensity at

Kew is represented by the number 94-5, that at
Lisbon by no, and that at Para by 313 "3. l

    Roscoe's hope that measurements of the chemical
intensity of daylight might become part of the regular
work of meteorological observations has, unfortu-
nately, not been realized. Observations of the kind,
no doubt, consume much time, and if properly
conducted require the whole service of a skilled
assistant. But considering the enormously important

 part played by chemically active light in the economy
 of nature, and more particularly in the phenomena of

    1 " On the Relation between the Sun's Altitude and the Chemical
 Intensity of Total Daylight in a Cloudless Sky." By H. E. Roscoe
 and T. E. Thorpe. Phil. Trans. CLX. (1870), pp. 209-316.

                                                          120
             Roscoe as an Investigator

vegetable life, it cannot be doubted that a sufficiently
long-continued series of observations, systematically
carried out on a well-considered plan, at observatories
distributed over the earth's surface, would afford most
valuable information concerning the facts of solar

energy, and incidentally serve to elucidate many
important collateral questions. With the assistance
of Mr. Horace Darwin, Roscoe made attempts to
devise an automatic arrangement which should
minimize the labour of observation, but in the
absence of any certain assurance that such an
instrument would be utilized, the trials were dis-

continued. 1

   It has been thought desirable, for the sake of

continuity, to describe Roscoe's work on chemical
photometry, arising out of his association with Bunsen,

so long as he continued to pursue that subject. A

subsequent paper will, however, be mentioned later.
    We must now revert to his work when he returned

from Germany.
    On leaving Heidelberg to settle again in London,

as already stated he engaged Dittmar as research
assistant, and they jointly studied, by Bunsen's
methods, the absorption of hydrochloric acid and
ammonia in water, 2 proving that these gases do not
obey Dalton and Henry's law.

    He next attacked, first with Dittmar's and then
with Schorlemmer's assistance, the nature of the

1 " On a Self-recording Method of Measuring the Intensity of the

Chemical Action of Total Daylight." By H. E. Roscoe. Roy. Soc.
       XXII. (1874), pp. 158-159.
Proc.                                     Acid and Ammonia in
   2"  On the Absorption of Hydrochloric

Water." Chem. Soc. Jour. XII. (1860), pp. 128-151.

       121
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

aqueous solutions of the common volatile acids of

constant boiling-point, and showed that although the
ratio of acid to water is constant for a definite boiling-

point under a particular pressure, this does not neces-
sarily indicate the existence of definite hydrates. The

composition of the hydrated acid on boiling is entirely

dependent on the pressure under which it is heated

a strong solution losing acid, and a weak solution

losing water until the residue in each case acquires a

constant composition, depending upon the pressure

under which it is boiled. 1        " Handbuch " was the
   In those days Gmelin's

chief repository of chemical knowledge or the want

of it and many suggestions as to possible profitable
fields of inquiry were to be gleaned from its pages.

One such subject was perchloric acid and its com-

pounds, concerning which but little was then known

beyond the composition of potassium perchlorate,
established by Stadion as far back as 1816. Roscoe,

with Schorlemmer's assistance, made a fairly complete

investigation of perchloric acid and its hydrates, and
a number of its salts. 2

He narrowly escaped a serious accident when

working with ethyl perchlorate, first prepared in 1840
by the American chemists Hare and Boye, and

known to be extremely unstable. He was engaged

in filtering a few cubic centimetres of the liquid into

a test-tube, when the compound exploded with great

   1 "On the Composition of the Aqueous Acids of Constant

Boiling-point." By H. E. Roscoe. Chem. Soc. Jour, XIII. (1861),
        146-164; XV. (1862),
pp.                           pp. 213-216.        By H. E. Roscoe.
        " On Perchloric Acid  and its Hydrates."
     2

Roy. Soc. Proc. II. (1861), pp. 493-503.

                              122
             Roscoe as an Investigator

violence, and a deep hole was bored into the base
of the filter-stand, and many hundreds of fragments
of glass were driven into his hand. That filter-
stand was long an object of interest to visitors in
the private laboratory of the old Owens College. 1

   The writer subsequently prepared thallium per-
chlorate for him in a pure state, determined its
composition, and established its isomorphism with the

alkaline perchlorates, the crystallographic characters
of which had been previously ascertained by Kopp. 2

    But Roscoe's most important contribution to in-
organic chemistry was unquestionably his research
upon vanadium and its compounds, which occupied
him for the greater part of five years. About 1865
his attention was drawn to the occurrence of vanadium

in some of the copper-bearing beds of the Lower
Keuper Sandstone of the Trias which were then

being worked at Alderley Edge and Mottram St.
Andrews in Cheshire. He obtained possession of a
large quantity of a lime precipitate, which was found
to contain about 2 per cent, of vanadic acid. It
was a most unpromising material, but eventually a
method was worked out by which the vanadium was

extracted as an ammonium vanadate : this on heating
yielded vanadic acid. Great difficulty was met with
in freeing the vanadic acid from accompanying phos-
phoric acid. Even small quantities of phosphoric acid
cause the vanadic acid after fusion to solidify as a

1 " Note on Perchloric Ether." By H. E. Roscoe. Chem. Soc.

Jou2r."  XV.   (1862), pp. 213-216.  Thallium  Perchlorate  with the Potas-
         On   the Isomorphism of

sium and Ammonium Perchlorates." By H. E. Roscoe. Chem.
Soc. Jour. IV. (1866), pp. 504-505.

                                     123
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

pitch-like amorphous mass. It was the writer's
privilege to assist in the early stages of this investi-

gation, and it fell to his lot to carry out the various
experiments which eventually served to establish the
composition of the oxides of vanadium, the true nature
of its volatile chloride, the existence of hitherto un-
known oxychlorides, and of the mononitride which
Berzelius had regarded as the metal, and lastly to fix
its real atomic weight and to show that it was
approximately 16 below that assumed by Berzelius.

It was only very gradually that the true chemical
relationships of vanadium revealed themselves. For

a time the indications were contradictory and per-
plexing. The first clue was given by Rammelsberg's
observation that vanadinite is isomorphous with pyro-

morphite and mimetesite analogously constituted
minerals containing phosphorus and arsenic. The
next significant fact to be discovered was that by the
action of a reducing agent it was possible to obtain
a solution of a vanadium oxide which on reoxidation

to vanadic acid appeared to require as much oxygen
as Berzelius's vanadium, regarded as metal, would
have needed. When it was discovered that the

volatile chloride which Berzelius had considered was

a trichloride and free from oxygen, in reality con-
tained oxygen, and was analogous in constitution to
phosphoryl chloride, the whole matter was rapidly
cleared up, and the chemical affinities of vanadium
to phosphorus, arsenic, and the other members of the
trivalent group were established. This, of course,
 necessitated altering the formulae of the vanadium
 compounds hitherto described.

    At the close of the College Session 1866-1867,

                                                        124
             Roscoe as an Investigator

Roscoe took away with him the laboratory journals
containing the results of the inquiry as far as it had
progressed, and worked at them at Roddam Hall,
near Alnwick, which he had taken for the Long
Vacation.

   The following letters have reference to this matter :

                                 RODDAM, NEAR ALNWICK,

                                       August 26, 1867.

...I Iwrite a line to say that hope you are getting on well and that
I shall soon hear from you.      I want you very much to stay with

...me till April to settle the vanadium and light matters and help me
in London with my lectures.            I have at last found out about
           The acid is V2O S like P 2O 5. The chloride VOC1 3
vanadium.

like POC1 3 and the solid chlorides VOC1 2, VOC1, etc. This

explains the isomorphism of the vanadate of lead and the
corresponding phosphate and lots of other points. It becomes

very interesting now.

Pray write a line and say whether you will stay till April, and

when you will be back.

   The first paragraph in the next letter alludes to the
circumstance that the present writer had just returned
from Lisbon, where he had carried out the photo-
metric measurements already referred to.

                       RODDAM HALL, NEAR ALNWICK,

                                       September 12, 1867.

I was very glad to hear by your note received to-day of your safe

arrival and the success of your observations. . . . You did quite

right in returning home rather than wait indefinitely for the Jerome.
The working out of your Para and of the Lisbon direct and diffuse-

light experiments will take some time and labour, but I believe the

results will repay the trouble. . . .
I have been
               up  to the   Dundee [British Association] meeting for
few days, but      now, in  all probability, shall stop here, so that
Ia             I

can at once answer your letter.

                                 125
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

    Please ask Joseph [Heywood] to send me per book -post Pogg.
Ann., vol. 98, in which volume is Rammelsberg's paper on the

isomorphism of vanadates and phosphates. There is no doubt

in my mind that vanadic acid is V2O 5, and it will be exceedingly

interesting to work out the vanadates which must all be explained

as phosphates. The ordinary white NH 3 salt is NH 4VO 3 (like

INaPO 3) and is a meta-vanadate. The bi-vanadates can also be

explained, but all need re-preparation and analysis. Did tell you

that we have now got

 V2 V5, 2 V4, 2 V3, 2 2 (I wish we had V also !)
V2 V2C1 6, 2 V2C1 4, 2 2C1 2, and V2O 2C1 6, or VOC1 3, VOC1 2, VOC1

IAt St. Andrews  saw Professor Heddle ; he has a crystal half

apatite and half vanadinite, and he threw out the suggestion long
... Iago that vanadic acid is V 2O5.
                                              hope you will write soon and
Ilet me hear what you have to say about my plan.
what I think of your ideas.                                     will then write

                             RODDAM,

                                              Tuesday, September 17, 1867.

I have now edited the atomic weight determinations by oxida-
Ition, and also the various oxides of vanadium.
                                                                have now to

do the chlorides. Many points still remain requiring clearing up.

   (1) As regards the slow oxidation of the V2O 3 (Berzelius's

suboxide) ; a sample made on November 13, 1866, weighing
0*7507, weighed on June 12, 1867, o'8733- This corresponds

to an oxide higher than V2O 4 ( = 51*4). Now I want this

oxide and tube drying under the air-pump and weighing care-

fully and keeping for further examination (the weight of tube
and oxide was 3-6066 on June i2th last).

   (2) When a neutral solution of V2O 2 in SO 4H 2, got by zinc

reduction, and neutralized by excess of zinc, is exposed to a

current of air, it goes brown, and this brown colour does not

alter. Analysed by permanganate it would seem to contain
IV2O 4.
         want this confirming.

" B(3ri)tisThryMtinoeragelot gysig" h(tyoouf  a copy  of Greg   and Lettsom's
                                              can go  and call  on Mr. Robt.

P. Greg, Greg Bros., Chancery Lane, and ask him to lend you

the book for me). Under "Vanadinite" you will see some

                             126
Roscoe as an Investigator

mention of Heddle and his observations. I find nothing

about him in Rammelsberg's paper.                               V 2O 3

   (4) Has V2O 4 been prepared by heating the suboxide

in the air at low temperatures ? Is it green ?

The thing above all others necessary for us now is to get the

metal. We must set about this at the beginning of the session.  four

  If you have time before you go away to clear up these
Ipreliminary points shall be glad.

                                      RODDAM,

                                      September 26, 1867.

The first thing to do when we begin will be to try to get the
...metal V = 5i'3 by forming
                            the ammonio-chloride and  reducing
the nitride in ammonia.                               of metal
                              If we only can get 0*5

the question of atomic weight is settled beyond dispute.

  I have now collated all the experiments : (i) On the oxides of
vanadium ; (2) on the determination of atomic weight by reduc-

tion of V2O 5 to V2O 3 ; (3) on the oxychlorides and determination of
atomic weight from the chlorine determinations. These latter require

Ire-calculation as do not know how much should be allowed for as
Iimpurity in the silver. Still, see already that this alteration can be

but very slight, and the numbers agree very well, viz. (i) mean
at. wt. from reduction expts. 51*362 (probable error 0-068); (2)
mean of 9 volumetric chlorine determinations of the oxytrichloride

I61*28; (3) mean of 8 weight determinations of chlorine 61*21, so

that as far as yet see the true atomic weight is 51*30.

  I am obliged by your extract from Greg and Lettsom. When in
ISt. Andrews saw Professor Heddle, and he promised to send me

some crystallized specimens of vanadinite and pyromorphite existing

in one crystal.

  I think I have got quite matter enough for one paper, but I

should like to have the metal if only in sufficient quantity to oxidize
up to V2O 5 and determine the increase. Everything can be very

nicely used, and all fits in well ; but, of course, such a first paper

must in some points be imperfect.
I think it is perhaps best that       Ishould give the lectures, as
Iam sure to want you in London several Saturdays otherwise

should have been very glad for you to have taken the course.

  You will be back on Saturday, October 5th, I suppose. We must

re-calculate all the analyses with the exact atomic weight. This can

                                 127
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

Isoon be done, and should like to get this first part off my hands

before long.

  I hope you are enjoying this splendid autumn weather.

   As regards the blue oxide got by gradual oxidation of V2O 3 (sub-
oxide) we have analyses proving it to be V2O 4 by oxidation. It is

very possible that the further increase in weight is due to the hydra-
tion of this oxide. We must wait until the green substance remains

constant, and we must then determine the water and the V2O S.

Roscoe's first memoir on the subject was read to

the Royal Society on December 19, 1867, and was
made the Bakerian Lecture of that session. 1 On

February 14, 1868, he gave a Friday evening discourse
at the Royal Institution " On Vanadium, one of the
Trivalent Groups of Elements," when the writer acted

as his lecture-assistant. Having arranged the experi-

mental illustrations, the assistant spent a spare half-
hour in wandering through the old laboratories in

the cellars of the Institution, sacred to the genius and
labours of Davy and Faraday. In looking over some

specimens   in a cupboard he came  upon a small bottle
containing   ammonium vanadate,      labelled " Sent to

me by Berzelius. 1831," and on it Faraday's well-

known monogram by way of signature. A portion

of the substance was afterwards placed at Roscoe's

disposal by the late Sir Edward Frankland, at the time
Fullerian Professor of Chemistry. On examination

it was found to contain considerable quantities of phos-

phoric acid, thus serving to indicate the probable cause

of the discrepancy between the numbers obtained by
Berzelius and Roscoe in the course of the atomic

weight determinations. It had been observed that

   1 " Researches on Vanadium." Part I. By H. E. Roscoe.  Phil.

Trans. CLVIII. (1868), pp. 1-28.

            128
             Roscoe as an Investigator

the presence of even traces of phosphorus prevents the
complete reduction in hydrogen of the vanadium pent-
oxide to vanadous oxide.

   Some little time after the appearance of the
first memoir on vanadium, the writer proceeded to
Heidelberg to study under Bunsen, to whom at that
time practically all Roscoe's senior students who were in
a position to go to Germany were sent. It had been
reported in a French periodical on popular science
that Roscoe had been awarded the Copley medal
for his work on vanadium, and of course his former

assistant had hastened to congratulate him on that

event.

                 CAMFIELD PLACE, HATFIELD, HERTS,

                                 September 13, 1868.

   In the first place let me thank you for your letter and congratula-
tions upon the great French discovery ! Many of these Parisian

                                         !)

                                                   iIs,
                                                             I
wonders have after all turned out myths and this last                            believe,
                                 " Medaille de Copley " is,
no exception     the expression  bad French too for the      s"o   far as
am aware, the    French (and                                      Bakerian

Lecture."II ; I  am, however, none the less obliged to you for your

good wishes on this occasion, and for all the valuable help which in

many ways you gave me.

Thanks for your news of my dear friend.  have been very
                                 it

                                               I ;I
                                                                 I
remiss in not writing to him. Tell him so, please and ask him to
send me the first proof-sheets of his " Filtration " paper for me to

translate unless, indeed, you do yourself, as am sure you can

perfectly well. Give B[unsen] my kindest regards, and say that
will write to him soon.

Part             of "Researches on Vanadium," dealing

with the chlorides VC1 VC1 and VC1 and
                                 ,4
                                                        ,3

                                                                             2,

metallic vanadium, which he obtained by heating the

dichloride in hydrogen, was presented to the Royal

                                 129 K
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

Society on June 16, 1869,* and his last memoir,
treating of the bromides, and of certain of the metallic

vanadates, including vanadinite which he prepared

artificially, on April 7, 1 870.2       communication,  " On
   With the mention of a short

Two New Vanadium Minerals/' to the Proceedings of
the Royal Society for              and of a lecture on
" Recent Discoveries   1876,3       Vanadium " at the
                       about

Royal Institution, the foregoing statement includes

all Roscoe's published contributions to the history

of vanadium. As regards original work, he handed

over the subject to his senior students, and under

his inspiration and direction a considerable number

of communications from the Owens College

Laboratory were made to the Chemical Society from

Crow (1876), Bedson (1876), H. Baker (1878), Kay

(1880), Brierley (1886), Hall (1887), and published

in the Transactions of the Chemical Society.

Other noteworthy contributions by Roscoe to

inorganic chemistry are his study of tungsten com-

pounds, in which he describes for the first time the

existence of the pentachloride WC1 5 and the corre-

sponding pentabromide WBr5,4 and his discovery

of uranium pentachloride, UC1 5.5

1 "Researches on Vanadium." Part II.          By H. E.  Roscoe.
Phil Trans. CLIX. (1869), pp. 679-692.        By H. E.  Roscoe.
                                        III.
   2 "Researches on Vanadium." Part

Phil. Trans. CLX. (1870), pp. 317-332.                  Roy.
   3 " On Two New Vanadium Minerals." By H. E. Roscoe.
Soc. Proc. XXV. (1877), pp. 109-112.

  4 "A Study of Certain Tungsten Compounds." By H. E.
Roscoe. Manchester Lit. Phil. Soc. Proc. XI. (1872), pp. 79-9-
s "On a New Chloride of Uranium." By H. E. Roscoe.
Chem. Soc. Jour. XII. (1874), pp. 933~935-

                       130
         Roscoe as an Investigator

   These compounds are of considerable theoretical
interest on account of their " anomalous " character.

He also discovered columbium trichloride, CbCl 3,
which he found to have the remarkable property

of decomposing carbon dioxide when heated in that

gas with the formation of columbium oxychloride,

CbOCl 3, and carbon monoxide          a reaction not

exhibited by any other metallic chloride (Chem. Soc.

Abstracts, 1878, 272), and he determined the vapour

densities of the chlorides of lead and thallium which

he showed to be normal. 1

An examination of the earth metals contained in

samarskite proved      that the rare earth-metal announced
by Delafontaine        under the name of " philippium "

was a mixture of yttrium and terbium. 2

   The spark spectrum of terbium was at the same
time mapped by him and Schuster. An examination

of a specimen of oxide which ought to contain
"philippium" in large quantities if that chemical

element existed showed no conclusive evidence of

any other metals than yttrium or terbium. 3

In 1882 he sent to the French Academy a note on

a re-determination of the atomic weight of carbon

by the method of Dumas and Stas, using Cape

diamonds, and obtained the value 12*002 (O=i6)

as the mean of six experiments (Chem. Soc. Abstracts,

1 " Note on the Specific Gravity of the Vapours of the Chlorides

of Thallium and Lead." By H. E. Roscoe. Roy. Soc. Proc.
XXVII.
   2 "A  (1878),  pp.  426-428.  the  Earth-metals  contained  in
          Study   of   Some of
Samarskite." By H. E. Roscoe. Chem. Soc. Jour. XLI. (1882),

pp. 277-282.

   3 "The Spectrum of Terbium." By H. E. Roscoe and A.
Schuster. Chem. Soc. Jour. XLI. (1882), pp. 283-287.
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

1882, 724). He also showed, with the assistance
of Schuster, that the spectrum of the carbon dioxide
furnished by the South African diamond was identical
with that furnished by other forms of carbon.

    So long as he remained in Manchester Roscoe
was in the habit of making occasional contributions
to the meetings of the Literary and Philosophical
Society on general or local interest. Among these
communications were papers on arsenic - eating in
Styria; on a crystallizable carbon compound in the
Alais meteorite ; on the amount of carbonic acid
in Manchester air ; on the corrosion of leaden hot-
water cisterns ; Dalton's first table of Atomic
Weights, etc. all of which are printed in the
Proceedings or Memoirs of the Society.

    Roscoe was largely instrumental in making
spectrum analysis first known to British men of
science and the British public generally. Almost
immediately after the publication of Bunsen and
Kirchhoffs classical paper in Poggendorjfs Annalen,
he translated it for the Philosophical Magazine.

He also gave many public lectures on the subject,
beginning with that at the Royal Institution on
March i, 1861 one of the most successful of the
many he delivered there. Indeed, there were few
of our larger towns in which he was not invited at
one time or other during the sixties and early

seventies to lecture on that astonishing development
of nineteenth-century science. These lectures in-
volved no inconsiderable effort. They necessitated
much bulky and fragile apparatus difficult to trans-
port. Some of the illustrations could only be shown
to a large audience by means of the electric lantern,

                                                        132
              Roscoe as an Investigator

and this, in those days, needed the provision of a large
battery of Groves's cells ; electricity " laid-on " by a
public authority was not then, as now, almost every-
 where available.

    One of these courses of six lectures given to the
 Society of Apothecaries of London in 1868 was sub-
sequently published, with additions, in an admirably
illustrated volume which had a considerable measure
of success a second edition, still more largely aug-
mented owing to the extraordinary rapidity with
which knowledge on celestial chemistry increased,
being called for within a year. In the preparation
of a third and fourth edition he was assisted by his
friend Dr. Schuster. As the successive editions

show, the rate at which literature accumulated round

the subject was altogether unprecedented in the
history of scientific discovery.

    Roscoe made an attempt to apply the spectroscope
to the Bessemer process of steel manufacture, and for
this purpose caused a long series of observations
to be made, first at Brown's Atlas works in Sheffield,

and then at the Crewe works of the L. & N.W.
Railway Company, when a considerable amount of
information concerning the peculiarities of the
spectrum of the converter-flame was gained, mainly
by the observations of Dr. W. Marshall Watts, a
former student and one of his assistants, who took
over the subsequent conduct of the inquiry.

    Considering his interest in the subject, compara-
tively little original work on spectroscopy was pub-
lished by Roscoe.

   The following is a list of the inquiries with which
he was concerned :

                                                        133
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

" On the Effect of Increased Temperature upon the Nature of

the Light Emitted by the Vapour of Certain Metals on Metallic

Compounds." By H. E. Roscoe and R. B. Clifton. Manchester

Phil. Soc. Proc. II. (1860-1862), pp. 227-230.

   11 Note on the Absorption-spectra of Potassium and Sodium at

Low Temperatures." By H. E. Roscoe and A. Schuster. Roy.
      Proc. XXII. (1874), pp.
Soc.                             362-364.        and  Iodine Mono-
      On the Absorption-spectra      of Bromine
   "

chloride." By H. E. Roscoe and T. E. Thorpe. Phil. Trans.
CLXVII.
            (1878), pp. 207-212.   Spectra  Obtained  from  the  Different
   " Note  on the Identity of the

Allotropic Forms of Carbon." By H. E. Roscoe and A. Schuster.
Manchester Lit. Phil. Soc. Proc. XIX. (1880), pp. 46-49.
   "The Spectrum of Terbium." By H. E. Roscoe and A. Schuster.

Chem. Soc. Jour. XLI. (1882), pp. 283-287.

   The only attempt he was able to make to con-
tribute to our knowledge of the chemistry of the

sun by spectroscopic observations had an unlucky
ending. He formed one of the members of the

Government expedition sent to Sicily to observe
the total solar eclipse of December 22, 1870. The

following letters refer to this subject :

           VICTORIA PARK, MANCHESTER,

                                                 November 2, 1870.

   Lockyer has asked me to go with him in the American Eclipse

Expedition. I Ihave a good mind to do so, but have written to
I Isay that was not sure that could make the observations alone (!),

and that it would be very desirable that you should go too ! So we

shall see what comes of it.

  I am unfortunately laid up with an attack of gout, which quite

disables me and reduces me to the level of the beasts that perish.
IHowever,
           hope soon to be all right again.
I will write to Francis about the Lisbon paper, which ought

certainly to be out. . . .,

   Did Schorlemmer write to you about your attacking the Germans
for attacking the French ? He was quite wild, and came up to me

Iin such a state of excitement that could scarcely understand what

                                   134
             Roscoe as an Investigator

he said. However, under the influence of cigars and a bottle of
sherry he cooled down again and perhaps has buried his resentment.

   Huxley comes for the first of the Science Lectures on Friday.

  I am delighted to hear of your numbers of evening students,
and was much pleased by your Introductory. I have no doubt that

the laboratory will fill too. You must have patience.

OWENS COLLEGE, MANCHESTER,

                                          November 19, 1870.

Of course you come to Sicily. . . . Lockyer thinks of going on
IDecember 8th. Perhaps  may go a day earlier with you if you

can come and spend twenty-four hours in Heidelberg.

  I send box, stand, papers, and all I can find except insolation
affairs which cannot yet be got out of H
                                          's hands. He shall

have no peace till they are ready, and they shall then be sent at

once to you. You will be responsible for the whole apparatus being

in order. Look them over carefully. . . . You know what is wanted.

   Unfortunately H.M.S. Psyche, the vessel conveying
the party from Naples, was wrecked off Aci Reale,
about a couple of miles to the north of the classic
Cyclops rocks, and under the shadow of Etna, by
striking a submerged and uncharted rock. The ship
was badly holed, and rapidly began to fill, but for-

tunately the weather was fine and the sea calm, and
all were got safely on shore. The cliffs were scarcely

200 yards away, but the landing was difficult, the
jagged reefs of lava seeming to afford no sure

footing. Eventually all the instrumental equipment
was also landed, in a more or less damaged condition,

but much of the personal baggage was lost. A letter

written by one of the members of the expedition
which found its way into a Manchester newspaper

thus describes the event :

   We formed ourselves into a line to pass the things along the rocks
to the prominence which we had mounted. . . . Everybody worked

                                                        135
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

with a will, and laboured like galley-slaves. The ship had now

settled down considerably ; the water was up to her quarter, and

the boats pushed off in the expectation that she would roll off the

reef. By this time we had almost stripped the ship of everything easily

movable, and we prepared to get it to a secure place. The nearest

point habitable was Catania, seven miles to the south, and we got

the boats ready to take ourselves and our things thither. . . .

Roscoe assumed command of our expedition. Everybody seemed
Ito look to him instinctively.
                                shall never forget the sight of him,

standing, with his legs apart to steady himself on a narrow piece

of the lava rock, with his arm stretched out, giving his orders with

the authority of one who seemed born to command. As the gig
...Iwas about to push off saw him look round, and when he saw
me he motioned for me to get into it.  In a few hours the

remainder of the party arrived, and shortly afterwards the luggage

and apparatus.

   It was arranged that Roscoe, assisted by the late
Sir George Darwin and Mr. Bowen of Harrow

School, should make observations on the spectrum
of the corona' from a position on Mount Etna as high
as the snow would permit. On the day before that
of the eclipse the party had toiled up more than
5,000 feet of the mountain with their instruments
strapped on the backs of half a dozen mules, to a
deserted hut on the side of the volcano. The night
was spent in a storm of rain and snow, and next
morning, in a piercing wind, the instruments were

put together with benumbed fingers. As the sun

was gradually covered, the sky became clouded over
and the upper part of Etna was completely enveloped
in fog, and during the minute of totality a violent
hailstorm broke over the party, rendering all observa-

tions impossible.

   A number of measurements of the chemical in-

tensity of daylight during the progress of the eclipse

                                                       136
             Roscoe as an Investigator

were, however, made by the writer at Catania, some
little distance away, by the method described by Roscoe
in the Bakerian Lecture for 1865. These showed
that the diminution in the total chemical intensity
of the sun's light during an eclipse is directly pro-
portional to the magnitude of the obscuration of the
solar disc. 1

   This matter is referred to in the following letter.

                                  June ii, 1871.

The results are very interesting, and you have worked them out
Iin an admirable manner.
                          had no idea that so much could be

made out.

  I am writing at once to Airy and Lockyer to ask them whether

we may not send the paper to the Royal Society (last meeting on

IThursday next) so as to have it  in series with our other papers.
                                  the director of all the Russian
      have just heard from Wild,

observatories, that he is anxious to adopt the plan over all the

IRussias, and wants an automatic arrangement. So am going in

for it and hope to get a machine made before long. It is really

too important to be delayed.

   You deserve great credit for your labours, and by rights the paper

should be yours alone^ but perhaps we [had] better keep together.
We can do the automatic affair also together if you like.

The automatic arrangement alluded to has already
been mentioned. It was not proceeded with.

   1 " On the Measurement of the Chemical Intensity of Total Day-
light made at Catania during the Solar Eclipse of December 22,

1870." By H. E. Roscoe and T. E. Thorpe. Phil Trans. CLXI.

(1871), pp. 467-476.

                          137
CHAPTER VIII

ROSCOE AND CHEMICAL LITERATURE

ROSCOE'S services to chemistry are to be measured

as much by his contributions to its educational litera-

ture as by his efforts to enlarge its boundaries by

original inquiry. For there can be no question that

thaisryvar"iofuirsst-tsetxetp-bso"oksa,ndrangpirnimgefrrso, m  the most  elemen-
                                                               through   different

grades to the most comprehensive of treatises, have

proved of the greatest service to the teacher, and have
exercised a profound influence in the diffusion of

chemical knowledge in this country and abroad.

   His " Lessons in Elementary Chemistry," one of

the earliest of Macmillan's series of class text-books,

was first published in 1866, the fair copy for the press

being written out with characteristic neatness by his

wife. Its appearance so soon after the remarkable

report of the Duke of Devonshire's Commission which

had awakened widespread attention to the almost

universal neglect of all science teaching in our public

schools was most timely. The book went through
edition after edition, and despite the competition of

dozens of similar works is still a favourite class-book.

   At the suggestion of his friend Lothar Meyer it

was translated into German by Schorlemmer, and

138
        Roscoe and Chemical Literature

published by Vieweg & Son, and has been largely
used in German schools and colleges. Translations
have also appeared in Russian, Italian, Hungarian,
Polish, Swedish, in modern Greek, Japanese, and in
one of the Indian vernaculars, Urdu. Concerning

this last translation, Roscoe used to tell an amusing
story. The Urdu work was lithographed, not printed,
the page being nearly twice the size of that of the
English original, which was a small octavo. The
illustrations were also proportionately magnified,
including that showing the length of a decimetre
and its sub-divisions of centimetres and millimetres !

   Still more successful, as regards its sale, was his
" Chemistry Primer," published in 1870, and intended

to serve as the first step in chemistry in schools. It

also was widely translated, editions having appeared
in Icelandic, Polish, German, Italian, Japanese,
Bengali, Turkish, Malayalam, and Tamil.

   He also published two text-books on " Inorganic
Chemistry," one for beginners, in conjunction with
Dr. Lunt ; and a larger one for advanced students,
in association with Dr. Harden, each of which has

reached a second edition.

   A far more ambitious undertaking was the prepara-

tion and publication of the large " Treatise on
Chemistry," in the writing of which he had the
invaluable co-operation of his colleague Schorlemmer.
The first volume appeared in 1877. It is so well
known that no description of it is necessary. It is
an eminently readable work, admirably printed and
beautifully illustrated. Indeed, in style and appear-
ance it is hardly approached by anything of the kind
in the language. It was translated into German by

                                                        139
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

Schorlemmer, and published by Vieweg & Son, and
has now largely replaced the time-honoured Graham-
Otto as a text-book in German colleges and technical
schools. Unfortunately, owing to Schorlemmer's
death in 1892, the organic section in the English
edition was never finished. It has, however, been
completed in the German edition under the direction
of the late Professor Briihl of Heidelberg a circum-
stance which would seem to throw some light on the
comparative position of organic chemistry in this
country and in Germany. It ought, however, to be
stated that if the whole of the organic section were
compiled with the same attention to historical detail,
and the same fullness of information that characterizes

the inorganic portion, the work would become practi-

cally unsaleable on account of its size. At the time

the treatise was planned the extraordinary expansion
of organic chemistry which has occurred during the
past forty years could hardly have been anticipated.

It may be, as old Thomas Fuller wrote, that " learning

hath gained most by those books by which the
printers have lost." But philanthropy is not the
first business of publishers.

   The inorganic section of the English work has
passed through several editions, and was thoroughly
revised and largely re-written from time to time with
the help of numerous collaborators. The fifth edition
on " The Metals and their Compounds'* made its
appearance in the autumn of 1913 and is a goodly
volume of nearly 1,500 pages. Roscoe, then in his
eightieth year, worked hard at the revision and read
the proofs with all the care and diligence he expended
on the original work.

                                                       140
Roscoe and Chemical Literature

Some time prior to 1895 he was induced by his

friend, the late Sir Wemyss Reid, to undertake the

editorship of the Century Series of Biographies of
Scientific Men, projected by Cassell & Co. To this

he contributed a popular account of the life and
                                        "
work of Dalton   under   the title of        John Dal ton
and the Rise of  Modern    Chemistry "       a little work

which he wrote with much zest and a thorough

appreciation of the fine character of the grand old

Cumbrian    Quaker.      been  made  of the  " New  View
   Mention  has already

of Dalton's Atomic Theory," which Roscoe published
in collaboration with Dr. Harden. This book is of

considerable interest and value in regard to the

genesis of a conception which marks a turning-point
in the history of chemistry. From a careful study of

Dalton's manuscripts and note-books which had been
discovered in the rooms of the Literary and Philo-

sophical Society of Manchester, the authors were led
to conclusions concerning the origin of the atomic

theory of chemistry which differ fundamentally from
those which had been generally accepted. It had

hitherto been supposed that it was the experimental
discovery of the law of combination in multiple pro-
portions which, in his search for an explanation of this

fact, led Dalton to the idea that chemical combination

consists in the approximation of atoms of definite

and characteristic weight, the theory of atoms being

adopted to explain the facts discovered by chemical

analysis. In reality the exact opposite was the case.
It was the theory of the existence of atoms of different

weights that led Dalton to the discovery of the facts

of combination in multiple proportions.

                         141
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

The late Dr. Debus, some two years previously

in a pamphlet published at Cassel, had reached a

similar conclusion from a study of Dalton's published
works, but by a different line of argument. As a

matter of priority there is no doubt that to Debus

belongs the credit of first pointing out that the

commonly accepted view of the genesis of Dalton's

atomic theory is erroneous, but it is no less true that

the method of reasoning by which he came to that

conclusion cannot be substantiated even if it is not

actually disproved by the evidence from Dalton's

                Of course the idea of atoms, that
note-books.     It

of small indivisible particles, did not, asit popularly
                            it
supposed, originate with Dalton         it :  older than
                                             it
                                                      is
                                                         is
                                                                    it

                                                                                  is,
Science itself. How and where first arose cannot

be exactly stated. Dr. Debus attributes            to

Moschus,     a  Phoenician philosopher living at Sidon

about noo B.C.  was resuscitated by Gassendi in

the middle of the seventeenth century, and applied

by Boyle, who speaks of as the Phoenician philo-

sophy, to the explanation of chemical phenomena.

Newton made use of to explain Boyle's law and
the " spring of air." Dalton almost certainly derived

from Newton, with whose corpuscular notions he
it
was quite familiar, and employed              to explain the
   It                        it
phenomena of diffusion and absorption. He wasit it

therefore quite ready to extend               to all gaseous

phenomena, and indeed to chemical phenomena in

general, to the extent that    seemed applicable.

       has been held that Dalton anticipated Avogadro

in assuming that all gases contain equal numbers
of " atoms" (molecules).
                               Dr. Debus adopts this

view, and assumes that Dalton in 1801 made use

                          142
       Roscoe and Chemical Literature

of it to explain the phenomena of the diffusion of
gases, and that this idea, along with his early ex-
periments on nitric oxide and oxygen, led to his
atomic theory. Roscoe and Harden, on the other
hand, held that Dalton never definitely held the
view that equal volumes of gases contain an equal
number of atoms (molecules), nor had such a con-
ception any bearing upon his explanation of the
facts of diffusion. Dissatisfied with the theory which
he did hold (viz. the repulsion exerted by an atom
on all others of its kind, but not on atoms of a
different kind), he was led to consider the behaviour
of atoms of unequal size, and finding an agreement
with the observed facts, he then sought for means of
determining whether or not the atoms were actually
of unequal size, and so was led to the further devel-
opments of the theory. The weight of the evidence
goes to show that ^Dalton arrived at his theory in
the latter half of 1803, and that the assumption on
which it turned was " that no two species [of pure
elastic fluids] agree in the size of their particles."
There is no clear indication that Dalton ever
imagined that the simple gases were diatomic in
structure, which, of course, is the main point in
Avogadro's hypothesis. It seems necessary to set
out this matter in some detail as misapprehension
appears to exist, especially in Germany, as to the
merits of the controversy which arose after the
appearance of Roscoe and Harden's work.

    Some years after he had reached the allotted span,
Roscoe was induced to think of putting his reminis-

cences on paper. It was at no time easy to get

                                                        143
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

 him to talk about himself, and the effort of recalling
 his recollections with a view to printing them was
 irksome to him. The autobiography consequently
 made no very rapid progress ; it ultimately got into
 something like a tangle, and was more than once
 on the point of being committed to the flames.
 However, during a particularly stormy winter at the

 seaside, when he was confined to the house, a sustained

 effort on the part of a determined coadjutor got it
into shape, and under the title of " The Life and
 Experiences of Sir Henry Enfield Roscoe, D.C.L.,

LL.D., F.R.S. Written by Himself," it was pub-

lished by Macmillans in the spring of 1906. The
book was well received. It was recognized as pos-
sessing at least two of the main essentials of a
successful autobiography something worth writing
about and the faculty of narration. It is written

with sincerity and directness, and with, as one critic
said, " a charming simplicity of style and thought,
illumined throughout by a soft glow of kindly
humour" eminently characteristic of its author, and
is of interest as a record of a singularly full and
varied career. The gospel of work never had a

more strenuous disciple. It has historical value also
as the story of the educational changes, particularly

in science, which he helped to secure or lived to

witness. It reflects many of his noteworthy features :

his strong common sense ; his straightforwardness
and honesty of purpose ; his liberality and invincible

optimism : his geniality and sense of humour. His
enjoyment of a good story makes him tell it even if
he is the victim of it. The whole is a pleasing
picture of a uniformly calm, contented, and suc-

                                                        144
is,    Roscoe and Chemical Literature

cessful life of the life of one who was what the

Romans called "a man of good fortune," that

of one whose prosperity was not the result of
chance or accident, but of wisdom and the capacity
to bring its aims and efforts to a successful ending.

                                                        145
                CHAPTER IX

     ROSCOE AND THE ORGANIZATION OF SCIENTIFIC
                                        SOCIETIES

ROSCOE was elected into the Royal Society in 1863,

and served on its Council from 1872 to 1877, and

again during two subsequent periods, viz. 1881-

1883 and 1888-1890.  He was a Vice-President

in 1881-1882, and again in 1888-1890. He gave

two  Bakerian   Lectures, viz.   in    1865  "  and 1868, and
was  awarded a  Royal Medal     in   1873
                                                f r his various

Chemical Researches, more especially for his Investi-

gations of the Chemical Action of Light, and of

the Combinations of Vanadium."

He joined the Chemical Society in 1855, and

was a member of its Council in 1860-1864, and again

in 1871-1873. He was a Vice-President in 1873-1875,
and again in 1877-1880, and was President from 1880

to 1882. His two presidential addresses, "abstracts

and brief chronicles of the time," dealt mainly

with the results of chemical inquiry during the

preceding year, especially in relation to the inorganic

section of the science. On the first occasion it fell

to his duty to refer to the death of Sir Benjamin C.

Brodie, a former secretary and president of the

Society, whose friendship, as his autobiography

                     146
          Roscoe and Scientific Societies

 testifies, he valued " as that of a true, generous, and
 noble-hearted man."

     Roscoe was the Maecenas of the Chemical Society.
 Indeed, he may be said to have resembled that
 grand seigneur in the simplicity and cordiality which,
 as the poet tells us, characterized his relations to the
 men of his circle. Certainly no Fellow of the Society

 ever showed himself a more beneficent or more

 generous patron. The walls of its rooms bear
 witness to his kindly thought and constant remem-
 brance. Its library has been augmented by gifts
 from him of close upon a thousand volumes, including
 rare alchemical and early chemical works, and of
complete sets of some of the most valuable of the
serial publications of the science.

    It was in grateful recognition of this liberal and
warm-hearted encouragement of the objects for which

the Society was instituted that his old pupils resolved
to commemorate his connection with it by placing,
on the occasion of his eightieth birthday, his bust
in the library which he had done so much to enrich,
and at the same time to offer a replica of Mr. Dairy's
admirable work to his family.

    Roscoe was one of the original members of the
Society of Chemical Industry, and took a leading
part in establishing it on its present basis as a
national institution, with local sections in many of
our principal towns, and branches in certain of our
colonies, and in America. How it originated may
be gleaned from the following letter. There had
been a previous attempt to establish a local society
with special reference to the South Lancashire
district. But Roscoe, with others of its projectors,

                                                        147
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

had conceived the idea of placing it on a wider
plane, and the meeting referred to was called to
ascertain the general feeling as to the expediency
of the action.

                              THE OWENS COLLEGE, MANCHESTER,

                                                                 April 13, '80.

   We are going to have a meeting here on Monday next, at 7 p.m.,
of chemical manufacturers and others, to consider the question of
the establishment of a Lancashire Chemical Society, or of a more
General Institute or Society of Chemical Engineers.

  If you can come over I should be very glad, as it is likely to be

an important meeting and your opinion would be of value.

  I congratulate you (and Mrs. Thorpe) on your completion of the

paper. We are to decide, or begin to decide, about the Chemical

Society Medal on Thursday, and I hope it will be settled to your

satisfaction.

At this gathering it was decided to attempt to

establish a society to subserve the general interests

of chemical industry and not merely those of the

South Lancashire district, and to call a meeting in

London to discuss the project. He presided at

this meeting in the rooms of the Chemical Society

when the Society was formally inaugurated.  He

served as its first President, and was the first chair-

man of its Manchester section. He opened the

proceedings of its first annual general meeting in
1 88 1 with an account of the reasons for the forma-

tion of such a society ; he indicated its proposed

scope, and dwelt upon the many advantages to

science and industry that might be expected to

follow its creation. What he said then is not

less pertinent now. Perhaps, indeed, it is even

more so. His words were words of wisdom and

of warning. Read in the fierce light of current

148
         Roscoe and Scientific Societies

events, and of present disabilities, we may well
inquire whether the generation that has passed has
been as mindful as he had hoped it would be of

its opportunities. If it had quickened its energies

and marshalled its forces as he encouraged it to

do, we should have been better able to meet the

strenuous times that are now in store for us. For

upwards of a century ever since, indeed, the
renascence of chemical science which originated
with Lavoisier far-sighted men have been preaching
the same story. But to the great majority in this
country it has been as seed fallen by the wayside.
Not so abroad. Thanks mainly to a clearer recog-
nition of the part that science plays under the
changing and progressive conditions of modern life,
other nations have been more heedful : the seed
with them fell upon more receptive soil. The
catastrophe which has overtaken us has brought a
rude awakening. We are beginning to realize the
imperfection of a system of national education which
has no adequate relation to present-day necessities.

    Roscoe, one is consoled to think, lived to see the
evidence of this quickening. The doctrine which he
preached with an insistency and pertinacity that never
flagged, during more than half a century, is now,
under the stress of necessity, coming home to men's
business and bosoms as it never did before.

    One proof of the Society's recognition of its
indebtedness to its first President may be seen
in the award to him of its medal on the occasion
of the Nottingham meeting in 1914.

    In 1909 he was Honorary President of the
 Seventh International Congress of Applied Chemistry

                                                        149
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

which met in London in that year. It was his wish
that his friend, Dr. Ludwig Mond, as an eminent

industrial chemist, should be appointed to that
office, but Mond declined the position and proposed
 Roscoe's name instead at the preceding meeting in
Rome.

   To Roscoe, therefore, fell the honour of introducing
the Prince and Princess of Wales our present King
and Queen to the meeting of three thousand in-
dustrial chemists assembled in the Albert Hall, when

the Prince welcomed the gathering in a felicitous
speech. The foreign delegates were afterwards

received in private audience by King Edward VII,

when Roscoe, as Honorary President, had the
honour of presenting them.

    Roscoe's first introduction to the British Associa-

tion was at the Glasgow meeting in 1855, when the
late Lord Playfair was President of the Chemical
Section, and when he himself acted as the secretary.

At this meeting he read a paper on the results of a
joint investigation with Bunsen on the action of light
upon chlorine water, an examination and extension of
Wittwer's work on the same subject. This was sub-
sequently published in the Journal of the Chemical
Society and in Liebigs Annalen. As already stated,
he acted as one of the local secretaries at the
Manchester meeting of 1861, when he presented a
report jointly with the late Drs. Schunck and R.
Angus Smith, " On the Condition of Manufacturing
Chemistry in the South Lancashire District " {Brit.
Assoc. Rep. 1861, pp. 108-128). At the Bath meet-
ing in 1864 he gave one of the evening lectures
on the chemical action of light. At the Liverpool

                                                        150
         Roscoe and Scientific Societies

meeting of 1870 he presided over the Chemistry
Section.

    Then, as now, France and Germany were at war,
and that fact naturally called for reference. But,
Eheu ! neither the cosmopolitan character of Science
to which he then alluded, nor upwards of forty years
of that comity among those interested in Science and
its applications which he confidently hoped would
" render impossible the breaking out of disasters so
fatal to the progress of Science and to the welfare of
humanity ! " as he then witnessed, have served to
avert an even more fearful disaster. The small but

living fire which he contended would in the end surely
serve to melt down national animosities has been

now almost wholly extinguished by the arrogant pride
and lust of power which has obsessed a nation claim-
ing to be the most enlightened in the world.

   In 1884 he again served as President of the
Chemical Section at the meeting in Montreal. In
1887 he was President of the Association at the
Manchester meeting in that year an honour he
prized all the more on account of his long association
with that city. The meeting was notable as being
the largest held since the foundation of the Associa-
tion, and was specially characterized by the number
of foreign chemists who were present. He continued
to take an active interest in the affairs of the Associa-
tion up to the time of his death, and was a constant
attendant at the meetings of its Council.
                     CHAPTER X

PUBLIC SERVICES POLITICAL AND PROFESSIONAL WORK

ROSCOE'S position in the educational world, and
in scientific circles, coupled with his well-known
business capacity and sound judgment, frequently
led to his being invited to place his knowledge and
experience at the service of the State in connection
with Royal Commissions and Departmental Com-
mittees. During his tenure of his professorship at
Manchester he served on two important Royal
Commissions ; the first in 1876, when Mr. Cross,
then Home Secretary, nominated him as a member
of Lord Aberdare's Commission on Noxious Vapours,
which led to the amended Alkali Acts of 1891

and 1892; the second in 1881, when Mr. A. J.

Mundella, then Vice-President of the Education
Council, appointed him a member of Sir Bernhard
Samuelson's Commission on Technical Instruction
one of the most important Commissions ever issued
by reason of its influence on the industrial history
of this country. Roscoe threw himself heart and
soul into its work. The task was thoroughly con-
genial to him, for he was profoundly convinced of
its importance. It required long and frequent visits
abroad in order to inquire into the methods of the
continental trade-schools and polytechnics, and to

                                                        152
Public Services

judge by direct observation of their results. The
preparation of the Report was a tedious and com-
plicated business, but with the help of his colleagues,
whom he invited to his holiday-home in the Lakes,
it was gradually, as he says, " licked into shape,"

the last touches to its recommendations being made

at the Chairman's country house in Devonshire.

   During the ten years that followed the publication
of the Report, Roscoe, in common with several of

his colleagues, addressed innumerable public meetings

throughout the country in order to make its lessons
as widely known as possible. The work of the
Commission bore fruit in the Technical Instruction

Act of 1889, an d still later and to a greater extent
in the Education Act of 1902. This last measure
was preceded by the Royal Commission on Secondary

Education, of which Roscoe was a member under

the chairmanship of the present Lord Bryce. In

1896 he introduced a strong and representative de-

putation to urge upon the Lord President of the

Council the desirability of taking steps to enforce

its recommendations.  It was then intimated that

it was the intention of the Government to intro-

duce legislation dealing with the organization of
our secondary schools thus foreshadowing the Act

of 1902.
   Although more than thirty years have passed

since the Report of the Technical Instruction Com-

mission was issued, it may still be read with profit.
Indeed, the lessons it teaches are singularly applic-
able to the present juncture. In spite of what has
been accomplished, Roscoe was far from being satis-
fied with our national position. In 1906 he wrote :

                      153
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

Much remains for us in England to accomplish in the organiza-

tion of our secondary and scientific training, in which our com-

petitors are before us, and of which the importance and the effects

are well summed  "uWp ein  the  following  opinion  of an  eminent German
manufacturer :             in   Germany     do not   care   whether you in

England are Free-traders or Protectionists, but what we are afraid of

is that some day your people will wake up to the necessity of

having a complete system of technical and scientific education, and

then with your energetic population, with your insular position,

and with your stores of raw material it will be difficult, or it may

be impossible, for us to compete."

In 1884 a knighthood was conferred on him, as

stated in Mr. Gladstone's letter when intimating the
Queen's pleasure, "in acknowledgment of his dis-

tinguished service on the Technical                        Education
Commission. 1'

    Roscoe has recorded in his autobiography the
circumstances, altogether unexpected by him, which
led to his introduction to active political life. He
was elected for South Manchester a constituency
largely composed of the upper and middle class
in 1885, the first Member of Parliament for the

division in which the University is situated and
the only Liberal then returned for the city. He
held his seat during two succeeding elections (1886
and 1892), but lost it in 1895, by a narrow majority,
to the Marquis of Lome. Although frequently
solicited to re-enter Parliament he felt, to use his
own phrase, that he "had had enough."

    Roscoe was a strong and consistent Liberal, a
member of the Manchester School of Economists,
and a devoted adherent of Mr. Gladstone, whom he

followed in the Home Rule split. During the

                                                       154
       Political and Professional Work

greater part of his parliamentary career, that is
from 1886 to 1892, he sat on the Opposition benches,
and had therefore comparatively little opportunity of
accomplishing much in the way of legislative achieve-
ment. On questions involving scientific matters he
could always secure the ear of the House, especially
when these related to the comfort and well-being
of its members, as when he took in hand the ventila-
tion, lighting, and drainage of the Palace of West-
minster. In 1888, and again in 1889, he introduced
a Technical Education Bill, but it failed to reach
the statute-book. In the latter year, however, the
Government passed the Technical Instruction Act
already referred to ; this, although not wholly in
accord with the views he had put forward, he
gladly accepted as a satisfactory instalment. His
efforts to pass an amending Bill in the following year
met with no success. In 1891 the National Associa-
tion for the Promotion of Technical Education,

which was founded as a result of the Report of the
Royal Commission of 1881, entrusted him with a
Bill to remove certain disabilities which had been

found to attend the working of the Act of 1889, and
this he succeeded in carrying. It was one of the few
private Bills of the session of 1891 that became law.

   He was frequently called upon to serve upon

select committees, and in his last session he was

Chairman of the Select Committee on Weights and
Measures which led to Mr. Balfour's Bill for lega-
lizing the use of the metrical system in this country.

   Roscoe was a Vice-President of the Decimal

Association, and lost no opportunity of advocating
the use of a system of weights and measures

                                                        155
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

which practically every other civilized community
has found it expedient to adopt. The reform
of the method of holding parliamentary elec-
tions, continuation schools, opening museums on
Sundays, the housing of the science collections at
South Kensington, grants to University colleges,
industrial employment in Ireland, limitation of
moisture in weaving sheds, river pollution were all
questions upon which he was able to exercise his
influence and knowledge, and most of which he
lived to see satisfactorily settled. But, on the

whole, he found little satisfaction in his parliamentary
life. There was much in it that was irksome and
distasteful to a man of his active and independent

mind. It was unfortunate for him that the greater
part of his political career should have to be spent

in opposition, thus affording him only limited oppor-
tunities of initiating legislative action. Owing to the
political circumstances of the time many questions
with which he was specially qualified to deal never
came up for consideration. Others were only dis-
cussed for the purpose of " marking time," and
he deplored the loss of opportunity and waste of

effort thereby involved. His rejection in 1895,

therefore, occasioned him no very great concern.

 Whatever feeling of disappointment he may have
 felt soon passed away, and he quickly went back
to his old occupations, and to pursuits more con-
genial to him than haunting the precincts of the
 House of Commons. The following letter from

Woodcote, under date July 20, 1895, affords some
 indication of the way in which he regarded the loss
 of his seat.

                                                         156
      Political and Professional Work

IMany thanks for your kind note. As you surmise, do not feel
Ipersonally much regret at my own defeat.
                                                 could tell you some-

thing of the way the thing was worked.
Now I feel an " old freeman," and able to do much more what I
Ilike. But this not always for do not see my way just now to
Iaccept your invitation.
                          have been worked up with the election,

and have to be careful, so that with this, and with the present

uncertainty of weather, I think I am safer on entire dry land.

We are thankful for rain which loveth the thirsty land and makes

things green again.
Is it true that the " burning bush " manufactures         C2H SOH
If[alcohol]?
              so, that is really interesting. 1          results as
IHarden and
                     have found some most interesting
Iregards the genesis of the atomic theory, and am going to work

them up.                                                 I should
   How about Davy ? . . . The editor asks for more, and
                                                         of Davy.
be pleased to satisfy his maw by giving him a lump
Kindest regards.

   Shortly after his removal to London he became

interested in the sewage problem of the Metropolis,

and was called upon to advise the Metropolitan Board
of Works with respect to methods for improving the

condition of the river Thames. In connection with

this work he established a laboratory, specially
equipped for studying its problems, in the Earl's
Court Road, not far from his London residence.

During the year 1887 he was engaged, with the assist-
ance of his former pupil Mr. Harry Baker, in reporting
to Lord Magheramorne, the Chairman of the Metro-

   1 This query refers to the circumstance   that at the time Lady
Roscoe was growing Dictamnus Fraxinella      the so-called " burning
bush " for the writer, who had undertaken   to investigate the cause

of the phenomenon which has given the plant its trivial name. The

ready inflammability was found to be due to the accumulation in

the vesicles on the flower-stems of small quantities of an essential

oil.

                          157
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

politan Board of Works, on the chemical methods

employed for the deodorization of sewage (a) in the

metropolitan sewers, and                            at the outfalls. Early
:

                                               (b)
in 1888 much larger problems were submitted to

him viz. the purification of the sewage, the disposal
of the sludge, and the effect of the discharge of

sewage sludge at sea on the foreshores of the estuary
of the Thames. In connection with these subjects

he became impressed with the importance of obtain-

ing accurate scientific methods for determining the

changes which polluted water experiences during its
natural purification. Some of the results of his

inquiries he published in conjunction with his pupil
Mr. Joseph Lunt in two memoirs, one " On Schiitzen-

berger's Process for the Estimation of Dissolved
Oxygen in Water," communicated to the Chemical

Society in 1889, and published in the Transactions*
and the other entitled " Contributions to the Chemical

Bacteriology of Sewage," which appeared in the

Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society. -
The former paper contained the results of a careful
investigation of the conditions under which this
21
method
            is
                                     I

                                                                     5
                                                               8

                                                                                                                                                                       2
              alone trustworthy, and served to explain

the causes of the discrepancy between the statements
of previous observers who had critically examined it.
The latter paper gave the results of a protracted

examination of the chemical and bacteriological

phenomena of crude sewage with the object of

" On Schiitzenberger's Process for the Estimation of Dissolved

Oxygen in Water." By H. E. Roscoe and Joseph Lunt. Chem. Soc.

Trans. (1889), LV.     552.    Chemical  Bacteriology  of Sewage."  By
      " Contributions  to the

H. E. Roscoe and Joseph Lunt. Phil. Trans. (1891), CLXXXII.

pp. 633-664.
        Political and Professional Work

 ascertaining the species of organisms present, both
 pathogenic and saprophytic, and of determining their
 chemical characteristics.

     These investigations were carried on for more than
 two years, concurrently with the technical and outside
 work required. During this time purification works
 had been established at Crossness and Barking out-
 falls, a sludge ship had been provided for the disposal
 of the sewage sludge at sea, and the effect of the
 discharge had been studied in the lower reaches and
 estuary of the Thames, and a chemical survey of the
 condition of the foreshores had been completed. But
 the formation of the London County Council, with
 Lord Rosebery as the first Chairman, involved new
arrangements. This circumstance, combined with the
death of Sir Joseph Bazalgette, the Chief Engineer,
and the opposition of the Labour Party, resulted in
Roscoe resigning his post as Scientific Adviser.

    Mr. Lunt transferred his services to the British
Institute of Preventive Medicine, but Roscoe con-

tinued to carry on his laboratory with the assistance
of Mr. Frank Scudder until 1898. During this
period he acted as chemical adviser to sanitary
authorities all over the country on questions of

sewage purification and water-supply ; and was
frequently consulted by manufacturers on works-

processes, and on legal, patent, and trade-mark
cases, and in connection with parliamentary inquiries,
e.g. humidity and purity of air in textile mills, flash-

point of paraffin oils, etc. He was further concerned
in the promotion of Bills for the creation of rivers
boards, as, for example, those of the Mersey and
Irwell and West Riding. He gave considerable

                                                       159
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

attention to the question of the manufacture and
use of water gas (" carburetted " and "blue" gas),
and inspected most of the water-gas plants then in
operation in England and on the Continent, sending
Mr. Scudder to visit and report on the installations
in the principal cities of America. In 1898 they
both gave evidence before a Parliamentary Com-
mittee on the question of restricting the amount of
the poisonous carbonic oxide in town gas.

    In 1891 Roscoe's services were retained by the
Mersey and Irwell Joint Committee to report on the
influence of the various manufacturing works in the
Mersey and Irwell basins in polluting the streams,
and as to the best means of preventing it. In
 1893 tne Committee made the position of Scientific
Adviser a permanent appointment, and established
a properly equipped laboratory in Manchester in
connection with its work. Roscoe retained the
appointment until 1905, when the frequent journeys
to attend the meetings of the Joint Committee
 began to tell upon his health, and at his suggestion
 Mr. Scudder was appointed to succeed him. The
 London laboratory was given up in 1908.

                                                   1 60
            CHAPTER XI

UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ETON COLLEGE UNIVERSITY

COLLEGE OF DUNDEE SCOTTISH UNIVERSITIES

COMMISSION  ROYAL COMMISSION OF THE 1851
EXHIBITION  CARNEGIE TRUST I SCOTTISH UNIVER-

SITIES SCIENCE AND ART DEPARTMENT : SCIENCE

MUSEUMS LISTER INSTITUTE OF PREVENTIVE

MEDICINE

ROSCOE was long and honourably connected with

the University of London. A graduate in 1853, he

acted as examiner in chemistry from 1874 to 1878.

It was largely through his action that practical

laboratory work was included in the curriculum in

chemistry for science degrees. This not only greatly

enhanced their status, but reacted beneficially upon
the general character of laboratory instruction
throughout the country. On relinquishing parlia-
mentary work he became a member of the Senate,
and took part in the movement for the reform of
the University which led incidentally to the forma-
tion of an association of teachers and others for the
promotion of a so-called Professorial University, of
which Huxley was President. The following letter

refers to this circumstance :

                                                  161 M
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

                                                                               MANCHESTER,

  I June 26, 1892.

       am delighted to hear that Huxley has joined and is to be

President of the Association. It will give me pleasure to act as

a Vice-President with Jebb.
   Things look very well, and our views must greatly influence the

Royal Commission.

  I will try to secure names here. My wife sends a list per parcel

post.

He made proposals with the idea of uniting what

have come to be called the Internal and External

sides of the University, and in his evidence before

Lord Cowper's Commission he suggested a machinery
of a less cumbrous and, as he hoped, of a more

satisfactory character than that which became law in

1898. In 1896 he succeeded Sir Julian Goldsmid as
Vice-Chancellor. It was during his term of office that

the Act of 1898, which reconstituted the University as

the result of Earl Cowper's Commission, was passed.
As Vice-Chancellor it became his duty to watch the

progress of the measure, and to use his influence

in promoting its passage through Parliament.

Unfortunately the University was as a house

divided against itself. One section of its Senate,

numerically not very strong, was avowedly hostile

to its reconstitution as a teaching body. Some

members of Convocation acted as if their conception

of the sole purpose of a University was the holding
of examinations and the giving of degrees. Their

object, apparently, was to strengthen by all possible

means the influence of Convocation ; to make  it,  in

fact, the main controlling power. Accordingly, they

used such parliamentary support as they could
command to wreck the Bill, or failing that, so to

162
              University of London

modify its provisions as to preserve as far as possible
the existing constitution of the institution, and to
perpetuate its restricted functions. Thanks, how-
ever, to the action and alertness of Lord Bryce,

Lord Haldane, Sir W. Priestley, and Sir John Gorst,

and the firmness of the Government, the measure

was steered safely through Parliament and received

the Royal Assent.
   The statutory commission which followed the

University of London Act of 1898 reported in
1 900 ; its provisions were approved by Parliament
in June of that year, and the new Senate held its
first meeting in the following October. Roscoe took
an active share in the rearrangements consequent
on the reconstitution of the University, and in the

changes necessitated by its removal from Burlington
Gardens to the buildings of the Imperial Institute at

South Kensington.

   This last step was a somewhat delicate matter. As
housed in Burlington Gardens the University was only

moderately well provided for as regards examination-
rooms and administrative offices, but such labora-

tories and store-rooms as it possessed were wholly
inadequate for the practical work required in the
examinations for science and medical degrees. The
pressure on the limited space grew more severe each
session, and for some time previous to 1898 the
 necessity of making fresh provision had forced itself
 upon the notice of the authorities. The wants of
the University in this respect had been freely
 ventilated in the course of the discussion on the Bill.
 Accordingly, overtures were made to the Senate to
 take over some portion of the building of the Imperial

                                                         163
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

 Institute as a home for the reconstituted University.
 The offer was not received with any great enthusiasm.
 The Imperial Institute had not fulfilled the anticipa-
 tions of its projectors ; its associations, to say the
 least, were not altogether academic, and this cir-

cumstance naturally created a prejudice against it.
 Moreover, the building itself, although grandiose in
design, and possessing an admirable facade, was
rather like the geometrical definition of a line length
without breadth ; and when that portion of it intended
to be assigned to the University was measured up,
it was actually not much, if any, larger in superficial
area than was available in Burlington Gardens.
There was, however, more space in the neighbour-
hood, and a certain amount of rearrangement and
new construction was possible. Moreover, the

authorities of the Science and Art Department were

projecting new laboratories for chemistry and physics,
and it was hoped that facilities might be granted to
the University to enable them, under certain con-
ditions, to use them, or some portion of them, for
their practical examinations in those sciences. But
objections were raised in regard to the geographical
position of the building, its distance from the main-
line stations, etc. Its possible association with what
was styled "the South Kensington clique" was
another rock of offence.

   There were possible difficulties also with the Coun-
cil of the Institute as to the partition of the structure,
use of the main entrance, etc. But all these matters
were adjusted eventually by the skill, tact, and firm-
ness of the Vice-Chancellor, with the concurrence of
the Treasury and of the Office of Works ; and the

                                                       164
                      Eton College

University entered into the possession of the eastern
half of the building.

   Not the least of the services which Roscoe ren-
dered to the University was his action with regard to
the selection of the late Sir Arthur Rlicker as its first
Principal. It was entirely through his efforts that the
appointment was made. Its success, he says in his
" Life and Experiences," more than justified those
efforts, and he always spoke of it as the best day's
work he ever did for the University.

    Roscoe resigned the Vice-Chancellorship in 1902,
when he presented to the University the handsome
mace which now lies on the table during the meetings
of the Senate, and which is used on ceremonial

occasions. It was so employed, draped in crape, at
the memorial service held in Rosslyn Hill Chapel

at his death.
   He remained a member of the Senate until 1910,

when age and increasing deafness necessitated his
retirement. In the resolution of condolence which
the Senate passed at its first meeting after his death,
they recalled with gratitude and admiration the great
services he had rendered to the University during the
twenty -one years of his membership of the Senate, at
first as Fellow and later as one of the representa-

tives of His Majesty in Council ; and especially the
wisdom, born of long experience in academic adminis-
tration, with which he guided the University during
the six years of his Vice-Chancellorship, which wit-
nessed its reconstitution under the Act of 1898.

   Roscoe was a Fellow of Eton College, as a repre-
sentative of the Royal Society, from 1889 to 1912,

                                                        165
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

and did what he could during the twenty-three years

he served on the Governing Body to overcome what
he terms "the enormous inertia of this ancient
machine." He sought to further the teaching of
physical science in the School by himself giving
lectures, and through his efforts it is the richer by no

less than one large and one small physical laboratory,

a physics lecture-room, a workshop, and two more
chemical laboratories, with store-rooms, etc. He also
reorganized the system of teaching, and introduced
graduated courses, which have resulted in an all-round
improvement. Nevertheless, the results have not been

commensurate with all the hard work and enthusiasm

he put into his efforts. They have been largely dis-
counted by factors over which he had no control. No

one realized this more clearly than himself, and he
felt keenly the disappointment of his hopes, so much

so that more than once he considered the advisability
of resigning his Fellowship as a protest. He earned
the gratitude of the science staff by his uniform kind-
ness and sympathy, and by the readiness with which
he would discuss their difficulties with them and help
them with advice and encouragement.

   As the representative of the Royal Society, his
chief interests lay with the teaching of physical
science, but they did not rest there. No Fellow

worked harder for the general welfare of the School.
In order to make himself acquainted first-hand with
facts connected with the subjects to be discussed at
the meetings of the Provost and Fellows, he con-

stantly visited Eton. His opinion and advice on all
sorts of questions were sought and respected, and
he has left behind him a record of whole-hearted

                                                   1 66
       Scottish Universities Commission

service to the School that will long be remembered
with appreciation and gratitude.

    Roscoe's experience as an educationist, and his
success in furthering the development of Owens Col-
lege, naturally caused him to be consulted when insti-
tutions of a similar type were projected, and he was
occasionally induced to take part in their foundation
and government. Thus he had a large share in the
arrangement of the curriculum of the University Col-
lege of Dundee in 1881, and he was afterwards
concerned, as a member of the Scottish Universities
Commission, in establishing the connection of that

College with the University of St. Andrews. He
was appointed by the Duke of Devonshire to a
governorship of University College, Liverpool, a

position particularly gratifying to him as a member

of a distinguished Liverpool family. He represented
the University of London on the Council of Firth

College, Sheffield, which has since risen to the dignity
of a university, and was of service with respect to its
science curriculum.

    In 1888 Roscoe acted as a member of an Execu-

tive Commission appointed to carry out the provisions
of the Scottish Universities Act. The Commission
succeeded in devising ordinances which in many
respects revolutionized the systems of the Scottish
Universities, and by providing new avenues to
degrees are destined, it may be hoped, to have an
important effect upon the character of scientific
education in Scotland.

    In 1890 he was appointed a member of a Com-
mittee along with Lord Playfair, Lord Kelvin, Pro-

                                                        167
  The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

 fessor Huxley, Mr. Mundella, Sir Norman Lockyer,
 and Dr. William Garnett, to advise the Commis-
 sioners of the 1851 Exhibition on the question of
 establishing scholarships to aid the development of
 scientific education in the manufacturing districts
 of the country.

    Roscoe remained a member of that body after it
 had presented its Report and had been entrusted with
 the duty of putting into operation the scheme which
 had been devised for the distribution and regulation
 of the scholarships. The character of these scholar-
 ships cannot be better described than in his own

 words :

    It was decided that these should be of a higher order than most

 of those existing ; in fact, that their functions should begin where
the ordinary educational curriculum ends, this system having been
adopted with excellent effect in the French Ecole Pratique des Hautes
Etudes. In other words, the scholarships were to be entirely con-
fined to research, and strict conditions were laid down as to the
capability of the candidate to carry out original investigation. The
scholarships were to be ^150 a year in value, tenable for two years,
and to be limited to those branches of science the knowledge of
which is specially important for our national industries. The Com-
missioners from time to time were to select a number of institutions

throughout the Empire in which high scientific instruction is given.
Each university or college was to have the power of nominating a
student to a scholarship on the condition that he exhibited a
capacity for advancing science or its applications ; these scholar-
ships, when awarded, were to be tenable in any university, either at
home or abroad, or other approved institutions. . . .

   The fact that a large number of the nominating institutions are
situated in the colonies, and that the scholars from these institutions

come to the mother-country to carry out their scientific work, must
exert an important influence in strengthening the relations between
different parts of the Empire. The value of this system is fully
appreciated by the authorities at home and abroad, and many are
the instances in which men of ability, who would otherwise have
been unable to follow a scientific career, or to assist the progress of

                                                       168
Royal Commission of 1851 Exhibition

our national industries, are now coming to the front in both respects.
It has been well remarked that
                                in the course of century, even
a
                               if,

                                                                         a

                                                                                                                        1
one Faraday should have been discovered, the sum spent would

have been amply repaid.

    The policy laid down by the original committee has
since been pursued without essential variation, and

what was at first regarded as an educational experi-
ment has proved itself by the test of time an entirely

successful undertaking, and one which has served as
a model for the institution of similar foundations, both

in this country and abroad.
    In recognition of the services rendered on this com-

mittee, Roscoe was elected, in 1891, a member of the

Royal Commission, and five years afterwards, in 896,
he became member of the Board of Management,
and at the same time succeeded Lord Playfair as
Chairman of the Scholarships' Committee.

   As Chairman, the control and direction of the Com-

mittee's work was very largely in his hands, and the
care he devoted to every detail of the scholarship
work undoubtedly contributed to the successful opera-
tion of the scheme.

   But there was something more to value (says Mr. Evelyn Shaw,

who contributes the above particulars) than the part he played
in the proceedings of the Committee. The charm and sympathy of

his personality were felt by so many scholars who had occasion to

consult him upon their work, and who often afterwards remembered

and were grateful for some kind and helpful advice. He never
failed to watch with interest the careers of past scholars, as he
regarded their record as the most convincing proof of the value of
the Commissioners' Endowment.

   In 1901 he consented, on the invitation of Lord
Elgin, the Chairman, to join the executive committee

                                                       169
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

of the trustees appointed to carry out the administra-
tion of Mr. Andrew Carnegie's munificent gift to the
Scottish Universities for the benefit of scientific

education ; and he assisted in the inauguration of a
system of Carnegie Scholarships and Fellowships for
the encouragement of original investigation, resem-
bling that of the Royal Commissioners of the 1851
Exhibition.

   Roscoe acted as chief examiner in chemistry of the
Science and Art Department in succession to the late
Sir Edward Frankland, but resigned the appointment
on his election to Parliament. He took a great
interest in the aims of the department, and worked
cordially with its administrative officers, especially in
the abolition of the old system of " payment on
results " for the elementary stage of science subjects,
and in remodelling organized science schools.

   The importance of properly housing the valuable
science collections at South Kensington was con-
stantly being pressed by him upon the Government.
In 1909 he accompanied a strong deputation, and
presented an influentially signed memorial to the
Board of Education, pleading for larger and better

accommodation for the unique and almost priceless
exhibits of historically important objects which the
museum possesses, some of which are absolutely

irreplaceable. He pointed out how valuable such a

collection was as an adjunct to the systematic teach-
ing of science and technology. Each model, or piece
of apparatus, or specimen of historic interest, was
selected to bring into prominence underlying prin-
ciples, or to illustrate various stages of industrial

                                                        170
  Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine

progress. In the temporary buildings in which the
collections were placed, there was not only no room
for the necessary expansion, but the objects were so
crowded together that proper arrangement and
inspection were impossible. What was needed was
a building adequate to the proper exhibition of the
present collection, and one worthy of British Science.
He pointed out that one consequence of storing the
collections in so haphazard and unsatisfactory a
manner was that persons possessing objects of interest
naturally felt indisposed to present them to the nation,
and some of these when offered had to be refused
through want of space. Land sufficient for the pur-
pose was in the hands of the Government, and the
Royal Commissioners for the 1851 Exhibition, so long
ago as 1878, offered to contribute ,100,000 towards
a building for the Science Museum. Roscoe's argu-
ments were strongly supported by other members of
the deputation, and Mr. Runciman, who was then at
the Board of Education, expressed himself as con-
vinced by their weight, and as wholly in sympathy

with the object of the speakers. A gratifying result

of this action is to be seen in the new buildings now
in course of erection.

    Roscoe's high appreciation of Pasteur's work as a
chemist was, we may presume, the immediate cause
of the great interest with which he had followed his
remarkable discoveries concerning the causes and
cure of chicken cholera, anthrax, and the silkworm

disease an interest quickened, no doubt, by the fact
that he had made the personal acquaintance of that
distinguished man as far back as the early 'sixties.

                                                               171
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

He had specially informed himself of the working
of the Institut Pasteur in Paris, and of the anti-

rabic treatment, and had borne his share in com-

bating the mischievous prejudices of those in this

country who sought to misrepresent the character and
objects of Pasteur's work. In 1886 he had used his

parliamentary influence to induce Mr. Chamberlain,

who was then President of the Local Government

Board, to appoint a Government Commission, con-

sisting of the late Lord Lister, Sir James Paget,
Professor Ray Lankester, and himself, with Sir

Victor Horsley as secretary, to inquire and report on

the efficacy of Pasteur's treatment of hydrophobia.

The Commission came to the conclusion, based upon

irrefragable proof, that this treatment had been the

means of saving a large number of lives that otherwise

would have been sacrificed to a dreadful and torturing

death. Their report induced Sir James Whitehead,
when Lord Mayor of London, to call a Mansion

House meeting for the purpose of raising a fund partly
to defray the cost of sending poor persons, who may

need treatment, to the Pasteur Institute in Paris, and

partly to repay some of our indebtedness to Pasteur

and his co-workers for having treated some two

hundred of our countrymen gratuitously. The Royal

Society requested Roscoe, with Sir James Paget and
Professor Lankester, to represent them at the Lord

Mayor's meeting, and they supported the action by a

formal letter from the President.    Roscoe seized the
opportunity of having to respond   for " Science " at a

Royal Academy banquet to direct further attention to
the subject, and he subsequently spoke in the House of
Commons of the great value of experiments on living

172
  Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine

animals in opposition to an amendment designed to
impede the working of the Vivisection Acts. By
memorials, popular lectures, and articles in the periodi-

cal press, he kept the subject continually before the
public eye. Nor were his colleagues less active in

instructing and forming public opinion. Their efforts
eventually resulted in the establishment of an institute
in London with aims similar to those of that in Paris.
Thanks to the munificent action of Lord Iveagh, it

has been housed and equipped not less worthily than
its sister foundation. The London Institute of Pre-
ventive Medicine now bears the honoured name of
Lord Lister, its first President.

    Roscoe was its Treasurer from 1891 to 1904 and
Chairman from 1904 to 1912, and again from 1914 to

the time of his death. The building has now been
completed at a cost of ,28,000, entirely paid out of

income, and there has been a gradual and consider-
able increase in the scientific staff and in the volume
of work done. The formation of the Medical Research

Committee was thought by Roscoe to affect the interests
of the Institute, and he considered that it might be
better to bring about a working arrangement between

the two bodies. He felt that the independent exist-
ence of two such schemes of research might lead to

rivalry rather than to co-operation, and that the
superior resources of the Government Committee
might operate to the disadvantage of the Institute.

It was also thought that the addition of the resources
of the Institute to those at the disposal of the Com-
mittee together with the union of the two scientific

staffs would prove a great advantage to each and
contribute largely to the success of both. Another

                                                        173
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

more practical point was that the amalgamation
scheme would remove from the Institute the burden-
some necessity of having to earn money by routine
diagnosis work in order to provide a sufficient income
to support the scientific work, and to permit of its
increase. This contemplated action gave rise to a

considerable difference of opinion. As a question of
policy it obviously admitted of two sides, and when

the matter came up for decision the preponderating
feeling was to let well alone and to allow the Institute
to continue to develop along independent lines.

                                                         174
               CHAPTER XII

DIGNITIES AND HONOURS THE DEUTSCHE REVUE
        GERMANY AND ENGLAND WORLD SUPREMACY OR
         WAR

ROSCOE'S services to science and to the cause of

education were widely recognized. He was an

honorary graduate of many universities at home and

abroad, and an honorary or corresponding member

of many foreign scientific societies. He was a

D.C.L. of Oxford; and LL.D. of Cambridge (1883),

Dublin (1878), Glasgow (1901), and Montreal (1884) ;
and D.Sc. of Aberdeen, Liverpool, and Victoria.

On the occasion of the eighth jubilee of the founda-

tion of Heidelberg University he was made an

honorary M.D.

He served as a member of the jury for chemical

products of the English section of the French

Exhibition of 1878, and was made an officer of the

Legion of Honour, and in 1889 a corresponding
member of the French Institute of the Academy of

Sciences.  He was an honorary member of the

American Philosophical Society of Philadelphia and
of the New York Academy of Sciences ; of the
Chemical Society of Berlin ; of the Bunsen Gesell-

schaft, of the Verein fur Naturwissenschaft of Bruns-

               175
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

wick, and of the Physikalische Verein of Frankfort ;
a corresponding member of the Bavarian Academy
of Sciences of Munich, of the Royal Society of
Sciences of Gottingen, of the Royal Accad. Lincei
of Rome, and of the Academy of Natural Science of
Catania; a member of the Leop. Carol. Akad. of
Halle, and of the Physiogr. Sallsk of Lund. He was
an honorary member of the Royal Irish Academy,
and of the Literary and Philosophical Society of
Manchester. In 1912 the Franklin Institute awarded
him the Elliott Cresson Gold Medal.

   He was sworn of the Privy Council in 1909 an

honour which he accepted not only as a personal
distinction but as a recognition of the claims of
Science.

   But of all the distinctions and marks of appreciation
he received in the course of his long and busy life,

none afforded him a truer or more heart-felt gratifica-
tion than the action taken by his old pupils in cele-
brating the fiftieth anniversary of the date March 25,
1854 on which he took his Heidelberg degree. The
warmth and cordiality with which the idea of com-

memorating his jubilee was received, not only by his
former students but by every teaching institution,
academic body, and scientific society with which he

was or had been connected, was a striking testimony

to the regard and esteem in which he was universally
held. The University of Heidelberg renewed its
diploma of Doctor Philosophise Naturalis, and accom-
panied it by an address from the Grand Duke of
Baden, Rector of the University, the Pro- Rector,
Senior Dean, and the other professors of the Philo-

sophical Faculty. Addresses were also sent by

                                                       176
               Dignities and Honours

 University College, London, the Victoria University,
 and the Universities of London, Liverpool, Birming-
 ham, Wales, Scotland, Montreal, Melbourne, New

 Zealand, and Tokyo ; King's College, London, the
 Yorkshire College, and the University Colleges of
 Sheffield, Newcastle, and Dundee ; the Royal and
 Chemical Societies, the Society of Chemical Industry,
 British Association, the Lister and Pasteur Institutes,
 and a number of the academies and scientific societies
 of Germany, Italy, Holland, and America. In addi-
 tion a large number of congratulatory letters and
 messages were received from distinguished friends,

chemists, and physicists throughout Europe, America,
and the British Dominions beyond the Seas.

    The celebration was held on April 22, 1904, in
the beautiful Whitworth Hall of the Victoria Uni-
versity in the presence of a large and enthusiastic
gathering of former students and colleagues, and of
friends who had journeyed to Manchester to present

addresses.

   Of all these addresses, the one, he says in his auto-

biography, that touched him most nearly was that

from his former pupils. It ran as follows :

    We, the undersigned, all of whom have the honour to number
ourselves among your pupils, desire on the occasion of the celebra-
tion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the date of your graduation as a
Doctor of Philosophy of the University of Heidelberg to offer you
our hearty congratulations, and to express our pleasure that you are
able to be with us in health and strength to receive this testimony of
our gratitude and esteem.

   The half-century which has elapsed since the day of your Doctor
promotion summa-cum-laude, has witnessed an extraordinary develop-
ment in that branch of natural knowledge to which you have
particularly devoted yourself. We recall with pride in how large a
measure your own labours have contributed to that growth by your

                                                  177 N
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

work as an original investigator, by your literary productions, by
your remarkable and almost unexampled success as a teacher, by
the influence you have exerted in the organization and direction of
societies concerned with Science, by your unceasing and well-
directed efforts to secure for Science its due position in the scheme
of National Education and the fuller recognition of its relations to

the well-being of civilized communities. It was your good fortune

at the outset of your career to come under the influence of illus-
trious chemical philosophers Graham, Williamson, Bunsen. Your
good fortune has been our great gain. You have not only worthily
upheld the traditions associated with such names, but you have
inspired others by your example. Your influence is to be seen in
the creation of the great School of Chemistry in which you have
laboured for thirty years, and in which you taught hundreds of
pupils ; it is equally felt in the many similar places throughout this
kingdom which are modelled upon the lines you indicated, and
which are to-day actuated by your method and example.

   We gratefully recall the obligations that we are under to you as
our teacher, and we cherish the memory of the signal services you
have rendered to the Institution of which we are proud to be
members. You came to it in the days of its precarious infancy, you
assisted to rear it into a vigorous youth, sharing its aspirations, and
stimulating its endeavours ; you behold it now of age, and entering
upon a great career.

    That you should have lived to see and enjoy this fruition of your
labours is a matter of special gratification to us, as it must be to you.
Blessed with continuing health and happiness may you long be
spared to witness its growth in prosperity and usefulness.

   To this address he replied :

   Of all gratifying and far too flattering addresses which I am

to-day receiving, none come so near my heart as that signed by
three hundred of my former students.

   What can a teacher value more than the sympathy and good
opinion of his pupils, and this you have given me in full measure.

  IIf succeeded in forming a School of Chemistry at Owens, it was
Ibecause, in the first place, learnt from Bunsen how the founda-

tions of such a school must be laid ; secondly, because I fortunately
Isecured the co-operation in the task of good men and true, like

Schorlemmer and Dittmar ; and last but not least because was

                                                        178
               The Deutsche Revue

surrounded by an ever-increasing band of young men imbued with
the true scientific spirit, able and anxious to devote themselves to
the study and to the advancement of their science.

   Well aware of my own deficiencies, and recognizing the gulf

Iwhich lies between promise and performance, yield to none in the
Ipersonal interest which take in your progress and welfare, and in
Ithe affectionate remembrance in which hold each and all of you.

Many, many thanks.

   In his later years, and when the physical disabilities
of age kept him more and more indoors, Roscoe

occupied himself in contributing short articles to the

Deutsche Revue on academic or educational sub-

jects. Thus in his first article he recalls his Heidel-

berg experiences, and dwells upon his friendly

relations with German men of science, dating from

the early 'fifties of the last century. In a second
article he describes the rise of the English Univer-

sities ancient and modern their characteristics and

the differences in constitution and methods between

them and the German Universities. In 1908 an
article entitled " An English Man of Science on the

Friendship of the German Emperor for England and

upon the relations of England and Germany," indi-

cates a certain feeling of anxiety at the growing unrest

he perceives in reference to Germany's intentions in

so rapidly increasing the strength of her fleet. He
follows this up with a longer article on " The Peace
Mission of the Sciences," in which he expands a

favourite theme to which, to our grief, circumstances

have now   given the    lie direct.  In   q"uiAck   succession
he writes   letters to   the editor                few words
                                      on

concerning England and Germany"; "International
               "       " No                Europe "
Understanding       ;        more  War in            in

which he strives to remove misapprehension, and to

                             179
 The Right Hon, Sir Henry E. Roscoe

make clear to German readers that there is no wide-
spread feeling of animosity in this country towards
the Fatherland.

   The following letter to the writer refers to this

matter :

.... . . Has Anschiitz sent you his pamphlet on Couper ? It is
very interesting, and places C. on a level with Kekule.  I am
Ilanguishing for some scientific converse.
Iyou at present. But should like to !                 fear no chance of seeing

IAs a Zeitvertreib have written a political diatribe entitled " Es
soil in Europa kein mehr Krieg seyn " for the Deutsche Revue.

The Powers will tremble when they read it which they won't !
                                                      Ior rather, fancy, his
But the   editor  "isDpelaeraessetd    and calls  me
daughter  does                       Sir Henry "
                                                  !

  Under the title of " King Edward VII the Peace-

maker" he contributed to the same review a short

article written a few weeks after the King's death, in
which he dilated on his high personal qualities, his
merits as a ruler, and his love of order and peace.
His last communication on " Germany and England "
the editor declined to print, but it was published in

Nord und Sud, an old-established and well-known

fortnightly review of good repute. The article is so
characteristic of the good sense and right feeling of
its author that it is well worthy of reproduction,

apart from its interest in relation to the one supreme
topic of the time.

                                    GERMANY AND ENGLAND.

   I write neither from the point of view of a diplomatist nor of a

politician, but simply as a scientific man who, being a Menschen-
freund and Deutsch-gesinnt and anxious to see differences between
the nations as between individuals disappear, asks himself the
 questions, who are the people who are stirring up all this discord ;

                                                         1 80
Germany and England

what do they mean ; what do they want ; what is their power ? We

in England call these men Jingoes. In Germany, I believe, they are

termed Pan-Germans or All-Deutschen. In France they are
" Revanchistes," and in Italy " Irredentisti."

   What they mean is clear enough; they mean mischief. What
they want is not so plain, for they do not tell us in simple lan-

Iguage ; indeed, doubt whether they know themselves. That their

language, whether spoken or written, is more or less dangerous to
the peace of the world everybody admits. What is their power, and

how far that danger goes, is another question. Nobody believes

that their wish to set the nations by the ears is shared by the mass

of mankind. The general good sense and honesty of the people of
every nationality is a strong bulwark against Chauvinism. And if
the true opinion of the British and of the German peoples could be

obtained who can doubt that it would be in favour of peace and

good feeling rather than of hostility and war ? But to err is human,

and to be misled is easy, so that it behoves those who love progress

and hate all that opposes progress to use all efforts to denounce and

destroy Chauvinism in every country and in every form. In England
Jingoism has practically no power. In Parliament certainly none

witness the speeches lately delivered in both Houses not one note

of ill-feeling towards Germany was heard. On the contrary, the

warmest expressions of appreciation of goodwill and friendship fell
from the lips not only of the members of the present Government in
Lords and Commons, but also from the leaders of the Opposition in

both Houses, and the wish for an understanding with Germany was

universal and emphatic.

In the British Press, with a few dishonourable and unimportant

exceptions, the same thing may truthfully be said. The working

classes have never been infected by anti-Germanism.  Our com-

mercial men, who are brought into intimate trading relations with

the Germans, desire an Anglo-German understanding beyond all

other aspirations in the sphere of foreign policy.

To believe that England now wishes, or is likely ever to wish, to

go to war with Germany is a delusion in which only the insane can
indulge. What on earth, may well be asked, can England gain by
commencing war with Germany ? Suppose, for instance, the British
fleet could bombard and destroy Hamburg ; in what way would such

an act of vandalism benefit us ? In no possible way ; on the con-

trary, we should be cutting our own throats, for is not Hamburg one
of our best customers, merely to look at the transaction from a
monetary point of view ?

                         181
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

Let me pull down another idol. It has been said, and is still

believed by many persons who ought to know better, that England
is jealous of the rising, or risen, world-wide trade of Germany, and

is determined to stop it in defence of her own. That such a view

has been expressed by certain of my countrymen                               if is,  of course, a fact.

But surely this  is     totally false view. Imagine, you can, Germany
                     a

reduced to the condition of half century ago, poor, disunited, with
                                                        a

little or no world-wide trade. Would English commerce be more

flourishing than when, as now, Germany rich, united, and trading
                                                                  is

the wide world over? Certainly not. The richer our neighbours

and competitors become the more will our own trade benefit. A

man with sixpence in his pocket                              not much good as buyer.
it a
                                      a

                                      is
                                         a
                                                      a is
                                                                            it !

                                                     I
                                                                                                         a
With handful of gold he                                 welcome customer What the trade

between the two countries was worth fifty years ago don't know,

but must have been mere fraction of what now amounts to,

namely, over 100 millions sterling year.
   Is there any other point of view from which the notion that Eng-

land can personally gain by making war on Germany can be urged                                                     ??

do not know of one, and perhaps our Jingoes may even admit
I

                     Is
                            it

                                                     :
Ifthis. But say they "                                  we do not declare war Germany    is is              certain

to do so.        not better for us to choose our own time and

occasion rather than allow our enemy to take the step when the

conditions are most favourable to them This conclusion sound
                                                        if
                                                                    ?
                                                                          a
provided the premises are also sound. Does Germany intend to

declare war or so to act as to bring about war with this country

What the evidence                                       Certainly we are to accept the statements
is
    is

                                      ?
of the All-Deutschen party as representing the opinion of the nation

at large there are good grounds for believing that war inevitable.                   is

But surely every one who knows anything of Germany and German

opinion certain that the All-Deutschen have even less power to

bring about war than our own Jingoes have, and that their utterancesa
represent public opinion in Germany to less extent than those of
our Jingoes represent the English opinion. The debates in the
Reichstag, the speeches of your Ministers, the expressions in the

more responsible organs of the                          German     Press,    and the     outspoken
opinion of the German working                           classes,  all tell   the same    tale, " We

do not want war."

Still there remains in Germany strong and widespread feeling of
is
                                  a

                                           ?
                                                     a

                                                          a
                                                                                              is

                                                                                                                     ? is
animosity not to use harsher term towards England. Upon

what this feeling based What has England done, doing, or
going to do that should create such feeling of mistrust and enmity

                                                        182
               Germany and England

I have never been able to answer this question, and I believe it

arises out of a misunderstanding and misconception ; a sort of
revival of the old French cry of " Perfide Albion" Can -these All-

Germans point to any one of the many Anglo-German agreements

which have been arrived at from the time when Germany began to

expand down to the present moment which has not given Germany

every opportunity to take her place in the sun ?

   Let me come to the point. Has England interfered with German

trade ? If she has, she has failed egregiously, for in spite of Eng-

land's supposed efforts German trade has increased and is increasing

by leaps and bounds. But what signs of interference has England

shown ? Can your Pan-Germans point to a single instance ? It is

easy to write   fiery articles,  oauntdintothaettrsiubnutebecilal-ufeseelinBgritaoirnje"alrouulesys,    to
say Germany    cannot come                                                                            the

waves," to assert that Englishmen dislike and despise the Germans,
and that we are jealous of German prosperity. This is not only

foolish and unfriendly talk, but it is false from beginning to end.

Instead of endeavouring to limit German trade our policy of the

open door has had the effect of expanding it enormously. All our

ports at home and in foreign waters, all our offices, shops, and

industries are open, and educated Germans have taken great advan-

tage of our policy both to their own and to our immense benefit.

Wherever British industry or commerce flourishes there German

merchants or manufacturers are found, and there they remain. In

our own great cities, in those of our oversea dominions, as well as in

our most distant settlements, the ubiquitous German flourishes, and

is a welcome strength to the community. What more can England

do to assist German trade and industry than she has done and is

doing? How can it with any truth be said that England stops
Germany from coming out into the sun ? " Yes," these Pan-
Germans may say, " we grant that you are very kind, and give us

a helping hand. That  a is,      however, not good enough for Germany.

We must stand alone. We insist upon having Colonial Empire,
                                            if
an Oversea Dominion,             Deutschland iiber See, as you have in
                                               a
Australasia, Canada, and South Africa."                                      (

Well, these views were those of the German nation instead of
a if
that of somewhat insignificant clique, and  Germany were to

determine that at all hazards this wish must be fulfilled, the question

would at once become of grave importance, because that would mean

certain war with Britain, and probably with the United States. And

for this reason England being long consolidated great Power Well
                                 a

                                    183
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

Machf), and having had the command of the sea, and her people
having the faculty of successful colonization, has, for the last four

hundred years at least, sent forth peaceful armies to annex and

dwell in the most fruitful and habitable but uncivilized parts ot
the world. To such an extent has this movement been successful

that nearly all the areas of land not already occupied by civilized
man, and capable of being made a permanent home by Europeans,

have been taken over by Englishmen or Americans, so that little
space of the kind is left for the young and aspiring German nation

to annex. Whether for good or for evil she has come too late for
this game of grab, unless, indeed, she is so rash as to try to take

land from those now in possession. This, of course, entails war,
and war the damage of which even if victorious on her side no
amount of land or gold could even in a small degree repay. As to
the truth of this statement, consult the Credit Bankers of Berlin,

and ask them what would be the condition of the Berlin Exchange
the day after war was declared between Germany and England. I,

for my part, do not believe that Germany or its people are gone

Imad, or likely to become so, and therefore do not believe that

Germany will ever try to wrest from England her Oversea

Dominions or to invade the New World with the millions of armed

men necessary to establish a Fatherland in the West.

   Much has lately been said about Germany being over-populated.
Her people increase by nearly one million souls yearly. " Some
outlet for these millions must be found," say the All-Deutsch. Is

this so clear ? The population of Germany is not nearly so dense
as that of our own country or that of Belgium, and in both these
countries the conditions of life are quite as favourable as those in
the Fatherland. Moreover, is it not true that to-day thousands of

workers from other lands are flocking to fill new posts created by
the ever-increasing demand for labour in the German industries ?

   No ! the high and glorious aim and true function of the German
nation is not to try to conquer by the " mailed fist " either on land

or sea, but to show how the world may be dominated by proving to

mankind the grand results which accrue to civilization when a

nation has both the power and the determination to carry out its

high ideals. No other nation in either the Old or the New World

possesses these ideals in such high degree, and
                        is                       therefore, so fully
                                                                    is,

                                                                                  a
able and so well fitted to take the lead in this new departure as the

German.                 played out. It has become disgraceful
   The old game of war
           World Supremacy or War

instead of a glorious one in the eyes of twentieth-century men. We
look to Germany to show how a modern state is to be carried on
for the greatest good of its own people so as to become an example
to the rest. Take the opinions of your great men of Science men
of the stamp of Helmholtz men who looked forward instead of
backwards, and be guided by them. Ask them in what is national
glory to consist in the coming centuries. Do not pin your faith on
those who, like Treitschke, argue that because war has been, it must
continue to be, men who preach the false doctrine that its influence
is a purifying one, and a saving grace. These views are those of the
past. They do not represent the present, still less the future
opinion of mankind.

   The time is now ripe, for has not Dr. von Bethmann-Hollweg
said on the part of the German people that the national slate is

clean ? It will be the greatest wickedness and folly of both nations
if this appeal to the better feelings of the peoples is not welcomed

and acted upon.
   Let Germany pursue her ideals, and her actions will rule the

world, because those ideals and actions make for peace and progress.

   That there was a section and a not inconsiderable
section of the German public to whom this appeal
was not in vain was manifested by the publication
in Stuttgart of a remarkable article on " World
Supremacy or War," written under the nom-de-plume
of " Nostradamus." This so impressed Roscoe that
he translated it for the British-German Friendship
Society a society of influential persons who strove
to stem the rising tide which broke down all barriers
on that fateful day of August 1914. The purport of
the article was to point out that the true policy
of Germany was to seek an alliance with England.
The writer admitted that we were the first to offer the

hand of friendship, but that under Billow's regime it
was declined. He further shows it was this circum-

stance that led England to seek alliances elsewhere
an action that was not only natural but essential to

                                                        185
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

our well-being, and wholly due to the short-sighted
policy of Germany. The pamphlet is too long to be
quoted in full, but a few extracts, read in the light of
what is happening, may be of interest.

WORLD SUPREMACY OR WAR.

. . . We have often enough declared that we never mean to attack

England. Does any one imagine that a prudent nation will trust

to such words when it comes to a question for her of to be or not

to be ? What is it those Britons see who have been following with

interest for twenty years the events which have taken place in our

country? A steady and continuous increase of armaments; a

fleet born and growing each year more and more rapidly ; a ruler

who is restlessly active now in the saddle, now on the captain's

bridge ; his palace only used for sleeping. Wherever the Kaiser

goes his forces are in the forefront.  Exercises, manoeuvres,

mobilization of the fleet, war games, conferences, and speeches
quickly follow one another. His speeches refer oftener than

needful to the grip of the sword, and at the same time he sedulously

endeavours to negotiate personally with his neighbouring States.

Such things as the Kruger telegram and the expedition to Tangiers

look like froth, but they really hide personal wishes and inclinations.

Thus do the English see us. What can they, what must they think

of it all ? We are grown to be neighbours and yet we arm and arm.

Our trade is protected, and for offensive purposes a fleet will arouse

little sympathy. Have not both Holland and Belgium a large

trade and yet no one thinks of wresting it from them.

Against what is Germany arming if not against England's com-

mand of the sea ? Must not every Englishman think so ? Has not

their mistrust been fostered by our policy, by the utterances of our

men of mark, by the opinions of our Press, and last but not least by

the propaganda of our Navy League ?

How can a clear-headed pe6ple like the English entertain friendly

feelings for us in view of these evident proofs of our mistrust ? We

have driven England into the Double Alliance. "He who is not

with me is against me." Should we not do exactly the same ? We

carry on a sentimental policy, play the injured party, whilst sus-

picion prevents us from being open-minded.
   The German Empire ought therefore only to have a fleet sufficient

for her real needs, able to defend her coasts, to act as maritime

1 86
           World Supremacy or War

police in the areas of smaller States, and to perform convoy duty for

our troop-ships to our colonies. A larger fleet is in fact either a

luxury or it is directed against England. Such logic is inexorable.
For our centre of gravity otherwise than is the case with England

    lies at home. We are not dependent on the importation of food-
stuffs ; the 5 per cent, of what is not grown on our own soil must
be sacrificed in war.

    As to our commerce, there will be no dispute. In the countries
where our goods are sold the German merchant is not only a neces-
sity but valued as an indispensable friend and educator. The
merchant who is not able to create such a position is not worth
having battleships near him to back up his weaknesses. Only the
excellence and tastefulness of the wares he has to sell and the tact
and ingenuity of the seller, coupled with a full knowledge of local
requirements, can ensure the prosperity of our commerce; never
the mailed fist ! This cannot be repeated too often or too

emphatically.

   Up to now the agreement with France and Russia has guaranteed
England's safety. Now England sees that France, relying on the
military convention with her two friends, is working seriously for
war. She knows that in Russia the voice for war against Germany
is increasing. Such a war would weaken England's Navy ; it would
throw a hundred and fifty thousand Englishmen on the battlefield ; I
it would mean heavy demands on the country's finance and her

colonies might make threatening movements against her sovereignty.
She would also lose her best buyer and seller. Europe's pre-
dominance would be imperilled !

    These are the weighty reasons why the English Government are
trying even at the eleventh hour to prevent this war.

    Many object that the psychological moment will not arrive for this
war. Internal conditions will tend to promote it. Never have the
opportunities been so favourable for the French and Russians to
cross swords with us, and to endeavour to annihilate our position as
a leading Power of the Continent.

   France sees her population going down year by year. In the same

ratio the prospect is dwindling for France to regain Alsace Lorraine
and thereby increase of dominion, population, and prestige. The
hatred of the conqueror continues to blaze ; they have long since lost
all respect for us, and they are longing to measure their strength with

                  It has thrown upwards of five millions .

                                                        187
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

ours. Newspapers and leaflets stir up the flame and preach ceterum

censeo.

   The Republic undoubtedly binds the people together more closely,
and will provide more means and men for their armaments than

is the case with us. And the call will not be in vain, neither are
Alliances nor Military Conventions. Russia's Army and England's

fleet, plus 150,000 men, are guaranteed to France. Italy is tied
up in Tripoli, the North Sea Canal is unusable, a third of the

German voters have shown themselves as enemies of the State,

and party disputes have demoralized the nation. When will such

a concatenation be repeated?

And what is the outlook for Germany ?                         A
Do not let us fear to look the matter straight in the face.

war on three sides. Our Navy against three Navies, and a triple

superiority. Victory at sea is impossible. However much we

may harm our opponents we are certain to lose many colonies.

On the mainland righting on two flanks. Of course we cannot

deny it and must look at the future coolly. It is idle to waste words

about such a war; let us leave talk to others. Let us look at a

favourable solution : the defeat of both opponents . What would
peace bring us ? Annexation of more French or Russian posses-
sions ? No rational being could think of such a poisoned gift.

   And what about overseas and colonies ? In foreign parts we shall

have nothing more to say, for our mercantile and naval fleet will be

almost entirely destroyed. And as for money indemnity, even in

case we conquered our opponents we cannot hope for heavy terms.

We shall be glad after this blood-letting to embrace peace and to

receive a portion of our war expenses. We should have to fight

hard, and only through rivers of blood and by straining every nerve

can we hope to keep our Empire intact. In the 1870 war against

the French Empire in nearly every case our victories were bought

with superior losses. And how dear these victories cost us !

But not numbers, nor weapons, nor careful preparations in times of

peace are going to conquer in the war of the future. Esprit alone

will turn the scale, and to   quote    the words  of Frederick the Great,
" The esprit of an army lies  in its  officers."  Those officers will have

the best influence on their men who have the most hardened

physique and who are trained each one according to his particular

bent, and are able to do without comforts and have the natural gift

of comradeship with the common soldier combined with strict dis-

cipline. They must evoke the soldiers' esteem and dependence and

                                      188
            World Supremacy or War

the blind trust which the unselfish care of their men will produce.

This can be brought about only by placing the well-being of the

troops in the forefront, and without the slightest consideration on

the officers' part for their own advantage, unselfishly sinking their

personality, rising to every situation with courage, and bracing up

every weakling or coward under their care by their example. That

corps which possesses these qualities to the fullest extent will carry

victory with their colours, and only such a set of officers can be our

salvation.

Do not let us underestimate our opponents.

On the west we have the French Army with a lurking desire for

revenge, its material intelligent and full of soldierly qualities. The

sons of the Republic will fight with the same courage they did in

the 1870-1871 campaign but under better generalship. The French

have learnt a great deal ; may we not admit this to-day ?

And how is it with us ?

   An admission must be made at a critical moment. That moment
has arrived. In the course of time the sober and earnest speech

and thought of the old Prussians has become remote. Let us

beware of overconfidence in ourselves. We have a forty years'

peace behind us, which is not very good for the German Army.

So much for us.

And what will victory bring us ?

The loss of our Navy and our Colonies, and our own destruction

only avoided by a sea of blood. What will happen when the people

return home, awakened as to their own character and chastened by

a fruitless fight? We speak of a favourable result. And if this
Ifdoes not occur ?
                    Germany does not win in the next war shall we

be bled    to death ? Bismarck said this, and let us admit it openly  :
           war we have nothing to gain and everything to lose."
" In this

He who brings about this war and who does not try to obviate

the danger is perpetrating the greatest outrage on the German

nation. He is endangering the creation of Bismarck and his King;

he is playing with loaded dice.

   Here was a voice crying in the wilderness a
prophet without honour in his own country ! But
how true are his words !

                                 189
                 CHAPTER XIII

     HOME LIFE LADY ROSCOE WOODCOTE LODGE

                 PERSONAL CHARACTERISTICS DEATH

IN 1863 Roscoe married the lady whom he had first
met in his aunt Crompton's drawing-room in Hyde
Park Square Lucy, the youngest member of the

family of Edmund Potter, Esq., M.P. for Carlisle,

a well-known Manchester merchant and a friend and
co-worker of Bright and Cobden.

    Lady Roscoe was a strong and sincere character,
of wide sympathies and generous impulses, with a
rich fund of common sense, and a high standard of
duty and performance. She had many intellectual in-
terests and a cultivated taste ; was well read, a good
judge of literary work, and an assiduous collector of
old rare and beautiful prints. In the early days
of her married life, and at a time when she had
to work with wet collodion or to prepare her own
dry plates, she was recognized by experts as a
clever photographer, and obtained medals from
the Photographic Society for the technical ex-
cellence and artistic merit of her exhibits. She
was an admirable hostess, and all who have
had the privilege of partaking of her hospitality
cherish an unfading memory of her kindly manner,

                                                        190
                    Lady Roscoe

heV quiet dignity, and unfailing tact. Time dealt

tenderly with her ; the additional years brought an

added charm, a widened sympathy, and a larger

measure of gentleness and pity. With her healthful,

smiling face and beautiful white hair, her character-

istically simple dress and the rare lace she draped

about her head and shoulders, no woman was ever

more successful in the art of growing old gracefully.

She died in 1910.    Of this union it was said by one
who had the best    opportunities of judging: " Of the

forty-seven years of married life one who looked on

can say there never were two more of one heart and

mind." The one sorrow of their lives and it was

a profound sorrow, a grief that changed the whole

current of their aspirations was the death of their

only son when an undergraduate at Magdalen College,

Oxford, just as he was entering on manhood. He

was a . young man of great charm of manner, of high

ideals, and a strong sense of duty and responsibility,

and with the ambition to serve in a career of public

usefulness or in some position in which his well-

marked powers of literary expression might be turned
to account. Two daughters were also born of this
marriage, the elder of whom married Mr. Charles E.

Mallet, formerly M.P. for Plymouth and Under-

secretary for War in the last Liberal Government.

Nowhere did Roscoe appear to greater advantage

than in his home.    His domestic   life was  singularly
unclouded save for                            that failed
                    the one great  sorrow "

the bright promise of an early day." He had no

great anxieties and few cares only the passing

ones that attend the work of one who strives to

                    191
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

do with all his might whatsoever his hand findeth
to do. He was

Blessed with a temper whose unclouded ray
Can make to-morrow cheerful as to-day.

This happy condition of mind was, no doubt,

largely temperamental ; it was based upon a calm

and equable disposition that would have taken

Fortune's buffets and rewards with equal thanks.
That there were more rewards than buffets was due

less to Fortune than to himself, for he was the archi-

tect of his own career, and used his opportunities
wisely. It is true he started with advantages a

handsome presence, a well-knit, manly frame, a frank,

ingenuous manner, good social connections, and, after

his marriage, no anxieties as to the res angusta domi.
   He was fond of the society of his fellows, hospit-

ably disposed, and of a warm, genial nature. Indeed

he had a genius for friendship, and a boundless

capacity for sympathy and kindness instinctive,

spontaneous, impulsive the sort of sympathy where

action follows hard upon the heels of inclination, and

the kind of kindness which is doubled because it acts

quickly. Innumerable instances of his little name-

less, but not unremembered acts of kindness and of

love might be culled from a correspondence which
stretches over half a century. But one characteristic

action must suffice :

                       10 BRAMHAM GARDENS,

                                            November 25, 1893.
  I heard of you yesterday as having been out in a bath-chair
Ipoor man ! so came to two conclusions : (i) That you had been
Ivery ill. (2)

three hours
aTt hWatooydocuotew, eraenbdetters.aid,W"e   have just come  back from
                                                             was here."
                                            I wish Thorpe
" Why not ask him and his wife to stay here next week ? " said my

                       192
            Personal Characteristics

I Ibetter-half. So this now do, and hope you will go there : the

air is lovely : the house is warm. There is an old woman who can
cook and an old man who cannot. You could take one of your

own maids to wait, and there is everything ready beds and sitting-

rooms, bread and meat only no whisky.
I shall be delighted if you will both go there on Tuesday. There
Iis Judy the pony and its cart at your service, and
                                                     can order

a closed carriage to take you up.

   You must take care of yourself. This attack ought to be and will
be a warning to you not to work on as you have done. It is

Iserious, and am, with many friends, anxious you should draw in

your horns. Really your professional work is enough for one man,

and what a pile you put on to the top of this !

Let me know, if possible, to-morrow (Sunday) night whether you
Iwill go.   am sure you would enjoy yourselves, and I will let
E know so that all shall be ready.

   No man was more quick to recognize and to appre-

ciate merit and worthy motives. Of strong common

sense, perfectly sincere, frank and direct of speech,

of an integrity of purpose which was perfectly obvious

and which admitted of no unworthy compromise, he

was, as they say in the quaint forceful Lancashire

dialect he loved at times to recall as the speech of

his forerunners, his eminent grandfather included

"jannock" 1 to the backbone the very type we

associate with the national character. These marks

of his personality constituted the source of his
            A broad-minded man, who thought
influence.

spaciously and did things magnanimously, nature

intended him to be a leader. His example was

infectious, and nowhere was it more obvious than

at Owens College, where the success of his own

department was a constant stimulus to his colleagues.

   1 Anglice: "Fair, honest, straightforward, upright, genuine, square."
W" Lriagnhct'asshi"rEenGglloisshsaryD."ialect Dictionary." Cf. Nodal and Milner's

                                              193 o
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

Men valued his counsel because they trusted his

judgment.

   He knew his limitations as a man of science. He

was too honest and sincere to cherish any illusions as
to the position posterity would assign to him as a
leader in chemical inquiry. The profound respect,
amounting almost to reverence, he had for Faraday,
Joule, Bunsen, Helmholtz all men he learned to

know personally was based upon the knowledge
that they had reached intellectual heights to which
he could not climb. He had not the studious,
contemplative habit of his master Graham. Contact
with Williamson kindled no latent faculty for specu-
lation. The shibboleths of modern chemistry types,

bonds, linkages, chains, etc., etc., had hardly more
real meaning for him than they had for Bunsen,

to whom they were practically unintelligible. It
was characteristic of both that when, at Kekuld's

solicitation, they jointly attended the chemical con-
gress on nomenclature at Carlsruhe in 1860, when
Cannizzaro brought forward his memorable com-
munication concerning the rational basis of fixing
atomic and molecular weights, they should not
have recognized its significance. Of course they
were not singular in this respect. The revolution
did not come at once. Avogadro's hypothesis never
affected Bunsen's teaching ; some years were needed
before it reached Manchester, and there are still

survivals who never have been clear why water

should be HO one year and H 2O the next. Bunsen,

indeed, used to say that one new chemical fact, even
an unimportant one, accurately determined, was worth
a whole congress of discussion of matters of theory.

                                                        194
Personal Characteristics

The truth was Roscoe, in chemistry as in other

matters, was primarily a man of action : he was
essentially an " experimentarian philosopher," as
Hobbes sneeringly dubbed the whole of the Fellows

of the Royal Society. A fact absolutely ascertained

was a definite and permanent addition to knowledge ;

hypotheses and theories were transitory and mutable ;

they have their day and cease to be.

But it would be unjust and untrue to assume that

Roscoe set no value on theory : he fully recognized

that she was the handmaid of Science. He who

had so carefully studied Dalton's papers and followed
the workings of his mind in the light of a century's

experience, could not be unmindful of the worth of

a fruitful conception. Mendelejeffs generalization

when it was first promulgated at once attracted him,

and he followed     its startling verifications with the

greatest interest.   It was always a matter of grati-
fication that his
                    detection of the true relations of

vanadium to the other elements, just prior to the
announcement of the Law of Periodicity, should

have removed at least what would have been one

apparent exception to the universality of its truth.

   When Roscoe first settled in Manchester he lived

with his mother in the house which had been occupied

by his predecessor, the late Sir Edward Frankland.
On his marriage he moved to Victoria Park, and
subsequently, after the birth of his children, to a

larger residence which was built for him in the same

neighbourhood. It was a charming, well-arranged

house surrounded by a good-sized garden, and with
an excellent tennis lawn, to which his colleagues and

                                                        195
 The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

senior students were freely invited on half-holidays
during the summer months. In those days Roscoe
was an active player, his reach and length of stride
making him a formidable opponent. Both he and
 Lady Roscoe were fond of horses, and for some years
riding in company with her was his usual form of
outdoor exercise. Occasionally they would plan a
driving tour together, and considerable sections of
England and Wales were explored in this way.
Whilst his children were young his long vacations
were usually spent in the Lakes or in Scotland, or
at Mr. Edmund Potter's country seat, Camfield Place,
near Hatfield. Roscoe's long vacations usually meant
to him either a change of occupation, or the continu-
ance of a piece of literary work in new surroundings.
Many of his memoirs were, in fact, put together
during his vacations : it was only at such periods,
when, free from the routine of lecturing, labora-

tory superintendence and College committees, that
he could count upon the necessary freedom from
interruption to arrange the results of an inquiry.
The compilation of his smaller text -books was
usually done at such times. The large treatise
which he wrote with Schorlemmer, and which neces-

sarily needed ready access to a library rich in serial
publications, was mainly composed in Manchester.

At one period of his career he was a frequent

contributor to certain of the quarterly reviews, and
the early volumes of Nature contain occasional com-
munications from his pen. It was a point of honour
to translate any paper of Bunsen's for the Philo-

sophical Magazine.
   During the earlier portion of his Parliamentary

                                                       196
               Personal Characteristics

career he lived in Mrs. Potter's town house in
Queen's Gate, until he moved to Bramham Gardens,
South Kensington, which continued to be his London
house until a short time before his death.

    Although he always regarded his thirty years at
Owens as his chief work, the thirty years of his
London life were hardly less busy than the time he
spent in Manchester. The occupation might not be
so continuous, but it was certainly more multifarious.
Ten years of Parliamentary and active political life
had brought with them new activities and fresh
demands upon his time and energy, and except for
occasional periods of enforced idleness due to attacks
of gout the only constitutional weakness from which
he suffered, and which, as he used ruefully to observe,

he had done nothing to deserve he was always busy.
He had a serious attack of pneumonia in the winter
of 1902, which left him enfeebled for a time, but
eventually, after a summer in Miirren and Burgen-
stock and a winter in Algiers and Sicily, he seemed
to have completely shaken off its ill effects. Other-
wise his sound and vigorous constitution kept him
free from even passing ailments, and his fourscore
years were passed with few interruptions to his
activity from illness.

   Shortly after Roscoe took up his residence in
London he sought for some pied-a-terre in the
country for the sake of rest and change of scene, and
relief from the physical and mental strain of con-
tinuous life in town. In 1892 he was able to obtain
a delightful place on Lord Lovelace's property in
Surrey, some two dozen miles from London. It was
beautifully situated on the North Downs, between

                                                       197
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

Guildford and Dorking, amidst some of the loveliest
scenery in the South of England. He and Lady
Roscoe altered it to suit their requirements : he to
build a spacious study and to provide room for his

many books, and she to house her own collection

which was even more numerous, and to accommodate
the many works of art with which she had surrounded

herself. Roscoe has given a charming word-picture
in his autobiography of this ideal retreat, to which

as the years increased they became more and more

attached. Here they had

An elegant sufficiency, content,      books,

Retirement, rural quiet, friendship,
Ease and alternate labour.

Here Lady Roscoe could indulge to the full her
taste in gardening, and the cultivation of flowers and
flowering shrubs became her main outdoor occupa-
tion. She worked at her hobby with all the

enthusiasm and skill she had formerly displayed in

photography, and with equal success, for she made

Woodcote noted throughout the country-side for the
choiceness and richness of its floral wealth. One

who knew her well wrote of her :

   Flowers were named after her not so much as a criterion of her
horticultural knowledge, as a recognition of an almost lavish
generosity to the seedsmen and nursery gardeners, many of whom
were her personal friends.

   Attached to the property was a home-farm of some
seventy acres, which had been allowed to get into a
very backward state. Roscoe, with no previous
experience of farming, resolved to bring it into better
condition, and with the help of his Westmoreland

                                                       198
               Personal Characteristics

bailiff he gradually succeeded in doing so. The
business was a constant interest to him. He was
proud of his cart-horses which gained commendation
and prizes at the local shows ; of his well-bred Jersey
cows ; of his breed of Berkshire pigs the little pigs
were a constant source of amusement and of his
poultry. He records with much satisfaction that

"our" field (he always associated his bailiff with

these agricultural triumphs, as he always associated

his co-workers with his scientific achievements) "our
field of swedes on several occasions received the

first prize for the best show twenty miles round

Guildford." He went round his farm as he used

to go round his laboratory, and seemed to be on
the same genial terms with every animal on it as
he had been with his students. The affectionate

regard with which he used to contemplate an old

sow a most prolific creature by the way was a

source of much fun to his friends. If she did not

wholly succeed in "paying the rint," she doubtless
did her best towards and so merited and received

commendation.
   The hospitality of Woodcote a treasured memory

to numbers of Roscoe's friends. Few week-ends
passed without one or more of them sharing its
pleasures with him. Sometimes would be one of
his old associates in scientific work, or a political
acquaintance, or literary friend, or some distinguished
man of science from abroad. Indeed, few foreign
scientific men of any note passed through London
without finding their way to Roscoe's hospitable board.

   My father (says Miss Roscoe) delighted to bring foreigners, and

the more heterogeneous they were the more he was pleased.

                                                       199
a
          it,

                           is
                             it

                                                 I
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

remember one luncheon party of late years, consisting of a
Chinaman, a Japanese, a Czech, a German, and our three selves,
and the Occidentals were much the quietest of the party.

The visitors' book at Woodcote is a possession of no

little historical interest.

   In spite of their varied delights and restful charm

there were times when Roscoe was not wholly content

to breathe his native air in his own grounds : pigs,

poultry, and potatoes, as he said, occasionally lost
               and " the pathetic
their spell,  " would drive him     sadness of a garden
in autumn                          and Lady Roscoe to

a sunnier clime. Grasse, Italy, Egypt, Sicily, Algiers,
Tunis, Biskra were in turn visited by them during

different winters. Both he and his wife were fond of

foreign travel, and well-written books of travel were a

constant source of interest to her.

   And so the evening of their lives drew to its
close. Her end came swiftly and with scarce a
warning. His call was to come five years after-

wards, and was to be no less sudden and equally

unlocked for.

In the meantime came the War, with all its

horrors, griefs, and anxieties the crushed hopes

for the Peace he had struggled to preserve so far

as in him lay the unending enmity and bitterness

he foresaw between two nations that in his big

heart he had fondly linked together as the mightiest

humanizing forces of the world. It was a real

grief to him that he should have lived to see it
all. He frequently thought and spoke of his old

Heidelberg friends most of whom had passed

away and tried to realize their feeling of horror at

the spectacle which now confronts us. But his

               200
                   Woodcote Lodge

Germany was not the Germany of to-day, and
gradually and reluctantly he was compelled to
admit it. He still continued to occupy himself
with his customary pursuits so long as recurrent
attacks of his arch-enemy the gout would permit.
He read assiduously and took an active interest in
current topics the varying fortunes of the struggle*
politics, and scientific matters. He preserved, in
fact, all the interests of his life to the end. How
mentally alert and vigorous he remained will be
evident from the following letters :

                    WOODCOTE LODGE,
                             WEST HORSLEY, LEATHERHEAD,

                                                                              September 20, 1914.

  I have been laid up, more or less, since the war broke out with
Idyspepsia and gout, but now am recovering. What are you doing,,

and when can we meet which means when can you come here ?
IWhat do you say to Ostwald !
                                  enclose a cutting from the
IWestminster which please return, as am going to book it for
Ifuture reference.
                    agree with you that his swelled head is cracked.

What horrors ! One can scarcely believe that the German, as
Iyou and
          have known him, could have assumed such brutal

characteristics as we read of. Here we are peaceful enough, but

thirty young men, including Tom Huck, have gone from our

village  of 700 souls. Not bad !                           Pigs in
   Our
         crops are in hay poor; oats ditto; wheat fair.    up that
plenty,  Ibut no sale during the summer.
                                          find on totting

during ten years some very bad of farming my average loss has

IIbeen ^58 per annum, which don't think is unsatisfactory, as

get quite that amount of value beyond market price in having

good foodstuffs, and then pleasure in the processes and interest in

the varying conditions, and in making things go in a bad situation

for a farmer.

  The war is not bad for the only commercial undertaking I have

ever been connected with, for the demand for K, or rather NaCy, is

great owing to the disappearance of the Continental supply, and the

C. K. Co. are increasing the production to fill up the void.

                    201
The Right Hon. Sir Henry E. Roscoe

IThen  am again Chairman of the Lister, owing to B

declining to have anything to do with a proposal to join the

National Medical Research Committee which the Governing Body

suggest, and the question is to be settled in October by the vote of

the members of the Lister Institute. So I am still awake, though

lame and gouty.

Give my love to your wife, and let me hear from you. . . .

What is the name of the lame organic chemist who went from

Heidelberg to the Badische ?

                                   WOODCOTE LODGE,

                                         February 19, 1915.

. . . The Government have been bamboozled by a want of

... Iscientific acumen at the head a not unusual occurrence chez nous.
Thanks for sending me the report.  am at last downstairs, and
I Imore or less in my right mind as well. So feel better, but do
Inot suppose shall be able to go up to town and mix with the gay
world, as was my wont, until the March winds are over. A chill

with me means six weeks indoors, if not something more serious.

  IWhat need is to have some scientific gossip let loose at me,

but you in your southern retirement are no use at all in that

direction. Has your boat yet been requisitioned by the Admiralty,

and if so, do you go out in charge, having, of course, previously

joined the Navy?

We have here received notice to be prepared to drive off some-

where or other all our living animals, horses, cows, calves, pigs, and
I Ifowls !
Iscarcely know where come in. Also believe we are to

destroy all our crops, gathered or not gathered hay, potatoes, corn,
and garden vegetables so that the Hun may be an hungred!

IAlso propose to empty my large cellar of wine either down the

drain or into the duck-pond, like Sir Wilfrid Lawson.
I await with anxiety the result of the Rfoyal] Sfociety] election.
If I were a betting man I should back G               and M
                                                             , and

perhaps my R      ought to come in isth. What about the 104

necessarily rejected candidates ! Is it not absurd !

                                                                  WOODCOTE LODGE,

                                                                                       September 21, 1915.

   . . . My old friend Pattisson, our Treasurer at the Lister, is
dead, and most of our men have joined the war in one or other

capacity. So much lies on my shoulders, and though pretty broad,

Ithey are old, and feel the responsibility of chairmanship.

                                                       202
                             Death

   He attended the meeting of the Lister Institute
which has been referred to in one of his previous
letters. The result disappointed him, but as it was
not wholly unexpected, it but slightly, if at all,
disturbed his usual philosophic calm. The death
of his friend Riicker, the first Principal of the London

University, a man whom he greatly respected and
admired, which occurred on November ist, was a
far more serious blow, and affected him greatly.

   He had retired to rest at his customary hour, in
his usual serene and happy condition of mind and

health, after spending a couple of hours in his
daughter's society in the drawing-room reading or
amusing himself, as was his wont, on the pianola
with one of Beethoven's sonatas or some other

classical piece. He had been thinking of his

approaching birthday, and had suggested a little
gathering of a chosen few of his old students
whom he knew would be glad to celebrate it with

him. But this was not to be. Diis aliter visum.

Shortly after daybreak on the morning of December
1 8, 1915, he was seized with an attack of angina
pectoris, and passed away with scarcely a struggle.
With

                    No cold gradations of decay,

                         Death broke at once the vital chain,

                    And freed his soul the nearest way.

   What was mortal of him was laid to rest in
Brookwood Cemetery in the grave which held the
cherished partner of his life.

                                                        203
                               INDEX

Absorption of hydrochloric acid           Clothworkers' Company of Lon-
   and ammonia in water, 121                 don, 57, 75, 88

Agassiz, Louis, 116                       Colonna, Vittoria, her life, by
Alais meteorite, 132                          Maria Roscoe, 16
Allerton Hall, 6
                                          Columbium trichloride, 181
Arsenic-eating in Styria, 132             Conversation Club, Leeds, 55
Atomic weights, Dalton's first            Crompton, Mr. Justice, 20

   table of, 132                          Darwin, Sir George, 136
                                          Darwin, Horace, 121
Baines, Sir Edward, 6i> 73     of         Debus, Dr. Heinrich, 142
Bakerian Lectures, 114                    Delafontaine, Philippe, 131
Balmain, William H., 17                   Deutsche Revue, 179
                                          Devonshire, Duke of, 44, 61, 81, 82
Barnes, Rev. Dr., 36                      Dittmar, Wilhelm, 27-35, 121
Baxendell, Joseph, 114                    Draper (of New York), 1 10

Bessemer process, application             Eclipse expedition to Sicily, 134
                                          Enfield, Dr. William, 15
   spectroscope to, 133                   Ethyl perchlorate, 122
Briihl, Professor, 140                    Eton College, 165
Bryce, Lord, 43
Bunsen, R. W., his characteristics,

24,26

Burning bush, 157

Carbon dioxide in sea air, 115       Fairbairn, Sir Andrew, 55
Carnegie, Mr. Andrew, 109            Fairfax, Henry ^ 46
Carnegie Scholarships and Fellow-    Fairfax, Lord, 46
                                     Faulkner, George, 29
   ships, 169                        Firth College, Sheffield, 167
Cavendish, Lord Frederick, 55, 57,   Forster, W. E., 61, 66, 82
                                     Frankland, Sir Edward, 128
    61, 81
                                     Germany and England, 180
Chemical action of light, no         Gibson, John, sculptor, 6
                                     Goldsmid, Sir Julian, 162
" Chemistry Primer," 139
Chorley, Henry, his appreciation

   of Henry Roscoe, 14
Clarke, William, 4, 6

                                     204
                                      Index

Gott, Rev. Dr., Bishop of Truro,            Miall, Prof. Louis C., his appoint-
                                               ment to Yorkshire College, 42
     73
                                            Morley, Viscount, of Blackburn,
Graham, Thomas, his character-
   istics as a lecturer, 19                      109

Green, Prof. A. H., 59                      "New View of Dalton's Atomic
Greenwood, Principal, 34, 44, 48,              Theory," 141

    So                                      Nussey, Arthur, plan for a Techni-
                                               cal Institution for Leeds, 54
Guthrie, Dr. Frederick, 35
                                            Nussey, George Henry, his plan
Harden, Dr., 36, 141, 189                     for a Technical Institution for
                                               Leeds and District, 54
Heaton, Dr. J. D., 55, 57, 83, 86
Heddle, Prof essor (of St. Andrews),       Nussey, Thomas, 53

    126, 127                               Owens College, its origin, 28 ; its
                                               foundation, 30 ; its first pro-
Hey wood, James, F.R.S., 47                    fessors, 31 ; its location, 31 ; its
Heywood, Joseph, 101, 126                      growth, 32 ; its extension, 41 ;
                                               new constitution, 42 ; its first
Irving, Washington, his apprecia-             attempt to include women, 43 ;
   tion of William Roscoe, 12                  erection of new buildings, 44 ;
                                              new chemical laboratories, 44
"JevJoohnns,  Stanley, 20  the  Rise  of
              Dalton and                   Owens, John, 28, 29
                                           Owens, Owen, 28
   Modern Chemistry," 141
Jones, H. L., his plan for Univer-         Pankhurst, Dr. Richard Marsden,

sity of Manchester, 47                        9i
                                           Perchloric acid and its hydrates,
Joule, James P., 37
                                               122
Lead and thallium chlorides,
                                           in" Philippium," 131
vapour densities of, 131
                                           Photochemical induction,
Leeds Educational Council,       55        Photometric observations at Para,
" Lessons in Elementary         Chem-
                                              115 ; near Lisbon, 120
   istry," 138                             Playfair, Lord, 62 ; his address on
Lister Institute of Preventive
                                              technical education, 63, et seq.
   Medicine, 171                           Pulling, Prof. F. S., his appoint-
Liveing, Dr., first laboratory in
                                              ment to the Yorkshire College,
   Cambridge, 23
Lunt, Dr. Joseph, 139, 158

Lupton, Francis, 75

M'Creery, John, 6                              74
Manchester University, early
                                           Reform Bills, 1831-1832, drafted by
   attempts to found, 45                      Henry Roscoe, 13
Marshall, Prof. John, his appoint-
                                           Reid, Sir Wemyss, his support of
  ment to the Yorkshire College,              the Yorkshire College, 68, 141

   74                                      Ripon, Lord, 61, 66, 80, 82

                                      205
                   Index

Roscoe, Henry, his birth, 12 ; his        101 ; his portraits by Burgess

characteristics, 12 ; becomes a           and Herkomer, 103 ; address by

   barrister, 13 ; his legal works,       students, 103 ; as an investi-
   13 ; drafts Reform Bills of
                                          gator, no ; gives his first
  1831-1832 ; his "Life of William
  Roscoe," 13 ; married Maria             Bakerian Lecture, 114; studies

   Fletcher, 15 ; becomes Judge           the absorption of hydrochloric
   of the Court of Passage, 14 ;          acid and ammonia in water,
   his death, 14 ; appreciation of
  him by Henry Chorley, 14                121 ; perchloric acid and its
Roscoe, Henry Enfield, his birth,         hydrates, 122 ; vanadium and
                                          its compounds, 123 ; gives his
                                          second Bakerian Lecture, 128 ;

16 ; his education, 17 ; receives         studies tungsten compounds,
his first lessons in chemistry
                                          130 ; discovers uranium penta-
from William H. Balmain, 17 ;             chloride, 130 ; discovers colum-
                                          bium trichloride, 13 1 ; determines
enters University  College,               vapour densities of chlorides

London, 18 ; connection with

Thomas Graham, 19 ; elects to             of lead and thallium, 131;
follow chemistry as a career, 20 ;        disproves existence of "philip-

enters Birkbeck Laboratory, 21 ;          pium," 131 ; maps spark
his appreciation of Williamson,           spectrum of terbium, 131 ;
21 ; becomes Williamson's assis-          redetermines the atomic weight

tant, 21 ; is offered an assayer-         of carbon, 131 ; lectures on
ship in the Sydney Mint, 22 ;
takes his degree in the Uni-              spectrum analysis, 132 ; papers

versity of London, 22 ; goes to           on spectrum analysis, 134 ;

Bunsen at Heidelberg, 23 ; in             Sicilian eclipse expedition, 134 ;
Heidelberg, 25 ; his first pub-                      Hin.M.SE.lePmsycehen, ta13r5y;
lished paper, 25 ; makes his              wreck of
doctor examination, 25 ; memo-            " Lessons
rial lecture on Bunsen, 25-26;
studies German University                 Chemistry," 138; "Chemistry
system, 26 ; returns to London,
                                          Primer," 139; "Treatise on
27 ; is appointed to Owens
College, 27 ; his work at Owens,          Chemistry," 139; "John Dalton
34 ; his part in shaping the
curriculum of the new Univer-             and the Rise of Modern
                                          Chemistry," 141 ; " New View
sity, 38 ; is elected Chairman            of Dalton's Atomic Theory,"
of Convocation, 90 ; as a teacher,
97 ; is offered lectureship at St.        141 ; writes his life and experi-
 Bartholomew's Hospital, 97 ;             ences, 144; is elected into the
Chair at Oxford, 98 ; his method
of working the Chemical De-               Royal Society, 146 ; is awarded

 partment at Owens, 98 ; his              a Royal Medal, 146 ; joins
 characteristics as a lecturer,
                                          Chemical   ; S"oScoiectiye,ty14o6f  ; is Presi-
                                          dent, 146                           Chemical

                                          Industry," 147 ; receives medal

                                          of Society of Chemical Industry,

                                          149 ; Honorary President of
                                          the International Congress of

                                          Applied Chemistry, 149 ; British

                                     206
                              Index

Association, 150 ; British Asso-        Society for the Encouragement
ciation President, 151 ; member
of Royal Commissions, 152 ; is          of the Arts of Painting and
knighted, 154; enters Parlia-
                                        Design, in Liverpool, 7 ; Liver-
ment, 154; political services,          pool Academy, 7 ; Liverpool

                                        Literary and Philosophical

155 ; chemical adviser to Metro-        Society, 7 ; Liverpool Lyceum,
politan Board of Works, 157;            8 ; Liverpool Atheneum, 8 j
becomes Vice-Chancellor Lon-
                                        Liverpool Botanic Garden, 8 ;

don University, 162 ; Fellow of         Liverpool Royal Institution, 8 ;

Eton College, 165 ; member of           is elected member for Liver-
Scottish Universities Commis-
                                        pool, 9; his share in the

sion, 167 ; of Royal Commission         Abolition of the Slave Trade, 9 ;
of 1851 Exhibition, 168; ex-            votes for Catholic Emancipation,
aminer in the Science and Art
                                        10 ; riots in Liverpool, 10 ; his

Department, 170 ; Lister Insti-         Parliamentary work, 10 ; failure

tute,     171 ;    dignities  and       of Liverpool bank, 10 ; his

honours, 175 ; member of Privy          monograph on the monandrian

Council, 176 ; his jubilee, 177 ;       iiplants, 1 1 ; his edition of Pope's

the Deutsche Revue, 179;                works,      ; his death, 12 ; appre-

Germany and England, 180;               ciation of him by Washington

home life, 190 ; characteristics,       Irving, 12

191 ; Woodcote Lodge, 197;              Royal Institution, lecture on

death, 203                              amount of chemical light in

Roscoe,   Maria,   her marriage, 15 ;   tropics by Roscoe, 118
   her "  Life of  Vittoria Colonna,"
                                        Riicker, Sir Arthur, 59, 81, 165

16 ; her characteristics, 16 ;

   letter from, 39                      Sandbach, Mrs., 7
Roscoe, William, his birth, 2 ;         Schorlemmer, Carl, 35, 102,121, 139
                                        Schuster, Dr. Arthur, 131, 133
his schooling, 2 ; his love of          Science Lectures for the People,

literature,  2 ; becomes  an attor-        38
ney, 2 ;     his poem     " Mount
                                        Scott, Principal A. 33
Pleasant," 3 ; attacks the Slave        Scottish Universities CommissionJ.,

Trade, 3 ; welcomes the French

Revolution, 3 ; his      studies of          167
Italian literature, 4 ;  his " Life
                                        Scudder, Frank, 159
of Lorenzo     de* Medici,"    4 ; his  Sherbrooke, Lord, 50
translation  of Tansillo's "  Nurse,"   Spectrum analysis, 132
5 ; his " Life and Pontificate of       Spontaneous polymerization
                                                                          of
                                           volatile hydrocarbons, 101
Leo the Tenth," 5 ; purchases           Stewart, Dr. Balfour, 115
Allerton Hall, 6 ; reclamation of

Chat Moss, 6 ; his connection

with John M'Creery, 6 ; his pro-        Technical Instruction Commis-
tection of John Gibson, 6 ; his
interest in botany, 7 ; founded            sion, 153
                                        Terbium, spark spectrum of, 131

                                   207
                                Index

Thallium perchlorate, 123              Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool, n
"The Life and Experiences of
                                       Ward, Sir A. W., 48, 50, 81
   Sir Henry E. Roscoe,"    144    of  Waterhouse, Alfred, R.A., 44, 75
Thompson, Joseph, his "                Watts, Dr. W. Marshall, 133
                          History      Whatton, W. R., his plans for

  inOwens College," 29, 46, 48            University of Manchester, 46
                                       Williamson, Alexander, his char-
Tithonometer,
                                          acteristics, 21, 93
"Treatise on Chemistry," 139           World Supremacy or War, 185
                                       Wreck of H.M.S. Psyche, 135
Tungsten pentabromide and pen-
                                       Yorkshire Board of Education,
tachloride, 130
                                           55
University College, Dundee, 167
University College, Liverpool, 167     Yorkshire College, the, its origin
University of London, 161                 and growth, 58, et seq. ; report
                                          of Yorkshire Board of Educa-
Uranium pentachloride, 130                tion, 56 ; foundation of pro-
                                          fessorships, 58 ; its first premises,
Vanadium and its compounds, 123           59; its inauguration ceremony,
Victoria University, 77 ; constitu-       60 ; new college buildings, 75 ;
                                          Council considers question of
    tion as proposed by Manchester,      foundation of Northern Univer-
                                          sity, 76, 79
    78 ; objections by Yorkshire,
   So ; joint memorial in favour of,

   8 1 ; charter granted, 86 ; asso-

   ciates of Owens College the

   first graduates, 93

                                    Printed in Great Britain by
UNWIN BROTHERS, LIMITED, THE GRESHAM PRESS, WOKING AND LONDON
              14 DAY USE

RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED

         LOAN DEPT.

           This book is due on the last date stamped below,
           or on the date to which renewed. Renewals only:

                                  Tel. No. 642-3405
           Renewals may be made 4 days prior to date due.
            Renewed books are subject to immediate recall.

            MAR 12 1982 8

              RECEIVED BY

                                       fi 1982

                CIRCULATION DEPT.

(R372osiu; * i o A-OU  Berkeley
Thorpe, Sir pr.E.   H8T5
 Right Hoh.E[. ;i.

              48

UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY

