The life of Sir Clements R. Markham, K.C.B., F.R.S. ... by Admiral
Sir Albert H. Markham ....

Markham, Albert Hastings, Sir, 1841-1918.
London : J. Murray, 1917.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.32044009868217

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
1

                                                                               r>

II v
HARVARD COLLEGE
         LIBRARY

           FROM THE BEQUEST OF

 THOMAS WREN WARD

        Treasurer of Harvard College

                            1830-1842
I
           THE LIFE OF
SIR CLEMENTS R. MARKHAM

                       K.C.B., F.R.S.
*"
SirCLmn* CUlaAJuurv. 9CCM. 9.9tS.

litI>it4*tfr<f  Kii*rat ^/l<rt**ti.^ Y,^4-^J7 .
r
                        THE

        LIFE OF SIR

CLEMENTS R. MARKHAM

                            K.C.B., F.R.S.

        LL.D. CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY ; D.SC. UNIVERSITY OF LEEDS ;

        COMMENDADOR OF THE ORDER OF CHRIST OF PORTUGAL ;

        CHEVALIER OF THE ORDER OF THE ROSE OF BRAZIL ;

KNIGHT  COMMANDER OF THE ORDER OF THE POLE STAR (1St CLASS) OF SWEDEN               ;
              COMMANDER OF THE ORDER OF ST. OLAF OF NORWAY J

                                                   ETC., ETC.

                                               BY

                                     ADMIRAL

        SIR ALBERT H. MARKHAM

                                     K.C.B.

        AUTHOR  or  "T"HAE    GREAT  FROZEN    SEA," "LIFE  OF SIR JOHN  FRANKLIN,
                            WHALING    CRUISE  TO BAFFIN'S  BAV," ETC.

                           LONDON
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, W.

                                             1917
      h^>y (,13, H.S

                               DEc 7 m3*

                                                         Ah rights reserve*

- Tar"

                ,
                                     TO

                    . MINNA,

THIS IMPERFECT RECORD OF HER HUSBAND'S USEFUL
           AND ACTIVE LIFE IS AFFECTIONATELY
                                  INSCRIBED.
                         PREFACE

It seems to me that a few words are necessary in order

to vindicate my presumption in undertaking such a
work as the biography of Sir Clements Markham.

   Among the men of science and letters, to whom his
varied work appeals, there are many better fitted than
myself to do justice to the memory of so distinguished
a man. Nevertheless, when invited to write his life,

I gladly consented to do so, and for the following

reasons : There was no one outside his family circle who

was more intimately acquainted with him. A close

friendship had existed between us for over sixty years,
and during more than half that period his house had
been my home, whenever my professional duties en
abled me to reside in this country. My love and rever

ence for him intensified as the years rolled by, and I felt

that, apart from his scientific labours and geographical
achievements, there was no one more familiar with his
personal charm and lovable disposition than myself.

Thus I felt that I was, perhaps, in a better position

than anyone else to put together a record of his event
ful and extended life. This must be my apology and
justification for appearing now in the role of his

biographer.

   My aim in the present work has been, not so much to
draw attention to his merits as a man of letters and a
great geographer --they are already well known to the
scientific world -- but to emphasise the human touch, to
viii PREFACE

bring out, in other words, the distinctive characteristics

of his personality both as a boy and as a man.

My task, on the whole, has not been an easy one, but

it has been a labour of love, and one of absorbing interest,

revealing, in episodes hitherto unknown to me, the un

selfish springs of his generous nature, his love for the

young, and, above all, his wondrous kindness and

sympathy for those in trouble and distress.

   I have acquired my information principally from his

private journals and published works ; where these have

failed, my own personal knowledge and recollection,

during our long and intimate fellowship, have enabled

me, in several instances, to bridge over gaps in the

written records of his long life. Much information has

also been kindly placed at my disposal by many mutual

relations and friends.

   I am deeply indebted to Mr. Leonard Huxley and

Captain P. B. M. Allan for the valuable advice and

assistance they have given me in preparing the work for

publication, and to Mr. Cyril Longhurst, C.B., for com

piling the excellent Index, which he was kind enough

voluntarily to undertake out of the love and respect

that he bore for his old friend.  A. H. M.
.......I. CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS
CHAPTER

 ...PREFACE
                     CONTENTS

       -                                                             PAGI

                               . . . vii

                                                      I

 II. JOINS THE NAVY                                      17
III. THE PACIFIC STATION - - - -                         36
-----VII. IN THE MEDITERRANEAN                           48
IV. THE SANDWICH ISLANDS    ---                          64
                                                         84
V. CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC  ---                        IQO
----.-.-X. CUZCO TO LIMA
VI. HOMEWARD-BOUND - - - - -                           IIO
.XI. THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA
VIII. THE SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN - - -           127
-----XIII. THE ABYSSINIAN WAR                          144
IX. TRAVELS IN PERU                                    164
                                                       195
XV. ARCTIC INTERESTS, THE MERCHANT SERVICE, AND OTHER- 207
                                                       223
 ......MATTERS
XII. WORK IN INDIA          -----                      241
...XVI. THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES                   262
XIV. GEOGRAPHY AND ARCTIC EXPLORATION - - -            282
 XVII. WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON
                                                       300
.XVIII. THE ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY                 317
 XIX. THE " DISCOVERY " ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION           335
........XX. LATER YEARS        -            -          351

.xxi. SCOTT'S LAST EXPEDITION --THE END
APPENDIX B: WORKS PUBLISHED

......MARKHAM
APPENDIX A: TELEGRAMS AND LETTERS OF SYMPATHY
                               -- - -
SENT TO LADY MARKHAH
APPENDIX C : BOOKS EDITED FOR THE HAKLUYT SOCIETY      363
                                                       366
.....BY SIR CLEMENTS MARKHAM ·                         369
                               BY SIR CLEMENTS

INDEX                          . - 371
h-_
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

                                                                               FACING PAUE

                                                    - Frontispiece
                                                    painting by George

                                                    - - -12
......H.M.S. "COLLINGWOOD"      -          -
SIR CLEMENTS R. MARKHAM
                                     from original
Photograph by Cooper and Humphreys,
     Henry, A.R.A.                          -

"UP SCHOOL," WESTMINSTER    -

.....AREQUIPA WITH MOUNT MISTI                         -
CLEMENTS MARKHAM AS A NAVAL CADET (AGED 14)               - 20

                                                          26

CLEMENTS MARKHAM AS A MIDSHIPMAN (AGED 18)             -  - 100
-------CLEMENTS MARKHAM (AGED 25) -                    -  - I03
H.M.S. "SIDON"   -       -  -        -              -

                                                          161

                                     -                 - - 169

THE "DISCOVERY"                                           329

                            XI
                  THE LIFE OF

SIR CLEMENTS R. MARKHAM

                       CHAPTER I

                    CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS

IN the East Riding of Yorkshire, on that small tract of
land between the Rivers Ouse and Derwent (which,
flowing almost parallel to each other for a distance of
about seventeen miles through the Vale of York, give
their name to that particular wapentake), lies the old
English village of Stillingfleet. This parish, forming
one of the thirteen included in the wapentake, is men
tioned in Domesday Book, and the village itself has
been in existence since the first Anglian occupation of
the country.

   Owing in a great measure to the energies of the monks
of Selby and York, the present beautiful Norman church
of the parish was built during the twelfth century, and
was dedicated to St. Helen and St. Mary. About a
hundred years after its consecration, so much had the
population of the parish increased, it was found neces
sary to make important additions. One of the chief
features of this church, and a source of some pride to
the parishioners, is the beautiful old south-eastern
doorway, reputed to be one of the finest specimens of
ecclesiastical Norman architecture in this country.

  It was to this parish, with its fine old church, that
the Rev. David F. Markham was inducted as Vicar
in May, 1826. He was the son of William Markham,
2  CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS  [ch. 1

of Becca Hall, Aberford, and the grandson of Dr.
William Markham, who was Archbishop of York from

1777 to 1807.

   In July, 1827, Mr. Markham received a letter from

the Prime Minister, informing him that His Majesty had
been graciously pleased to appoint him to a canonry
of Windsor that had just become vacant.* This was of

course accepted. A Windsor canonry in those days was

worth from £1,000 to £1,500 a year, with a residence

inside the walls of the Castle.

   Shortly afterwards, in the same year, he married
Catherine Frances Nannette Milner, daughter of Sir
William Milner, Bart., of Nun Appleton. He was then

twenty-seven years of age, and is described as being a

strikingly handsome man, 6 feet 2 inches in height,
strong and active, and of great personality; a good
cricketer, and fond of all outdoor sports, especially
shooting and hunting. The greater part of these re

creations had at a very early stage to be abandoned,

so that he might devote more time to his parochial and

other more important duties. He had also given much
time to the study of medicine. He was a great reader
and eager in the acquisition of knowledge; he was a
dexterous carpenter and turner, and very skilful in all
work of a mechanical nature. He possessed a natural
taste for painting and sketching, especially in connection
with architectural designs. In addition to these accom
plishments, he was an enthusiastic numismatist, and
owned a valuable collection of coins, some of great

antiquity, which he himself had collected.

   It was here, at the old Vicarage of Stillingfleet, that
Clements Markham was born, on the 20th of July, 1830,

and on the following 10th of September he was baptised

Clements Robert in the library at Becca.

   * It may be mentioned that Dr. Markham, the late Archbishop,

was private tutor to both King George IV. and King William IV. ;
hence the interest taken by His Majesty in the grandson of his old
tutor, to whom he invariably showed great friendship.
cH.I] CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS                        3

   His childhood was an exceedingly happy one, as well
it might be, for it was spent in the constant care and

company of his parents and of his brothers and sisters,

three of whom were born at Stillingfleet. Sometimes,

however, his childish temper would get the better of

him. It is related on the first occasion that he

attended church, being then a little over four years of

age, he became so desperately bored that he began to
pinch his elder brother, who was sitting next to him,

by way of relieving his feelings. This, being naturally

resented by his brother, resulted in a free fight, and

Clements had to be carried out of church struggling

and screaming.

Clements Markham always possessed a marvellous

memory. He used frequently to say that the earliest

recollections of his home at Stillingfleet and the village,

as he saw them in his mind's eye in after-years, were

derived from impressions received when he was not

more than three years of age. He often averred that

he could remember people he had met and events that

had happened when he was between two and three

years old, and in some rare instances before he was even
two ! Of his fourth year he had distinct recollections,

not only concerning important events which occurred

at that period, but of other occurrences of minor im

portance. It is, of course, quite possible that the

knowledge of some of these incidents may have been

imparted to him in after-life, but he always sturdily

asserted that he had a very vivid recollection of events

that occurred before he had reached his fourth birth

day.

As we write, there are before us notes made by him

self, giving minute descriptions of his friends and the

houses in which they lived, visited by him when he was

between three and four years of age. He remembered

the guests that were staying in the different houses,

some  of  whom he never        saawnda--gamina,y  yet  he noted down
many  of  their peculiarities                      we  say blemishes ?
4  CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS  [ch.1

One old lady, for instance, is described as having a long
neck, an eager little face, and a voice like a cockatoo !

One had a mole on her face; another was untidy in
appearance ; another wore little tight curls and was fond
of genealogy; another had a habit of pouting with her
under-lip; another was tall, good-natured, loud-voiced,
and had straw-coloured hair; and so on. The dress

worn by ladies and gentlemen in those days he describes

most carefully, and he gives complete descriptions of
the houses to which he was taken, with the number and
positions of the rooms. He even enumerates the various
pictures in those houses, the positions they occupied,
with the names of the artists who painted them. These

little incidents are typical of the man, his marvellous
memory, and illustrative of his wonderful powers of
observation and description. His notes were not limited

to the friends and relations he met, but extended

to the servants in the various houses he visited. Their
names are all enumerated, more especially those who
were kind to him, and the positions they filled; whilst
in some cases even their family histories are recorded.
All these descriptions were the recollections of a little
child, for some of the people, alluded to by him, died

before he had attained his seventh birthday.
   He was always fond of acting in private theatricals

and charades, but especially the latter; and in the notes
which he has left of his early reminiscences he gives long
and detailed descriptions of charades acted at Stilling-
fleet and elsewhere. These include the names of the
performers, the parts that were allotted to them, the
costumes they wore, the scenery that was used, and

every minute detail connected with the performances.

It must be noted that he left Stillingfleet before he was

eight years of age.
   His boyhood was spent principally at home, but there

were short periods at Windsor, where his father had to
be in residence for two months every year. At which

of these places young Clements preferred to live is a
ch. i] CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS  5

moot question. He loved his home at Stillingfleet, his
garden, his associates, and everything connected with
the place; but he was also very fond of Windsor, its
history, and its surroundings. He loved the river on

which he passed so many pleasant hours, and he de
lighted in the company of the Eton boys. Among the
latter were several of his friends and young relatives,

who, as may readily be imagined, always received a

warm welcome at the Canon's house.

   During the reign of William IV. it was the custom

for the Canon in residence to dine every Sunday with
the King and Queen. On these occasions the guests
had to appear in evening dress with knee-breeches,
silk stockings, and shoes with silver buckles. When his

father returned from these dinners, he invariably brought

back with him some delicious bonbons, which were much
appreciated by young Clements. The death of the King
he felt very keenly, and he was, perhaps, more per
turbed when he realised that in future there would be

no more bonbons; but he was especially grieved when
he was informed by one of the curates that the prayer-
book would have to be altered ! This caused him in

tense sorrow, and, throwing himself on the sofa, he
burst into tears. He was sorry for the death of the

good old King, and he was grieved at the idea that there

would be no more bonbons, but he was overwhelmed

with despair at the thought that his religion (as he
imagined) was going to be altered !

   In March, 1838, Canon Markham was offered, and
accepted, the rectory of Great Horkesley, near Colchester

in Essex. The offer was not at first favourably enter
tained, nor was it accepted without some hesitation.
His family were all. much attached to Stillingfleet, and
the Canon knew that they would not, at any rate at
first, view with equanimity the substitution of the
Essex home for the old one in Yorkshire. However,
it was a larger and more important parish, and, as he
anticipated, it would open up a wider field of usefulness
6  CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS  [ch.1

 to which he could devote his energies. Great was the
 children's grief at having to leave their beloved Stilling-

 fleet, endeared to them by so many happy memories.

 It was with heavy hearts and the shedding of many

 bitter tears that they bade farewell to their old home
 and set out to make a new one in another part of the
 country. Fortunately, however, grief does not last long
 with young children, especially when they have all the
excitement and joy of seeing strange places and the
making of a new home to look forward to. Their
thoughts were soon engrossed in the multifarious arrange
ments for the comfort and happiness that they pictured
would be acquired in their new domicile.

    On their arrival they were delighted with everything
they saw. The house was larger than the one they had
left, the gardens were more extensive, and they set to
work at once to make it as much like the old home as
possible. In this they soon succeeded, but they always
retained a warm corner in their hearts for the old house

at Stillingfleet, where they had passed so many happy

years.

   The church and rectory at Great Horkesley were
about four miles from Colchester, and some little dis
tance from the straggling collection of houses and cot
tages that made up the parish. The rectory was sur
rounded by a large paddock, with glebe land and wood
adjoining. Not far from the rectory gate flowed the
River Stour, which at that particular spot formed the
boundary between the two counties of Essex and
Suffolk. The church was not so rich in architectural

interest as the one at Stillingfleet, and many alterations
and additions had to be made to the house in order to

accommodate the family; but the grounds and gardens
were speedily tastefully laid out under the personal
superintendence of the Rector.

   Just as the two boys were beginning to realise the
comfort and happiness of their new surroundings, the
fateful question of school was broached, then discussed,
1. 1]  CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS                                    7

nd finally arranged. Clements was then eight years

·f age ; his brother was two years his senior. It was
lecided that they should both be sent to a school at
3heam, which had been highly recommended to their
parents. This school was conducted by the Rev.

William Browne, on what he was pleased to call the

Pestalozzi method. The main feature of his system
consisted in never keeping the boys at their lessons for
more   than
they   were  one   hour,    at  "  the   expiration of  "wfhoircha  time
             sent  out    to        air  their brains                like

period. The selection of this particular school was
largely due to the fact that many of the friends and
relations of the two boys were being educated there.
Also it had an excellent reputation, which
enhanced by results --at least in the case  was certainly
                                            of these two

brothers.

       Clements Markham was nearly nine years old when

he went to school. He travelled by coach from Col

chester, but not without accident. While changing
coaches in London, the string with which one of his

many parcels was secured broke, and all his beautiful
rice cakes (to which he was very partial) were scattered
in the mud I Some were trodden under foot by the

passers-by, and many were eagerly pounced upon by
the street boys and hastily devoured. This incident,
 coming on the top of his departure from home and all
 it meant to him, was the last straw, and he burst into

tears.                                   of pains " under

   On arrival at Cheam he complained

his jaw," and soon developed mumps ; so he was promptly

isolated, and kept in quarantine for ten days. During

the perio"d    of his   confinement he   amused himself by
             Parry's   Polar Voyages,"   and this, he always
reading

maintained, was the principal cause for the great interest

       he subsequently took in Polar exploration.

         Altogether he thoroughly enjoyed his school life at
       Cheam, and made many lifelong friendships. He wrote

       out a description of every boy (and there were over
8         CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS                     [ch.1

fifty in the school), including one of himself, the latter
in the following words :

   " When I went to Cheam I was a good-looking, well-
made little boy of eight years and ten months, in a
round jacket, turn-down collar over it, and a Tarn o'
Shanter cap, black with red squares round the edge. I
was always called Pope.* In my first half I had no
friends, only G   as a protector; and I especially
hated D   R
                 . But we at once made friends in
the second half, became devoted to each other, and
were inseparable until dearer friends came."

   His special companions were his cousin William
Wickham (subsequently M.P. for Petersfield) and
Raglan Somerset, for both of whom he entertained the

warmest feelings of love and affection. Many of his

schoolmates attained distinction in after-life; among
them may be mentioned E. A. Freeman, the eminent

historian, and Edward Parry (son of the great Arctic
explorer), who died when Bishop of Dover and Dean

of Canterbury.

   His pen even then was busily occupied. He wrote

a full and complete description of all the masters,

ushers, and other officials, connected with the school,

which certainly bears the impress of accuracy. He

was fond of all outdoor games, and was fairly pro

ficient in most of them. A game of cricket he enjoyed,
but always regarded it as a man's game; and, as he had

no intention of devoting his life to playing games, he

took but little interest in it. Jumping was his favourite

form of athletics, and he was constantly engaged in

endeavouring to beat his last record at the high jump.

   He was an apt pupil, and was especially interested

in the study of  gtheoagt r"apchoymianngd  astronomy,   snowing very
clearly thereby                            events cast  their shadows

before."

   After three years spent at Cheam, his parents deemed

it advisable to remove him to a larger and more impor

   * Presumably on account of his Christian name.
CH.I] CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS                          o

tant school, and one more in consonance with his age.

It was decided, therefore, to send him to Westminster,

the alma mater of many generations of the Markham

family. Accordingly, he left Cheam in April, 1842.
He took his departure with feelings of real regret; he

had thoroughly enjoyed his school life, he liked his

schoolfellows, he respected those set in authority over

him, he listened whole-heartedly to all his masters taught

him, and he had acquired much useful knowledge. He

himself says, in connection with his life at Cheam, that
it was really a good school for learning -- better, in his

opinion, than any school of the present day. He knew

none where history, geography, and elocution, were

taught so well, or where classics and mathematics could

be taught better. He thought at the time that the boys

were very hard in their criticisms of Mr. Browne and

"sotmheat,ofin  the other   masters, but he naively observes
                 thinking  and speaking as we did, we invari

ably forgot his admirable system of teaching, his good

intentions, his constant thoughtfulness for us, and his

liberality." This was a generous admission for a school

boy to make regarding the schoolmaster he was leaving.

He always looked back with the greatest pleasure to

the happy and profitable days he spent at Cheam, which

certainly contributed towards the making of the man.

His departure was much regretted by the boys, and

especially by his particular friends, to whom he was

sincerely attached.

Before going to Westminster he enjoyed a good
long holiday. This he spent at Great Horkesley and

Windsor, as well as in visiting many of his friends and

relations. In addition, the time was rendered all the

more pleasurable by the presence at home of some of his

old schoolmates, who had been invited to stay with him.

When not engaged in paying visits, or entertaining his

many friends at Great Horkesley, he devoted his spare

moments to literary work, and he undoubtedly earned

the reputation, even at that early age, of wielding a
1o        CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS                 [ch.1

very facile pen. After reading the adventures of Robin

son Crusoe and Masterman Ready, he composed, before

he left Cheam, a romance founded on those two delight

ful works of fiction, in which he depicted himself in the

character of the hero ! This was followed by a History

of England, in eight chapters, written when he was only

ten years of age.   He certainly brought it up      "toQduaeteen,
for it concluded   with the following words:

Victoria  married Albert, Prince   of Saxe-Coburg.  boyTh"e--y
have got  one daughter, and are   going to have a

a marvellous illustration of early prescience ! To this

latter work he added a map of England and Wales

constructed entirely by himself, showing in colour the

boundaries of the various counties.

    Even at that age he admits that he strongly realised

the necessity of a knowledge of geography for the full

comprehension of history. His father happened to be

in possession of a small printing-press, which he used for

printing the parish notices, etc., and he was so pleased

with the result of his boy's literary labours that he

printed twenty copies of the History of England in small

quarto form, had them neatly bound in leather covers,

and distributed them to a few of his relations. By this

act the boy's literary ardour was so much gratified that

he decided unhesitatingly upon becoming an author !

How he adhered to this decision time has shown.

    His next literary effort was the compilation of a

history of different countries and peoples, which in

cluded Egypt, Abyssinia, Macedonia, The Jews, Rome,

Britain, Persia, Mexico, Peru, France, Scotland, Spain,
Portugal, Italy, Poland, Hungary, Russia, Sweden,

Ireland, Lapland, Germany, Prussia, Denmark, and

Turkey. Nearly all in this series were illustrated by

maps drawn by himself: a truly gigantic and ambitious

project for a boy of his tender years, but it was one

that was successfully accomplished.

    Not content with the writing of historical works, he

turned his attention during the holidays to biography,
ce.i] CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS                                 11

and wrote the lives of those historical characters of all

ages in whom he had been most interested. These were

Sesostris, Cyrus, Cambyses, Darius, Alexander, Octa-
vius, Edward the Black Prince, Henry V., Ferdinand

and Isabella, Charles V., Solyman, Francis I., Andrew I.
of Hungary, Gustavus Adolphus, Christina, Charles XII.,
Peter the Great, Catherine II., Alexander of Russia,

Suvarrow, John Sobieski, Thaddeus, Kosciusko, Thad-
deus of Warsaw, Stanislas Poniatowski, Napoleon,
Wellington, and Nelson. A somewhat strange and

complex assortment of heroes !

   The next subject to  which  ehnetittluerdned"  his literary  and
scientific mind was a   work                      Astronomy     and

Physical Geography," which was completed in Sep
tember, 1842. In the former he describes the planets,
comets, and constellations, and gives an explanation of
the ecliptic and signs of the zodiac. In the Physical Geo

graphy he illustrates a series of definitions and explana

tions of natural phenomena. A somewhat pretentious

work to emanate from the brain of a boy of twelve !

Following this he wrote a book on heraldry, a subject

on which in after-years he was a great authority.

This work contained a summary of the different

orders of knighthood existing in various countries.

Unquestionably in his young days he was, as in after

life, a prolific and versatile writer.

During this time he had the pleasure of making the

acquaintance of Lord Ellesmere, who some years after

wards became President of the Royal Geographical

Society. He was extremely kind to young Clements,

the more so when he discovered that he was fond of

geography and history, urging him to persevere in the

study of these subjects. He related to him many en

grossing tales of Arctic and Antarctic voyages, and gave

him an interesting account of the geography of Central

Asia; all of which young Markham carefully listened to,

and treasured in his mind.

As a child, he was much interested in natural
12 CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS [ch. 1

history, and while at Stillingfleet he and his brother

formed a large collection of the butterflies, moths,

beetles, and other insects, to be found in that neigh

bourhood. Geology, conchology, and other scientific

studies, were not neglected. In fact, his thirst for

knowledge regarding everything pertaining to the earth

and its inhabitants was as insatiable as a boy as it

was in after-years when a man.

After a somewhat long holiday, which, however, was

not unprofitably spent (as may well be realised from
the foregoing account of his literary labours during that

period), he entered Westminster School on the 27th of
May, 1842, being then nearly twelve years of age. The

grief connected with his home-leaving was somewhat

softened by the knowledge that his brother David, and

his cousin William Wickham,and Raglan Somerset (who
were with him at Cheam), would be his schoolfellows

at Westminster.

   On the        morning    o"f  his entry he was conducted,
according       to custom,       up school," and directed to sit

behind the examination-table. To a boy of his age the

whole procedure was a very awe-inspiring ordeal. The

vast size of the room, with its lofty and open roof; the

masters and scholars around him, attired in their college
caps and gowns; the Latin prayers -- all filled him with
awe and wonder, with which, it must be admitted, was

mingled a certain amount of nervousness due to the

imposing surroundings. Then his name was called in

a loud and commanding voice by the Head-Master, who

interrogated him as to his general knowledge. The

"resUupltpeorf  Sthcihsooelxa"mininathtieon"  was that he was placed  in  the
                                              under fourth form."

According to the rules and regulations of the school,

a boy in the same class as that to which the new

boy is appointed was selected by the usher to act

as his Substance, and to him the new boy became a

Shadow. It was the duty of the Substance to initiate

the latter in all the ordinary details connected with his
a,

a
H

in

Z
H

in

oc
oK

in
cH.I] CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS                       13

school-life, and to see that his Shadow was in possession

of the necessary books and other indispensable proper

ties required for his education. The Substance had also

to explain the localities of the various places frequented

by the boys outside the precincts of the school, such as

the shops where bats and balls, sweets, cakes, and other

articles dear to a schoolboy's heart, were sold. It was

"alsoouthios f  duty to point out the   limits that constituted
                 bounds," and other    important details of a
similar nature --such, for instance, as the hard-and-

fast rule laid down by the boys themselves, that none

but a sixth form boy was privileged to walk on the west
side of Abingdon Street. In a few days the new boy

was fully initiated into all the customs and routine of

the school, and consequently ceased to exist as a Shadow,

reverting again to a material body. It is interesting to

know that this good old regulation regarding the Sub

stance and his Shadow still exists at Westminster. It

appears to be a very excellent school custom, tending

to mitigate the sorrow and loneliness felt by a boy

on leaving home, and frequently results in lifelong

friendships.

Markham found that the change from a private

school to Westminster was greater than he had anti

cipated. He was surprised to find that the boys had

so much liberty, and there was a different tone and

better mode of life among them. He was much im

pressed by the beautiful vista of cloisters, and the air

of mystery and antiquity that surrounded them ; also
by the venerable old schoolroom in which they studied,

and the glorious Abbey where the boys attended service

on Sundays and saints' days. He was delighted

w" iethighttshe"  proximity   of the river, with      the graceful
                  and other  craft gliding along its
                                                      surface. All

combined to excite his imagination, and he was wont to

assert that Westminster School with all its attributes

was a more wonderful and delightful place than he had

ever imagined could exist even in his wildest dreams.
14  CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS                                              [ch.1

He became enthusiastic over the old school; and as

the days went by this enthusiasm increased, until it

developed into a love and admiration for the ancient

institution and everything appertaining to it, growing
in intensity as time went on.

    No boy could have been more happy and more

satisfied with his lot than was Markham during

those hallowed and never-to-be-forgotten days at

Westminster.

    During his stay he was domiciled at Mr. Benthall's

house, together with eight other boys whose ages

varied from ten to seventeen years. It was the end
house on the right-hand side, as Little Dean's Yard is

entered. The ground-floor with the first and second

floors were appropriated to Mr. Benthall and his family,

his visitors, and servants ; the nine boys were relegated to

the garrets, where, however, they were very comfortable

and well out of the master's way--an important con

s"idpeorkaetriionng.    Privacy was insured by              what was       called
                                                            in driving     a red-
                      the door"; this consisted

hot poker through the floor against the door, and letting

the end rest on the ceiling below. The boys in the

school below the sixth form were all compelled to run

whether coming up or going down school, even if they

were called up for a flogging ! An excellent practice for

boys, and one that has been customary in the Navy

from time immemorial.

Altogether Markham thoroughly enjoyed himself at

Westminster.          tDo ir"ectthley  Faieftledrsno"onfor  school    was   over
everyone went                                                cricket  and  other

games, or away to the boats. Markham invariably

preferred the latter. He was generally selected as

coxswain, and he was very proud of his skill in taking

his boat through the arches of the wooden bridge at

Battersea, with the oars almost touching on either side.

He loved boating, and his great ambition was to be

selected for one of the eights. The great event of his

first year was the race between Westminster and Eton.
ch.1] CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS  1s

He used to watch the training of the crew with the
most intense interest, looked at them with the keenest

admiration as they passed, and heard with wonder how
the crew lived during their period of training on raw
beefsteaks and porter ! He was in the steamer accom

panying the boats during the race; the result, to his
intense joy, was that Westminster won by thirty-five
seconds. He was hoarse for some days afterwards from

cheering so vigorously.
   The first of these races* was rowed in 1825, the course

being then from Westminster to Eton and back, a dis
tance of 86 miles ! This was accomplished in twenty-
two hours, including seven hours' detention in locks and
other unforeseen stoppages. The first race with Eton
was really in 1829, when Eton was victorious. Racing
was kept up with the other public schools, but in a some
what spasmodic manner, and with fluctuating fortunes,
until 1884, when it finally came to an end so far as

Westminster was concerned.
   At Westminster, Markham made the acquaintance of

James G.Goodenough, with whom he formed a lifelong
friendship.

   There can be no doubt that he derived great bene
fit from his studies at this time, and that his life

was bright and happy during those two years is suffi
ciently testified by his constant allusions to the happi
ness he experienced at the school, and by the love and
reverence with which he spoke in after-life of his West
minster days. He always took the greatest interest in
the lives and careers of the boys who were educated
there; and nothing gave h m so much real pleasure, in
the latter years of his life, as the honour that was accorded

him when he was elected a member of the governing
body of his old school, and was appointed one of the
Trustees of Dr. Busby's Charity. His portrait, painted

   * This was not a " race" in the ordinary acceptation of the term,
but a friendly visit and a test of endurance between the two schools.
A somewhat severe test it must be acknowledged !
16  CHILDHOOD AND SCHOOL-DAYS                                          [cH. i

in oils by Mr. George Henry, A.R.A.* (the best likeness
of him that was ever painted), was presented to him in

1913 by his old Westminster friends and colleagues,
when he resigned the presidency of the Elizabethan

Club, and his membership         of  "thseomgeovaecrknninogwlebdogdmyeonft  the
                                                                             of
school. It was bestowed         as

the great services which he has rendered to the school

in his official capacities and otherwise."

* Mr. Henry has very kindly painted a replica of this picture,
                                                                       Society. In
which he has presented      to  the Royal     Gtehoagtra"pihtichaal s  been a labour
making the presentation,   Mr.  Henry writes

of love to him to do so."
                       CHAPTER II

                        JOINS THE NAVY

DURING the time Clements Markham was at West
minster, he was a constant visitor at Langham House,
the residence of his aunt, the Countess of Mansfield.*
In May, 1844, he was present at a dinner-party given
by Lady Mansfield, and on the retirement of the ladies
from the dining-room he found himself sitting next to
Rear-Admiral Sir George Seymour, who was at that
time a Lord of the Admiral ty.f He describes him as
being a tall, handsome man in spite of the disfiguring
marks of a severe wound on one side of his mouth re
ceived in Sir Richard Duckworth's brilliant action with
the French Fleet in the West Indies in 1806. In the
course of conversation, the Admiral asked Markham if
he would like to enter the Navy and go out with him
in his flagship to the Pacific, whither he was going

as Commander-in-Chief. At first he did not quite

realise the importance of the question, and how greatly
his acceptance of the offer would influence his future
life; but it appealed to his roving imagination, for he
impulsively jumped at the proposal and unhesitatingly
accepted it. He went back to Westminster that even

ing in a state of intense excitement. A few days later

his father received a letter from Lady Mansfield announc-

   * Langham House was at that time situated at the north end of
Regent Street, facing Portland Place. The Langham Hotel now
occupies the site of the old house and garden. The Countess of
Mansfield was a daughter of Archbishop Markham.

   t Sir G. Seymour's eldest son married the daughter of Lady
Mansfield, and consequently became a cousin of Clements Markham.
18                       JOINS THE NAVY                                                  [ch. n

ing the fact that his son would shortly receive an appoint

ment as a naval cadet to H.M.S. Collingwood, about to

be fitted out at Portsmouth as flagship of Sir George

Seymour. This was conditional, of course, on his pass
ing the necessary qualifying examination -- an ordeal,

however, that was not of a very strenuous or difficult

nature.

    He was taken to Portsmouth by his father on

the 28th qf June, and was told to report himself on

board the St. Vincent, which was lying at Spithead.

Arriving on board, and mentioning the object of his

visit, he was shown into an office on the upper deck,

where he found another youth, who also had just come

aboard on a similar errand. There the much-dreaded

examination took place. They were told to sit down

and write the Lord's Prayer. The paper, however, was

taken away from them before they had half completed

their task, and the two candidates were informed that

they had passed, and might consider themselves as

officers in the Royal Navy, and that they would receive

certificates to that effect in due course. Before, however,

they were permitted to take their departure, a fat old

doctor made      whiinsd,apapsekaerdan"ceif,    and,   punching them vio
lently in the
                                              it hurt  ?" On their reply

ing in the negative, he reported them as medically fit

for the service.

    Thus was Markham enrolled as a member of the Royal

Navy with the exalted rank of Naval Cadet.* On land

ing with his father from the St. Vincent, they made all

the necessary arrangements for his outfit at the first

naval outfitter they passed. Clements then proceeded

to spend the leave that had been granted him, in London

visiting his friends.

    The Collingwood was actually put in commission on

the 4th of May. She was then a mere shell; her masts
were not even in place. She had no guns, no fittings

    * He   was   one of  the first to  "befirssto-cclaasllsed.voluPnritoerertso."  1844  officers
     this  rank   were   designated
of

                                                                                         ·-- --
CH.II]           JOINS THE NAVY           19

of any sort, no stores or provisions on board. The

newly appointed officers and men had to provide, stow,

and place, all these necessaries. In other words, they

had to rig the ship from truck to keelson, and to prepare

her for a full commission at sea for a period of anything

under five years. Under these circumstances, as the

officers and men could not well, or comfortably, be

accommodated on board their own ship, they were

hulked on board the Victorious, an old line-of-battle

ship maintained in Portsmouth Harbour for such special

services. On board this hulk they were kept until such

time as their own ship would be ready for their reception .

It was not considered desirable, however, that the

younger officers should live on board these hulks while

the ships to which they were appointed were fitting out,

for the strict discipline maintained on board a regular

man-of-war is somewhat relaxed in a hulk, where it is

almost impossible to adhere strictly to the rules and

regulations enforced on board a ship in commission. It

is not surprising, therefore, that leave should be given

to the younger officers to remain on shore until the ship

was ready to receive them. This was an excellent

arrangement,     titnhasebtlaemnco"eree"veelarsyrpgeeceivjauellgynsinoagsf,"bweaeenrdleaabtrohnuanttdhepadrtizoeinn
this particular
the gunroom

fighters from the shore came off every night to initiate

the senior members of the gunroom         m"esSsominettihmeesmtyhse
teries of the noble art of self-defence.

instructor   "wasThBerilel  Hayman, sometimes it was the
' Chicken.'                 were always nightly sprees on

shore, when huge gilded boots, colossal spectacles, and

other advertising symbols exhibited over the fronts of

shop windows formed an irresistible temptation to

young men overflowing with high animal spirits. These

"signs" were often successfully purloined and taken

on board the hulk and exhibited as trophies of courage

and dexterity. It must be remembered that these so-

called amusements were only indulged in at night, after
20                    JOINS THE NAVY                                [ch. n

a hard day's work had come to an end. It was their

way, in those days, of letting off steam.

    While on leave in London, Markham used to go

every morning to breakfast with Mr. Richmond, the

celebrated artist, who was then engaged in painting

in water-colours his portrait, in all the glory of his new

uniform. That the result was a very charming picture
may be judged by the illustration of it here given.

    His time on leave passed all too quickly. There was

so much to be done, so many friends to see, so many

farewells to take. He could not help realising that a

voyage to the Pacific Ocean meant going to the other

side of the world, and remaining there for some years.

There was no telegraphic communication in those days,

posts were irregular, and letters took about six months

to reach their destination.        "Tfhaererewewll.a"s        a real and
pathetic meaning in the word
                                                              A departure

for such a long and uncertain period was an event that
entailed much sorrow and earnest thought. Still, to a

boy of fourteen years of age there was much to make

amends in the prospect of what lay before him : the new

life he was about to lead, the strange places he was to

visit, the wonderful sights he would witness, the thought

of becoming personally acquainted with peoples of whom
he had only read in books -- all these combined to com

pensate him for the anguish he must otherwise have

felt in parting from those he loved so dearly.

    He rejoined his ship at Portsmouth, laden with pres

ents and keepsakes from his numerous friends. But

the gift he prized the most was a Bible and prayer-book,

subscribed for by the boys in his house at Westminster,

containing on the flyleaf the signatures of the donors.
                           July
   On the    1  8th   o"f          thoveerof"ficferorsm  and  men    of the
Collingwood     were       turned                        the  hulk  to their

proper ship, and the regular routine and discipline of a

well-regulated man-of-war was henceforward enforced.

Young Markham was duly initiated in the duties apper

taining to his rank and position in the ship.
CLEMENTS  MARKHAM AS A NAVAL CADET (AGED I4).

              Painted by Thomas Richmond, 1844*

          To face pagt 20,
CH.II]  JOINS THE NAVY                                            21

Among his messmates was young Goodenough, who

had been one of his principal chums at Westminster.
This close friendship, renewed in the Collingwood, was

maintained throughout the whole course of their lives.
   On the 2oth of July (Markham's fourteenth birthday)

the Collingwood proceeded out of Portsmouth Harbour

under all plain sail, and anchored at Spithead. It was
a gallant sight, for those who were fortunate enough to
witness it, to see this grand old line-of-battle ship, with

her canvas swelling out before the breeze, threading her

way between the numerous ships at anchor, and through

the narrow entrance of the harbour, almost touching the

old Quebec Hotel, which, being constructed on piles, pro
jected out a considerable distance from the shore into

the harbour, necessitating vessels, entering or leaving

the port, passing in such close proximity to the building
that the proverbial biscuit could be thrown with ease

into the windows of the coffee-room. It was a common

saying in those days that a ship in passing often poked

the end of her flying jib-boom into the hotel window !
But steam has revolutionised all this, besides which the

old Quebec Hotel no longer exists.
   Markham had a great love and admiration for his

ship, as all sailors should; and as he gazed upon her

esaxpilrinegssedouthisofophianriobnoutrhatht a"t   memorable   morning, he
                                                  she was the  most perfect

and beautiful sight in the world ; certainly she could not

be surpassed for grace and beauty by anything afloat;

her very appearance gave an air of power and grandeur

that it was impossible to describe."

The journal which he kept at that time is a pattern

of neatness, and contains a marvellous description of

the ship and all her internal arrangements. Plans and

sketches of the various parts are carefully drawn. All

the flags used for the purpose of transmitting signals

from one ship to another are beautifully painted in their

correct colours. He enters into minute details regarding

the daily routine, the various drills that were carried

                                                               3
22  JOINS THE NAVY  [ch.n

out, the hours for their meals, their watches, their duties,
and, in fact, everything connected with their daily life
on board. Nothing is omitted; everything is described
down to the smallest details, such as how the time on

board ship is kept ; who is responsible for the striking of
the bell; and the method of heaving the log for the
purpose of ascertaining the speed of the ship. The de
scription and biography of every officer in the ship, from
the Admiral down to himself, together with their several
pedigrees and coats of arms, correctly emblazoned in

colours, are clearly set forth. Even the names and his
tories of several members of the crew, more especially
those with whom he was most closely associated in his

watch and other duties, are set down. He loved his

ship, and thought there was nothing in the world that
could compare with her either in beauty or efficiency.

   It was usual at that time for a flag officer, proceeding

to the command of a foreign station, to take his family

out as passengers in his flagship, provided, of course,
there was no immediate probability of the ship being
actively engaged with an enemy. Sir George Sey
mour took full advantage of the privilege, and on
this occasion he was accompanied by his wife, four
daughters, one son* aged six, and a full complement of
servants of both sexes. The quarters they occupied are
fully described by Markham in his journal, and he does
not omit even to record where the cow which came on

board with them at the last moment was located.

   He made many good and stanch friends among the
officers of the ship, several of whom rose to distinction in
the service. Among these may be mentioned the Flag
Lieutenant, Beauchamp Seymour,f Lieutenant William

Peel, J Lieutenant R. Quin,§ Lieutenant Reginald

   * Afterwards General Lord William F. Seymour, G.C.B. Died

1914.

   t Admiral Lord Alcester, G.C.B.

  J Afterwards Captain Sir William Peel, V.C., K.C.B.

   § Died Rear- Admiral Richard Quin. Married a sister of Clements
Markham.
ch. n]        JOINS THE NAVY                                                        23

McDonald,* Algernon De Horsey ,f Sherard Osborn, and

James G. Goodenough.
Markham was always very conservative in his views

and opinions on naval matters, especially in connection

with all details regarding dress and appearance. At the

time of which we write beards and moustaches were un

heard of in the Service; in fact, the latter were onty

worn by cavalrymen. When Mr. Childers, who was

First Lord of the Admiralty in 1870, issued an order

mMaarkkinhgamthedeacblaorleitdiontheofSethrveicreazwoarso"ptgiooninagl  in  the  Navy,
                                                                        to  the  dogs."

This was a favourite expression of his when innovations

were introduced, and he frequently remarks in his

journal  on   e"veqnutiste  that happened before,                       or  after,  the
Service  had                 gone to the dogs."

His descriptions of his brother officers are made at

some length, and are very amusing. No one escapes his

Jcriticism, not even        the Admiral or the Captain. The

latter was " Smart           by name and Smart by nature --

a good sailor, a strict officer, and         haeraigd,idisdi"scaidpmliniattreiadn.t"o
The Commander, Captain Broad

be the smartest and best commander in the Service : his

mouth was that of a sybarite when at rest, but in anger

it was compressed; but he had a very winning smile
                                                                            -- we dare
and  he was   ahigsoondamfee--llohwe."desAcnriobtehserasof"ficaenr
not  mention                                                                old fellow

with a   large stomach,            sly and   dwecaesit"fulw, elbl urteaodu,twinatredllliy
a jolly                             another
         old boy." Yet

gent, and a thorough seaman." And so his journal goes

on through the entire list of more than seventy officers

that were on board the Collingwood when he joined the

shheipwraittePso: rt"smHeouwtha.s  Of his young friend Goodenough

                                   honourable, true, tender-hearted,

* Known in the Navy as " Rim " McDonald. Died a Vice-
Admiral and a K.C.B.

| Admiral Sir Algernon De Horsey, G.C.B.
   X Admiral Sir Robert Smart.     Was Commander-in-Chief                        in the
Mediterranean, 1864.
24                  JOINS THE NAVY                                 [CH. n

modest, brave, and a hater of all things evil. Everyone

loved him, and  he was  Ga otorudeie.a' n"d  constant  friend. We
always called   him '                         What     a delightful
description of one boy by another ! A description

that remained faithful and accurate all the days of his

life.

    His Admiral held very decided views regarding the

habit of smoking, which perhaps would hardly be

tolerated at the present day. On hoisting his flag on

board  the   Collingwood, he issued          "a  a  memorandum       in
which  he   denounced smoking as                      deleterious  and

filthy habit that destroyed the inner coating of the

stomach and rendered the smoker unfit for social pur

poses." Although permission was given to the men to

smoke, they could only do so at certain times and in

places specially appointed for the purpose. With

regard to the officers, tlje Admiral expressed a pious

hope that they would not

" practise this dirty and disgusting vice. If any officer

was unable to exist without smoking, he was to report
himself to the Admiral, when a time and place would
be allotted to him for the purpose of indulging in this
pernicious habit."

It is needless to say that no officer dared so to report him

self. The Captain of Marines, however, was an inveterate

smoker, but, not wishing the Admiral to become ac

quainted with the fact, he continued at the risk of his

life to enjoy (?) the fragrant weed by hanging out of the
bow port on the main deck, with his feet resting on the
bobstay. In this position he was able to escape from

the visual as well as the olfactory sense of the Admiral.

It is difficult in the present day to conceive a man-of-

war in which the officers are practically prohibited

from smoking. The habit is, if anything, steadily on the

increase, and in many ships it is indulged in at all times

and in all places,  to  the  pgrraecattisedisthcoem"fovritce.a"nd  annoy
ance of those who   do  not
ch. n]                   JOINS THE NAVY                             25

   Just before leaving England, Markham was invited to
luncheon by the Admiral. Here he was greatly inter

ested in meeting Lady Seaford, whose first husband had

been Sir Thomas Hardy, Nelson's Flag Captain in the

Victory at the Battle of Trafalgar. Many distinguished

visitors came off to the ship, among them the Prince

of Prussia (afterwards the first German Emperor), who
was accompanied by the old Duke of Wellington and

Prince Albert. The Lords of the Admiralty also visited

her, more or less officially. On the completion of their

inspection they were being entertained at luncheon by

the Admiral, when suddenly a heavy splash was heard

immediately astern of the ship, and therefore distinctly

noticeable by the luncheon-party in the Admiral's

after-cabin. This was quickly followed by two other

scprylasohef s"clMosaen  alongside,   and   immediately afterwards  the
                           overboard    !"  resounded throughout    the

ship. Their lordships left their lunch in great haste,

and rushed to the stern gallery, whence they beheld a

couple of men struggling in the water, endeavouring to

support a boy who had apparently fallen overboard.
A boat speedily
                         oenffecbtoeadrdt.heir"  rescue, and  "thewetrhereefulwl eroef
safely brought
                                                 My Lords

praise and admiration at the gallant conduct of the two

officers, who had, as they innocently supposed, risked

their lives by plunging overboard to the assistance of

their young messmate.

The Captain of the ship, however, being a very canny

man as well as a strict disciplinarian, saw through the

plot, and, sending for the two officers, instead of com

plimenting them on their gallant action, administered a

severe wigging to them on the quarter-deck; he further

informed their lordships that the whole thing was a

prearranged plot, craftily designed by the two officers to

bring themselves to the immediate notice of their lord

ships with a view to promotion ! They had induced the

youngest naval cadet, after satisfying themselves that

he could swim, to jump overboard through the stern
26                     JOINS THE NAVY                              [ch. n

port in the gunroom; they then plunged into the sea

to effect his supposed rescue ! We hasten to add that

Markham was not the consenting party.

    On the 6th of September the Admiral's party em

barked, and the following day at 2.30 p.m. the Colling-
wood weighed anchor and proceeded under all plain sail

on her long voyage to the Pacific. She was followed

for some hours by a crowd of yachts and sailing boats,

containing friends of the officers, all wildly cheering and

waving their farewells. Favoured by fine weather and

fair breezes, the ship made good progress. The young

naval cadet thoroughly enjoyed the new life, the thresh

old of which he had just crossed. He was never

weary of gazing aloft and watching the great sails as

they swelled out before the breeze, or lazily flapped

against the masts and rigging when the wind fell. He

loved to watch from the bowsprit the great ship plough

ing her way through the bright blue sea, and to mark

the waves rising and falling, their crests tumbling over

in white foam into the hollows formed by their unceasing

movements. All was new to him, he did not suffer from

sea-sickness, and we can realise how thoroughly a boy

of his creative imagination appreciated the new life

upon which he was now embarking.

    Markham was an exceedingly good-looking boy, and

wdeasscraibegdreahtimfavasou"ritthee  with  all the officers, one  of whom
                                      most  beautiful as well as   the most

engaging boy on board the ship." In another letter

wmraidtteentoto"  his  father by one        of his friends,  reference is
                  his  gentle, sweet        manners and      his extreme

beauty."

    He was of course appointed to keep watch, and was

fortunate in being placed in that of the First Lieutenant,

Mr. Hankey, an excellent officer and a good friend. The

officer of the forecastle was Lieutenant Peel, in whose

company he invariably passed the greater part of the

watch, and to whom he was indebted for much useful

advice on professional and other matters. In such in
      ·s

oQ
p
O
ch.n]  JOINS THE NAVY  27

structive conversation the watches passed quickly and

pleasantly, and he often regretted hearing eight bells
strike, knowing that his duties were, for the time being,

at an end.

   After a pleasant run of thirteen days, the Collingwood

cast anchor in Funchal Roads, Madeira. It was a day

of great excitement for all the youngsters, especially for
our Naval Cadet. Leave having been granted, it was

not long before the shore was reached, and our friends,
mounted on wiry little horses, went scampering about all
over the island, the attendant horse-boys keeping up
with them by hanging on to the tails of their steeds.

Everything they did and saw was of the greatest in

terest to them. They were particularly amused with

the head-dress of the natives, both men and women,
which consisted of little blue skull-caps fitting closely
round their heads, surmounted by a stiff standing-up
tail, which they thought resembled an inverted wine

funnel. Their stay on shore, however, was brief, for

they were obliged to be on board by sunset, as they
sailed the same night. The visit, however short, was a

most enjoyable one, and afforded a pleasant relaxation
after the monotony of being so many days at sea.

   His life on board was not an idle one. In addition
to carrying out his duties as a watch-keeping officer,

which necessitated his being on deck about eight hours
out of the twenty-four, he had to attend school under
the Naval Instructor from 9 to n.30 a.m. every day

except Saturdays and Sundays. At n.30 every morn

ing the midshipmen assembled on the poop with their
sextants or quadrants (as the case might be) for the pur
pose of observing the meridian altitude of the sun. The
afternoons were devoted to the carrying out of various
drills, such as gunnery, cutlass, and rifle exercises, sea
manship, including knotting and splicing, and so forth.
On particular days, also, they were made thoroughly
acquainted with all the different parts of the ship by
personally visiting them, and learning the purposes for
28                         JOINS THE NAVY                       [ch. n

which they were utilised. The construction of the ship

was explained to them, and they were taught the names

of the spars, sails, rigging, etc., specially qualified petty

officers being selected as the instructors.

On one occasion when one of these men was pointing

out and describing, for the information of the youngsters,

rtehme anrkaemdesthaantd"  uses  of the various   ropes, he casually
                           they  were very dry."   Markham, always

thirsting for knowledge, innocently inquired, "Why

should   they  not be       dry, as no rain  "hiafswfeatllewneaftohrersowmaes
         and   he also     wanted to know
days ?"

in "anYyouwagyoopsreej!u"discaiaidl  to the ropes."          "  what
                                     one of the midshipmen;

he wants is a tot of grog !"

The Admiral and his family were very kind to him,

and he was frequently invited to lunch or dine in the

cabin. He was decidedly of opinion that the presence of

the ladies on board added immensely to the charm of the

voyage. Lady Seymour was extremely kind, especially

to the young officers, and her daughters were most good-

natured.

As they proceeded south, and the weather became

warm, dancing was frequently indulged in on the quarter

deck in the evenings, the band largely contributing to

the enjoyment of everyone. Any spare time they may

have had at their disposal during the day, the youngsters

spent in fishing from the end of the bowsprit for bonita,

dolphins, and other denizens of the tropical seas. Some

times success rewarded their efforts, and a very welcome

addition was made to their breakfasts, but as a rule an

empty bag was the result of their labour. At any rate,

they had all the excitement and anticipation of success

which is incidental to fishing, even at home !

As they approached the Equator, great preparations

were made for the reception of Neptune, for it had been

arranged that the customary ceremony was to be ob

served in full detail.

On the evening before reaching the line, just after
ch. n]           JOINS THE NAVY                          29

dark, a sonorous voice was    "heSahrdip,  apparently a  long
way ahead, hailing the ship:               ahoy ! What   ship
is that ?"

   Amid intense silence Captain Smart from the poop

solemnly answered: "Her Britannic Majesty's ship

Collingwood."    asked:   " Are  any of my  children on
   Neptune then

board?"                                " Yes, several."
                                       to-morrow," said
T" oThwehni,chI  the Captain replied:                    the
                 will come on board

Sea-God.'
   To which the Captain replied: " We shall be happy
to see you."

Neptune then took his departure, apparently on a

blazing tar-barrel, which remained in sight a long time

in the wake of the ship.

  On the following day, Friday, the nth of October,

the Collingwood crossed the line and entered the Southern

Hemisphere. The youngsters were much excited, and

those who perhaps thought they were a little unpopular

with the men were in no slight trepidation regarding

the treatment that might be meted out to them by the

Tritons during the forthcoming ceremony. A large sail

had been rigged up along one side of the main deck,

and had been filled with water to the depth of four or

five feet. When all was ready, the drum and fife band

announced the arrival of the Sea- Potentate. A proces

sion was formed at the fore end of the ship, which,

accompanied by the strains of martial music, marched

aft to the quarter-deck.

First came the bears and seals, inimitably got up. Then

the Tritons attired in coloured bunting, with swabs* round

their waists. These were followed by half a dozen men

representing curious sea-beasts, drawing a car elabor

ately decorated with coloured bunting, on which, in

solemn majesty, sat King Neptune. On his head was

  * A swab is a long bundle of thrumi or unravelled rope-yarns
used in drying the decks of a ship.
30                    JOINS THE NAVY                          [ch.h

a crown ingeniously constructed of tin, and in his hand

he held a trident, or grains,* as a sceptre. He had on a

crimson robe, with swabs hanging as a girdle round his

waist, and his legs were bare. A long flowing beard,

made of rope-yarns, reached down to his waist. Follow
ing close behind came his Queen, the beautiful Amphi-

trite, clad in a lovely white dress, with an elegant lace

cap upon her head; on her mouth were fixed two

rows of sharp iron teeth somewhat similar to those of a
rat-trap. Next came Their Majesties' clerk, accom

panied by the Royal Barber. The former wore a wig

made of oakum in which were stuck a number of quill-

pens; while the latter was provided with a tin pot

containing a horrible concoction of tar, soft soap, and

other abominations, wherewith to lather the faces of the

candidates for initiation prior to being shaved. The

Barber was provided with three different razors all con

structed of hoop iron: No. 1 had a smooth edge, No. 2

had a rough edge, but No. 3 had a serrated edge with
teeth like a saw. The different classes of razors were

used on the victims in accordance with their popu

larity --or otherwise --with the men. There was also a

Doctor in attendance, attached to His Majesty's suite.

The candidates for initiation were only permitted to

remain on deck long enough to witness the arrival of the

procession; they were then summarily driven below

by the Tritons to wait until their presence was required

on deck.

    The Admiral and the ladies viewed the operations

from the poop with much interest and no little amuse

ment. Markham and one or two of his particular

friends were artful enough to find out beforehand the

men who had been told off to represent the characters of

cthaeutiBonarboef r"  and the   "Dtohcetsoer,imapnodrtahnatd   taken the pre
                      squaring                                functionaries, so

that they might be let off easily. When Markham's

   * A species of harpoon, having several barbed points, used for
striking dolphins, etc.
ch.n]                    JOINS THE NAVY                             31

turn came, he was brought on deck and formally pre

sented to Amphitrite, who, to his consternation, em

braced him warmly. But in doing so she carefully

avoided touching him with her iron teeth ! The Doctor

then approached and felt his pulse, and, remarking that

he did not require any physic, turned him over to the

aBpaprbliecar;tiwonhoopf aasnsyed"  No. 1 razor over  his face without the
                                    shaving soap."     He was then tilted

backwards into            the sail  full  of water, seized          "bydeolincieouosf
tdhueckaintgten"daanntd  Tritons,   who    gave him one

                         then released him. After having suc

cessfully passed through the ordeal, he was at liberty

to do what he liked and to take part in the fun.

The most unpopular person on board appeared to be

one of the ship's corporals,* who probably by the rigor

ous performance of his duties had made himself some

what objectionable to the ship's company. Amphitrite

gave him a very vicious bite with her iron teeth, the

Doctor stuffed into his mouth the most indescribable

filth, which  he was pleased              "  to call medicine,      and the
Barber was    lavish with his                 shaving soap."        Needless

to say, he was operated on with              "Nod.iss3ipraatzeodr,  the instru
ment whose edge resembled a                                         saw," and

he was half drowned by the Tritons when they got him

in the sail. The ceremonies terminated at about noon,

when Neptune was triumphantly drawn round the upper

deck in his car, and took his departure from the ship.

We have purposely described this function at some

length so that the reader may gain a slight conception

of what was a very ordinary custom on board an English
man-of-war at that period. In these practical and some

what prosaic days (at any rate before the outbreak of the
war) it might be regarded as a nonsensical amusement,
not altogether harmonising with the interests of disci

pline. But it must not be forgotten that in those earlier

days ships were very often two or three months at sea

at a stretch ; and such an incident as the crossing of the

              * A member of the ship's police.
32  JOINS THE NAVY  [ch.11

 Equator, with all its attendant ancient customs and

 ceremonies, was always looked forward to with pleasur
 able anticipation, even by those who were about to take
 part for the first time in this antiquated nautical rite.

 It must also be remembered that every soul in the ship

was interested, and even associated, in the successful

conduct of the pageant. It was a diversion that tended

very materially to relieve the monotony of a long sea-
voyage, and it seldom had any ill effect upon discipline.

    On the 22nd of October the ship entered the magnifi

cent harbour of Rio de Janeiro. It was a lovely day, and

everyone was on deck admiring the glorious scenery
presented by this most beautiful of harbours. On the
port hand as they entered was the precipitous Sugar
 Loaf Mountain, while to the southward rose a curious
peak known by the name of Lord Hood's Nose, in con
sequence, presumably, of its resemblance to the nasal
protuberance of that distinguished Admiral. In the
near distance, apparently dominating the town, rose the
majestic Mount Corcovado. The bay is deservedly
celebrated for its loveliness, and is regarded not only as
one of the most beautiful, but also one of the most

secure and spacious anchorages in the world.

   The sound of the cable running through the hawse-

pipe, as the anchor was dropped, had hardly ceased before
Markham and three or four of his messmates were on
their way to the shore. There was no changing into
plain clothes -- such a transformation was not even
dreamt of in the days before the service went to the dogs
-- but, just as they were, dressed in their everyday
uniform, with trousers that were only sufficiently white

to comply with the dress regulations then in force, and
possibly with not too much money in their pockets, they
jumped into a boat and were rowed to the landing-place.
After visiting the cathedral and other places of interest,
eager for a jaunt, they hired horses and proceeded
to ascend Mount Corcovado. This was successfully

achieved, although not without difficulty, for the horses
had to be abandoned some distance below the summit,
ch. n]   JOINS THE NAVY                            33

and the last part of the ascent was perforce made on

foot. On reaching the summit their exertions were

rewarded by a magnificent view of the surrounding

country, which lay spread out as on a map at their

feet. Their descent, however, was somewhat accelerated

by a heavy shower of tropical rain.
   They spent ten very happy days at Rio, seeing all

there was to be seen in the town, and riding about

the country to their hearts' content. On leaving,

they encountered very heavy weather, but the Colling-

wood proved an excellent sailer, and, apart from the

usual discomforts of a gale of wind, they had little to

complain of. A course was shaped for the Falkland

Islands, and as they proceeded to the southward the

weather became appreciably colder, and they made the

acquaintance of the mighty albatross, the different kinds

of petrels, the pretty black and white Cape pigeons, and

other sea-b1rds indigenous to the Southern Ocean.

Gales of wind accompanied by heavy seas do not add

to the comfort of life on board a ship. To walk the

deck even is a hazardous exercise ; while any attempt to
repose stretched out on the lockers in the gunroom often

involves a disagreeable fall to the deck ! Added to
these troubles is the indescribable " fugginess" prevailing

between-decks, owing to the lack of fresh air, all ports

and hatchways being, of course, tightly closed. Mark-

ham, however, did not appear to be affected by these

discomforts. He was a first-rate sailor, and seemed

rather to enjoy a gale of wind than otherwise. He was

indefatigable in his endeavours to acquire professional

knowledge, and was intensely keen in observing all the

precautions that were adopted in order to make the ship

as easy and snug as the adverse circumstances would

permit.

   On the 17th of  November, 1844, they arrived at the
Falkland Islands.
                    It was blowing very fresh at the time,

and as the wind was dead ahead, they were obliged to

beat up a rather narrow channel to the anchorage off

Fort William . The settlement situated at the head of the
34                 JOINS THE NAVY                          [ch. n

harbour was not a very large one, the inhabitants con

sisting only of the Governor, a company of sappers and

miners under the command of an officer of the Royal

Engineers, and a few farmers and other settlers with

their families.

    Markham was one of the first to land. The spirit of

exploration had already taken firm hold of him. He was

accompanied by several of his messmates. They suc

ceeded in borrowing the naval instructor's gun, arrang

ing among themselves that they were to shoot in turns.

They had been informed that the island abounded with

wild horses and cattle, besides wild-duck, teal, snipe, and

rabbits, and they looked forward to a good day's sport,

with the prospect of a rich and varied bag. They were

also accompanied by the Admiral's dog, but with or

without permission is not stated. The first signs of

animal life that came under their notice on landing

was a large crowd of penguins, which advanced steadily

and solemnly against them in an unbroken phalanx.

They tried to drive them off, but without success. The

Admiral's dog was much too frightened to be of any

assistance, and they were obliged to beat an ignominious

retreat.  After    some little time they observed          "infetrhoe
distance  what     they described afterwards as a

cious-looking calf." This was successfully stalked and

slain. Elated at their success, they carried the carcase

triumphantly on board as evidence of their prowess.

    The ship proceeded on her voyage the same evening,

but just as they were getting under weigh a boat came

alongside with a very irate sergeant of sappers in it.

In a state of intense excitement, he shouted out that

the calf which had been shot was a tame one belonging
to the Governor, and he demanded that it should be

immediately handed over to him. This was a sad ter

mination to their trip on shore, for not only did they

lose what they expected would provide them with fresh

food for the next two or three days, but the unfortunate

ypouutnignsttoer"  wwhaotchshoatndthweaatcnhim"aflowr aas  punished by being
                                                           week. This meant
ch.n]      JOINS THE NAVY                        35

being kept on deck every alternate four hours, day and

night, for seven days.

Very stormy weather was experienced after leaving

the Falkland Islands, and one misfortune followed

another in rapid succession. The first was the loss of

one of their men, who accidentally fell overboard and

was drowned. This was the third event of the kind

that had occurred since leaving England. The next

was a somewhat serious accident to Markham him

self. Just as he was attempting to get into his ham
mock, the ship gave a tremendous lurch, and, losing his

hold, he was flung backwards into the boatswain's store

room, a fall of about 12 feet. He was picked up uncon

scious and placed in Lieutenant Quin's cabin, who, with
great good nature, had at once placed it entirely at his

young friend's disposal. He did not recover conscious

ness until the following morning. Fortunately, no

serious injury was sustained, and he was only on the

sick-list for a week, when he returned to duty. He was

well looked after by his numerous friends on board, and

received constant visits from the ladies.

These untoward occurrences culminated on the night

of the 4th of December, when the mainyard was carried
away in a heavy gale. This necessitated the reduction
of all sail on the mainmast. It was
                                     ftooun"d finsehce"ssita,ryantdo
get the injured spar on deck, so as

render it serviceable again. This was no easy matter,

with the ship pitching and rolling in a heavy sea, and

with insufficient sail set to keep her steady. However,

the men worked willingly, every man put his shoulder

to the wheel, and the following evening the temporary

repairs were completed, the yard swayed up to its proper

place, and the sail bent and set. A very creditable per

formance.

On the 15th of December, after a somewhat eventful
and tempestuous voyage, they anchored in Valparaiso

Bay, glad to reach port and indulge in a real rest after

their turbulent month at sea. On arrival, Admiral

Seymour assumed command of the Pacific Station.
CHAPTER III

THE PACIFIC STATION

Valpara1so in those days was, as it still is, the principal
                                    seIvterpeoss"esnsoesrthaerfa"irliys
seaport of the Republic  of Chile.
good anchorage except    when a
blowing, when ships invariably have to put to sea. The

approach of one of these storms is generally indicated

by a heavy swell setting into the bay, and this gives the

vessels at anchor in the harbour sufficient warning to

put to sea in time. The excessive depth of water in the

bay is one of its chief disadvantages as an anchorage.

The town is prettily situated along the coast, and has

for a background the distant range of the Cordilleras

of the Andes, with the snow-covered peak of Aconcagua

rising above the ridge. The lesser mountain, called the

Compaiia of Quillota (which, by the way, strongly re
sembles Mount Aconcagua in shape), occupies the middle

distance. The cliffs which fringe the bay rise abruptly

from the sea, and the town has the appearance of nest

ling at their base. There are three hills at the back of

the town, much frequented by our sailors when they

have leave to go on shore, named by them the Fore,

Main, and Mizen Tops. These are literally covered

with grog-shops, which may perhaps account for their

attraction to the bluejackets.

When Markham was at Valparaiso the place was

replete with reminiscences of Lord Cochrane. In 1821,

with a small force specially organised by him and

under his immediate command, he paralysed the move

ments of the Spanish Viceroy at Lima, thus practically

securing the independence of Chile. Many of Lord

                         36
CH.n1]            THE PACIFIC STATION                                       37

Cochrane 's officers married Chilian wives and settled

in the country. To this fact may be attributed the

large number of English names borne by distinguished

Chilians, such as Williams, Edwards, Simpson, and

Lynch. The contractor who provided the Collingwood

and other English men-of-war with supplies during their

stay at Valparaiso was an old Scotsman named Mac-

fMfvaeiasrllliroaokwnnhesa",,mbwwuhhtsooahyissshuapbdcpioslnciebucedeitersnntihn"pegumcorsuhewlidrmit,hounn"dlmyehroebsetLwonaerisxbdcbelaelCldeofncinthaertapntorheolde.

sides ; inside they were like marble."

The ship's stay at Valparaiso was most enjoyable.

The midshipmen had plenty of leave, of which they

took the fullest advantage; and Markham, being a uni

versal favourite, was frequently taken on shore by one

or other of the wardroom officers. Lieutenants Quin
and Peel were particularly good to him in this respect ; in

fact, they invariably showed him the greatest kindness.

On one occasion he was out riding with the last-named

friend, when, he relates, his horse suddenly stopped dead,
its legs wide apart, as if its rider had lassoed a bullock.

The immediate result was that Markham shot over its

head; but, fortunately, he was none the worse for his

fall. Proceeding, they came to a plain some twelve miles

across, bounded by a range of lofty mountains. They

set off at full gallop, urging the horses to their utmost

speed, when again his horse stopped short, and again

was he shot over its head. After remounting, he per

suaded Peel to try to pick up his handkerchief from the

ground when at full gallop. The result was a fall for

"Pefeull,l  and   h"isfohroVrsaelp, abreaiinsgo,  freed   of its rider,  started off
            pelt                                   hotly   pursued by    Markham.

After a long and provoking chase, he succeeded in head

ing the runaway, and eventually caught it and brought

it back to its rider. With daily incidents of a somewhat
similar character, it is not to be wondered that the time

at Valparaiso passed all too quickly.

                                                                         4
38      THE PACIFIC STATION                         [ch.n1

    Meanwhile the ship had been thoroughly refitted, the

mainyard had been repaired in an efficient manner, the

rigging overhauled and set up, and all defects made good.
On the 13th of January the Seymours, having rented a
nice house on shore, left the ship, much to the regret of

all the officers ; and two days later the Collingwood put

to sea bound for Arica. The Admiral hoisted his flag

in the Cormorant (a steam-sloop), with the object of visit
ing all the intermediate ports between Valparaiso and

Arica.

    On the 21st of January they obtained their first

glimpse of the dreary coast of Peru with its rocky cliffs

and sandy wastes, and the following day they anchored

off the port of Arica . The surrounding country presented
a barren and uninviting appearance. Here the Admiral
rejoined them. A small dance was given on board, and

several Peruvian ladies came off to it. Markham found

that his perseverance in making himself acquainted

with the Spanish language met with its due reward, for

he succeeded in talking with tolerable fluency to his

partners in their own tongue.
    Their next anchorage was Callao,the seaport of Lima,

the capital of Peru. From the bay could be seen the

numerous towers of Lima, and beyond these were the

high peaks of the Cordilleras of the Andes, some of them

reaching into the clouds. The view filled Markham

wofift,hladyelitghhet,"foCrittyheoref  before him,  only a short distance
                                       Kings," the  far-famed capital of

the Great Spanish Viceroys, about which he had recently

been reading with intense interest in Robertson's narra

tive of Pizarro's career. He longed to rush off and see for

himself all the wondrous sights in this most wonderful

city, the subject of his thoughts by day and of his

dreams by night. But he had to curb his impatience

for a few days; his duties had to be attended to on

board, and for a time he was unable to obtain the leave

that was necessary to enable him to visit Lima.

    Mention has already been made of the great friend
ch.1n]     THE PACIFIC STATION                                     39

ship that had sprung up between Markham and Lieu
tenant Peel. It was an important one, for it was a

friendship that did much to shape Markham 's character,

and one that exerted a beneficial influence on his after

life. During the long night watches many were the

talks they had together as they paced up and down the

forecastle. Peel's view was that an officer in the Navy

should devote all his talents and all his energies to the

Service; that his own interests, his aims and studies,

should be subservient to the Navy. But he held that a

good naval officer, besides being a good sailor, must be

well informed, especially in history, geography, and

"poPeatrrayd. iseHeLosretc,"ombmeceanudseed,   Markham to read     Milton's
                                                                   grandest
                                              he said, "it is the
poem in our language, and it is the richest storehouse

of good English words and phrases." He also advised

him to read all the most memorable voyages and travels,

and impressed upon him that a naval officer, who kept

his eyes open, possessed unequalled opportunities of

becoming a sound geographer. He frequently dilated

upon the rules of conduct which from the first he had

established for his own guidance in the Navy.

In these conversations there was never any assump

tion of superiority, no attempt to be didactic, only an

eager desire to impart useful advice to one for whom he

entertained a sincere regard which amounted almost to

affection. That it was so accepted, and appreciated, by

his young friend is evidenced by the following extract

from Markham 's journal in reference to his mentor:

" His noble thoughts and good advice sank into my
heart gradually as the golden fruit of much converse, for
the most part light and merry. We often discussed
Service questions, and he explained           in detail   numerous
points in seamanship and gunnery                         had failed
                                              which I
            At other times he dwelt upon the life-
to grasp.
stones of  naval worthies, discussing their respective
merits and their battles. He also talked of friend
ships: how they were formed, and how they ought to
be maintained.'
40          THE PACIFIC STATION  [ch. h1

    These conversations with an officer so much his senior,

and for whom he had such a high regard, made a deep

impression upon young Markham, who was of a most

impressionable nature; and his distress may well be

imagined when he was informed, by Peel himself, that the

Admiral was about to send him to England as the bearer

of important dispatches to the Admiralty, and that he

would not, in all probability, return to the Collingwood.

He was to be transferred to the America, put on shore

on the coast, and ordered to find his way across Mexico,

arrangements being made for an English man-of-war to

meet him on the Atlantic side. He left on the 16th of

February, 1845.           he had bidden him farewell :
   Markham writes, after  I went down into one of the
" My heart is like lead.

cabins, and shed bitter tears." He regarded this part

ing as the turning-point of his career. Peel was the

one man to whom he invariably looked for support and

advice, and he had a great influence for good over the

young cadet. In after-years Markham frequently as

serted that, although his zeal for the Service would never

under any circumstances have abated, still, the inten

sity of his interest in the Navy considerably diminished

after the departure of Lieutenant Peel. He continued,

however, to be as zealous as ever, and he strove to carry

out his duties in a manner that he knew would have

given pleasure to his friend. He was a boy who really

needed such a guide, and he felt that without him it

would be difficult to avoid going astray. He ceased all

attempts to conquer his temper and his self-will; in

other words, he neglected to take any interest in him

self. His friend had been called away to fulfil a glorious

destiny, and he felt hurt at not being able to share it

with him.*

   * On his arrival in England with the despatches, Peel was at once
promoted to the rank of Commander. He was appointed to the
command of the Daring brig, in which he distinguished himself in
the West Indies, and was promoted to the rui1k of Captain. His
CH.m]         THE PACIFIC STATION                                            41

   It is probable that this assumed loss of interest in the

Navy (although he was still as eager as ever to make
himself thoroughly proficient in everything connected
with his duties, and did his best to maintain discipline
so far as in him lay) was caused in a great measure by
the severity of the punishments that were inflicted on
the men for what, to him, appeared to be but slight
breaches of discipline. The practice of corporal punish
ment was carried to excess in those days, and the in
fliction of it was most repugnant to him. Although he
had, in common with every officer and man belonging

to the ship, to be present on those lamentable occasions,
he always placed a considerable distance between him

self and those who were suffering, so that he could
neither see nor hear what was going on. Perhaps it is
not too much to assert that it was in great measure
due to the severity of the punishments inflicted on the
men in the ships in which he served, that Markham

retired from the Service to which he was really endeared
and to which he was so proud to belong. He always

regarded corporal punishment, as then administered,

cruel and barbarous ; and no one was more pleased than
he when informed that flogging in the Navy had been

geographical instincts led him to turn to African exploration. He
reached Khartoum, and penetrated as far as El Obeid, when a

serious illness compelled him to return to England. In, 1852 he
was appointed to the command of the Diamond, and was sent out

to the Black Sea on the outbreak of the war with Russia. He was

landed with the Naval Brigade during the siege of Sebastopol,

when his heroic and distinguished conduct in the trenches earned
for him the C.B. and the Victoria Cross. In 1856 he was appointed
to the Shannon in the East Indies, and commanded the Naval

Brigade that was sent up to Lucknow during the Indian Mutiny.
For his services he was created a K.C.B., but, alas ! he was attacked

by smallpox,   and died  awtritCeas:wnp"oVreeryin   April, 1858, at the age  of
thirty-four.  Markham                              few men have crowded      so

many glorious achievements into so brief a space of time. Still
fewer have done so much good by their example and their influence.

He was the perfect model of what a British naval officer ought to

be."
42  THE PACIFIC STATION  [ch. 1n

practically abolished. But, alas ! that did not take place
until many years after he had severed his active con

nection with the Service.

   It was a fortuitous chance that, on the day following

the departure of Lieutenant Peel, Markham obtained per
mission to go up to Lima in company with Mr. Johnson,
the Naval Instructor; and thus his thoughts were tem
porarily diverted from the sorrow he felt at the loss of
his friend. Three of his messmates, among whom was

young Goodenough, made up the party. Railway ser
vice between Callao and Lima had not then been intro

duced, and they had to travel up in the ordinary omnibus
that plied between the two towns. After depositing at
an hotel the small amount of baggage they had brought
with them, they started off to see everything that could
be seen in this most interesting city. Markham, by
virtue, possibly, of having already written a history of
the country when he was a boy,* acted as cicerone to the
party. Every place of importance or of historical in
terest, we may be sure, was visited. On going into the

cathedral they found High Mass was being celebrated,
at which the acting President of the Republic was pre
sent, attended by a numerous staff of officers and Court
functionaries. The Archbishop of Lima was the cele

brant. A strong military force, consisting of about a

thousand men, was drawn up in the plaza as a guard in
the event of any disturbance taking place, a not un
likely incident in the city of Lima at that time. During
their peregrinations they crossed the River Rimac by an
excellent stone bridge, and explored the suburb of San
Lazaro. They also visited a pulperia (small tavern),
where they were regaled with a delicious Peruvian
drink called chicha.

   Next morning they continued their inspection of the
city. They went to see the Church of Santo Domingo,
where there is a beautiful recumbent marble statue of
Santa Rosa, the patron saint of Lima. Further afield

                                               * See p. 10.
ca. 1n]  THE PACIFIC STATION                                  43

they visited the great cemetery outside the city walls.

The gates were locked, but bars and bolts had to give

way   to the vigorous efforts  of the midshipmen,    and  "thtehey
were  speedily forced open.      Markham states    that

system of interment was curious, and well repaid the
visit." They were also much interested in seeing a

flock of llamas, which are the principal beasts of burden
in that country. The museum containing the Inca anti

quities was not neglected, nor were the series of portraits

of the Viceroys of Peru collected under the same roof.

Thence to the crypt of the cathedral to see the remains

of Francisco Pizarro, the conqueror of Peru. The skele
ton with the skin dried on it was lying in a niche in the

wall. It is related that one of the party tore off a joint
of the fore-finger and took it on board the Collingwood.

Subsequently it was made into the handle of a silver

seal, with the word K1smet engraved on it. They re

turned to the ship that evening, having spent two most

interesting days at Lima.

Markham paid many more visits to the city, and was

never so happy as when engaged in his researches in the

history of the ancient Incas, which always had an extra

ordinary fascination for him, even to the end of his

eventful life. He enjoyed visiting the banks of the

Rimac,    and in   cionm"pafinsyhingw,ithandsomspeeaorfinghiscammeesrsomnaetse,*s
passed   the time

roasting potatoes, and bathing." Having been warned

of the danger attached to this particular locality, of

being robbed and stripped by the truculent negroes of

the neighbouring haciendas, they hid some old trousers

under large stones, so that, if they were deprived of

their clothing, they would be able to return to Callao

with some show of decency ! Occasionally Markham

would borrow the Naval Instructor's gun, and set off

in quest of doves, sandpipers, and other birds that fre
quented the valley of the Rimac. But he never really

cared for shooting as a sport ; his repugnance to taking

* Small species of Crustacea found in South American rivers.
44  THE PACIFIC STATION                                                                                              [ch. ni

life not unnaturally interfered with his keenness in this

direction. What he loved was the outdoor life un

trammelled by naval discipline or quarter-deck con

ventionalities, free to do as he liked and responsible to

no one for what he did. He was always a great reader,

and, thanks to the Admiral and other officers in the ship

who placed their books at his disposal, he was able to

ghLaoravsteti,f"ypreHhfiaeslrlrc'esrda"vsinFtagrayfgionmrgeliontentsra,b"royaarnkdndoawtnhldeedrgVeeoa.ydainggeHse"  seems to
                                                                                                                     Paradise
                                                                                                                     of Dam-

pier, Burney, Cook, Vancouver, and others, even to

visiting his beloved banks of the Rimac.

    After short visits to different places along the west
coast, the ship returned to Valparaiso, where, it will be
remembered, the Admiral had left his family. Mark-

ham was invited to spend a week with them in their

house. To his great delight, he was able to accept,
"Itand a most pleasant week it was. They were all very
good to him; as he himself says,          was so pleasant

to be in an English home so far away from England,

with all the home comforts and associations, everybody

so kind and agreeable." The days passed all too quickly.

He accompanied the young ladies wherever they went,

making the acquaintance of various Chilian families.

Among those whom he met in this manner was the

prima donna, Signorina Rossi, whose friendship he re

tained until he left the station, besides other members

of the operatic company then performing in Valparaiso.

A grand ball was given by the Admiral and officers of

the Collingwood, and a very minute description of the

a"rrNaontgheimngenttos bcearcroiemdpaoruetdonwibthoairtd,"ishgeivwerniteins,h"ishjaodurenvael.r

been seen on board a man-of-war at Valparaiso or any

where else. It was a perfect scene of enchantment."

After a pleasant fortnight at Valparaiso, they returned
to Callao, arriving at that port on the 7th of May, 1845.
   On their arrival, they found that diplomatic rela

tions between the Republic of Peru and Great Britain
ch. m]        THE PACIFIC STATION                                                45

were much strained. It appeared that the Prefect of

Tacna had very grossly insulted the British Vice-

Consul at Arica. Fortunately, in Sir George Seymour

we had a clear-headed, prompt, and vigorous man

of action. He demanded an immediate apology, to

gether with the instant supersession of the Peruvian

official. The usual subterfuges were resorted to by the

Peruvian authorities; but the Admiral was not to be

trifled with, and the President of Peru was informed

that, unless a successor was sent by the next steamer

to relieve the Prefect at Tacna, hostilities would begin.

In the meantime the English men-of-war in harbour

made all the necessary preparations for immediate action .
In the Collingwood all the cabin guns were mounted and

rpilgagceindg,inwetrheei"r  proper  "potrotsp, retvheentstathyse,ir  backstays,   and
                            snaked                                   falling on  deck
if severed by gunfire, and the ships were moved to within

gunshot of the castle and other fortifications. Needless

to say, all on board were wildly excited at the prospect

of a fight.

  Just before the departure of the steamer to Tacna,

however, the President, General Don Ramon Castilla,

prudently yielded, and our terms were accepted in full.

Friendly relations were completely restored, and on the

following Sunday the President visited the Collingwood

to express his regret that the action of his official at

Tacna should for a moment have impaired the amicable

relations that had always existed between the two

countries. He was received on board with full honours :

a salute of twenty-one guns was fired and the yards were

manned. It is stated that the President's only com

plaint to the British Minister was that the Admiral's

Flag Lieutenant,            when    he   wsatrseesten"t   to deliver the         ulti
matum, marched              down    the                  with himself on          one

side, and his sword on the other, as if all Lima belonged

to him." This can easily be imagined by those who had

the honour and pleasure of the acquaintance of the Flag

Lieutenant !
46            THE PACIFIC STATION                             [ch. nt

    The President on this occasion was attired in a gor

geous uniform, and wore an enormous pair of cavalry

boots. These attracted so much attention that the

"offOicledrs    of the  Collingwood forthwith nicknamed him
              Boots,"   by which name he was always known

thereafter on board !

  It may perhaps be of interest to hear how St. Patrick's

Day, or rather Night, was celebrated in the gunroom

mess of a British man-of-war on a foreign station seventy

years ago. The proceedings were organised by the
Senior Assistant Surgeon, Dr. Nicholls, and carried out
under his special supervision. He was an Irishman,

and is described by Markham as a tall, good-looking man

with bushy auburn whiskers, a very good fellow. We are
told that the entire mess sat round the gunroom table,

at the head of which was Dr. Nicholls. In front of him

were three large soup tureens and an abundant supply

of the necessary ingredients for the brewing of punch,

of which the doctor had the reputation of being the best
compounder in the Navy. In due course of time thirty-

four tumblers containing the steaming and insidious

beverage were passed round the table, one for each
                                                                by Dr.
person.       sTinhgeingpro"ceKeadtihnlgesen  then commenced  This was
Nicholls                                       Mavourneen."   as " Tom

followed      "bayndmoatnhyerso. f  Dibdin's songs, such       helped at
Bowling                             Those who did not sing
any rate to swell the choruses. At 9.30 the Sergeant of
Marines poked his head into the gunroom and reported

three bells, and demanded, in accordance with the regu

lations of the Service, that the lights be extinguished.

As this would effectually put a stop to the conviviality

of the evening, a request was sent up to the Commander

that lights might be specially granted for another hour.

The request, however, was refused, and the lights were

ordered to be put out at once. It was an order that had
to be complied with; so the doctor addressed a few

well chosen words to his messmates, apologising for the

unceremonious interruption, and concluding with the
ch. m3                 THE PACIFIC STATION                      47

remark that, as the order must be obeyed, they would

sing the last songs in the dark. The tumblers were
refilled, the Sergeant received a glass of punch, the
lliagsht tssonwge,re"
                       put out, and the hilarity continued.     The
                       Come, landlord, fill the flowing bowl,"  was

sung in  profound       darkness;  a"t  its conclusion  they all
retired  to their      hammocks,        after spending  a very

pleasant evening."
                         CHAPTER IV

                        THE SANDWICH ISLANDS

After a stay at Callao lasting over a couple of months,

the Admiral decided, for political and other reasons, to
pay a visit to Tahiti and the Sandwich Islands. The
prospect of making personal acquaintance with these
lovely islands of the tropical Pacific was hailed with
delight, especially by the younger officers in the ship,
who were getting somewhat weary of their long spell

off the coasts of Chile and Peru. On the 16th of July,

1845, the Collingwood, accompanied by the corvette
Modeste, sailed from Callao, and, favoured by a fine
fresh trade wind, made excellent progress towards Tahiti.
The wind was aft, the yards were square, studding sails
on both sides were set, and the ship was making seven
to eight knots an hour. Everybody was in good spirits,
happy and contented, and Markham was thoroughly
enjoying the voyage.

    He was much interested in the study of navigation,
so closely associated as it is with astronomy. He
loved taking celestial observations during his night
watches, and he devoted much time and attention to
navigation, nautical astronomy, and trigonometry. He
strove to remember and to act upon all the good advice
given to him by his friend Lieutenant Peel, and did all
in his power to behave in such a way as would have
pleased him, especially in attending zealously to every
branch of his professional duties. He also arranged for
himself a regular course of reading, perusing only those
books from which he could acquire good and useful
knowledge. Yet he always found plenty of time for
skjdarking !

                                                               48
ch.1v]        THE SANDWICH ISLANDS                                                    49

    Sunday, the 20th of July, was his fifteenth birthday.
He dined that day in the wardroom as the guest of one
of
to  the wardroom officers,                 "anldastafdteorgwawrdastchk."e*pt  the six
    eight watch, called the                                                   Every

thing seemed bright and happy, yet even then dark

clouds were gathering above Markham's head, which

were fated to burst before the lapse of many days.

   It appears that the Naval Instructor had worked out

a lunar observation (as an example for the midshipmen
to adopt) in the details of which Markham unfortunately
detected a mistake. It was not in the simple addition

or subtraction of the figures, or in the taking out of a

logarithm, but in having made use, erroneously, of a

printed table which was not the right one. Markham

stupidly made a joke of it, which not unnaturally made

the Naval Instructor very cross, and this ill-humour

increased as time went on. Every Saturday it was the

rule of the Captain to inspect the log-books of the

junior officers to see that they were correctly written

and up-to-date, and to receive reports of the general

conduct and behaviour of the midshipmen during the

current week. On this particular occasion the Naval

Instructor reported that Markham's conduct was ex

tremely unsatisfactory. He further stated that he was

very conceited, and that he was at times most im

   * The watches on board   ship           are divided during the twenty-four
hours into five watches of  four           hours each--namely, the forenoon

watch (commencing             at 8 a.m.), the  twafotern"odoong,  the first,  "thearemidfrdolem,
and the morning             watches. The                          watches

4 p.m.   to 6 p.m.,          and from 6    p.m. to   8arpe.m". curT-thaeileldatt"erI  are so
called  facetiously         because these   watches                                    Some

assert that they are so named in consequence of the deck being

left during these hours to the charge of a dog, while the skipper and

mates go below for rest and their evening meal. The object of

splitting up the period from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. into two dog-watches,
is to divide                twenty-four hours into   an uneven number (5) of
              the           day was divided into an  equal number of watches,
watches. If   the

each of four hours' duration, the officers and men would be keeping
                                                                  To obviate this the
a'lwdoagy-swatthcehessam"e   watches each day  and  night.
                            were instituted.
50   THE SANDWICH ISLANDS                                       [ch. 1v

pertinent. He added that Markham had called the

"audtohnokr eyof"ainboaokmowsht icohffehnesivheadwaleyn.t  him to read a
                                                           Poor Markham

was aghast at hearing these unfounded accusations, and

endeavoured to explain that the book in question was
not lent to him by the Naval Instructor, but by one of

his  messmates,  and  whoe rekxpalsainaed"  that when he        designated
the   author of  the                        donkey," the
                                                                Naval In

structor cordially agreed with him.

   The Captain, however,    would           "noTthilsistwenill  to any ex
planation or excuses, but,  saying                              never do,"

ordered him to be punished by standing on the poop

from eight o'clock in the morning until sunset. Mark

ham was furious at what he considered the injustice

of his punishment. But his cup of bitterness was not

yet filled, for a few days after this occurrence he learnt

that Carr, one of the captains of the maintop who had

been disrated by the Captain for drunkenness at Callao,

was to be flogged the next morning for a repetition of the

offence. Filled with uncontrollable remorse, and carried

away by his extreme sensitiveness, without thinking of

the breach of discipline that he was committing, he impul

sively ran into the Captain's cabin, neglecting even the
formality of knocking at the door. Full of pity for the

poor man who had, in his opinion, been sentenced to so

cruel a punishment, he took all the blame on his own

shoulders, telling the Captain that he (Markham) had
given Carr a bottle of rum at Spithead which must have

been his ruin, and piteously pleaded forgiveness for

the man. The Captain, as may well be supposed, was

very angry at this intrusion,    "foHlloowweddarbeyyosuucchomaen   un
heard-of request, and replied :                                   into

my cabin without knocking, and with such nonsense !

Leave the cabin immediately."

Carr received thirty-six lashes the next morning, and

Markham went about with hatred in his heart and clouds

on his brow. His friends Sherard Osborn and Good-

enough did their best to soothe his ruffled spirit, and
ch. 1v]        THE SANDWICH ISLANDS                  51

endeavoured to bring about a reconciliation with the

Naval Instructor, but all to no effect. His veracity had

been impugned, his honour had been called in question,

he had been unjustly punished, and he declared that he

hated the Service, he hated the Captain of the ship, and

he would never speak to the Naval Instructor again

except on duty; that he despised him, would never

forgive him, and would never enter his cabin again.
His anger at the treatment he had received knew no

bounds. He candidly admitted in after-years that he

was at that time the most mutinous person in the ship.

He purposely carried out his drills and instruction in a

slovenly manner, and when sent for by the Gunnery

Lieutenant he refused to come. Goodenough even

tually persuaded him to obey, and when Lieutenant

Bathurst asked him why he was so long, he would not

deign to reply. The Lieutenant then gave him a single

stick, and, taking another, proceeded to fence with him.

sSaeiedin: g"  that Markham    was careless and indifferent, he
                              defend yourself better, and show
               If you do not
the proper guards when I call them, I shall hit you."

He would not show the guard when called, but instead

hit the Gunnery Lieutenant as hard as he could over

the shoulder. This was reported to the Captain, and

he was placed under arrest. The Captain informed him

that he would make a special report of his conduct in
writing to the Commander-in-Chief, as it was far too

serious a case for him to deal with. Lieutenant Bathurst
was terribly perturbed about it all, and eventually per

suaded the Commander to intervene with the Captain.
The result was that Markham was ordered to return to

duty, and nothing more was said or done about it.

The harshness of the treatment he had received at

the hands of the Captain and the Naval Instructor,

however, rankled in his mind for a long time, and gave
him a distaste for the Navy which was very real. He
was a boy that could only be managed by tact and

sympathetic kindness ; severity did not appeal to him in
52      THE SANDWICH ISLANDS                       |ch. 1v

any way, and after the unpleasant incidents to which we

have alluded he felt very unhappy and forlorn. The

wardroom officers were, however, most kind to him, and

several, including Mr. Wemyss and Beauchamp Sey
mour, gave him the free run of their cabins. The

former officer had shelves put up for his young friend's

books,   and the latter told him  to come and sit in    "hisI
cabin   every afternoon, adding    characteristically:
shall kick you out whenever I want the cabin to myself;
                                                    But, as Mark-
at other times, you  are always  "weWlchoamte."is  a palace with
ham remarked at      the time,

a sore heart and a discontented mind ?"
    Arriving off Tahiti, the Admiral and his staff proceeded

on shore, leaving the Collingwood outside cruising under

easy sail off the harbour, but within signal distance of

the shore. When the Captain was keeping his own table,

which only occurred when the Admiral was away, it was

his invariable custom to invite the midshipman of the

morning watch to breakfast with him. When it came to

Markham's turn, and the steward approached him to

announce that breakfast was ready, he sent a message

begging to be excused. A few minutes afterwards the

officer of the watch sent for him, and informed him that
it was the Captain's orders that he was to breakfast with

him, and that he was to go in at once. He had to go,

but with a very bad grace and a look of great discon-

ment. The Captain, however, received him with a

grim smile, piled up his plate with the good things on

the table, and spoke so kindly about the wisest way to

take things, even if they should be disagreeable (with

out, however, alluding in any way to recent incidents),

that his heart was touched ; and he went out of the cabin

with a much more friendly feeling towards his Captain,

and a conviction that, in punishing him as he did, he

only intended to carry out what he considered to be

his duty. This made his mind more at ease, and as a

consequence he became less discontented.

    The Admiral having rejoined, the Collingwood pro
ch. 1v]  THE SANDWICH ISLANDS  53

ceeded to the Sandwich Islands without affording the
officers an opportunity of landing at Tahiti, much to

their disappointment. It was very provoking to be

so many days in sight of this beautiful island, with its
coast fringed with cocoanut-trees and the distant moun
tains covered to their summits with forest, without being
able to pay it a visit. They were, however, in a measure
compensated for this disappointment by their proximity
to the harbour, whence they were able to obtain an
immense quantity of luscious tropical fruit and vegetables,
such as bananas, cheri moyas, bread-fruit, oranges,
yams, etc., which were sent off to them as presents.

   During this cruise Markham became somewhat more
settled ; but the unfortunate occurrences which gave him

so much pain and distress during the early part of the
cruise caused a veritable revolution in his thoughts and
feelings. He brooded much over what he considered
the unjust treatment that had been meted out to him,
and the tyrannical way in which (in his opinion) punish
ment generally was administered. New places and new
scenes, however, served in a great measure to distract
his attention from his own troubles, and it was with a
real feeling of pleasure that he rushed on deck to feast
his eyes on the beautiful island of Hawaii, as they sailed
up to the anchorage in Byron's Bay on the 1oth of Sep
tember. High above on the hills bright cascades were
falling over the rocks into the sea, green lawns extended
in all directions at the bases of the hills dotted with
clumps of cocoanut and bread-fruit trees, while the grace
ful banana and other tropical plants were a refreshing
sight to those who had gazed on nothing but the bound
less ocean for so many days.

   Immediately the ship cast anchor she was surrounded
by a crowd of canoes laden with turkeys, chickens, pine
apples, water-melons, and cocoanuts, which the natives
endeavoured to dispose of to the best advantage. The
men in the outside canoes would jump into the water,

dive under the boats nearest the ship, and come up

                                                                                                                                    5
54  THE SANDWICH ISLANDS  [ch. 1v

alongside the gangway with their merchandise in their

hands. It was a lively and amusing spectacle. The

canoes, fitted with an outrigger on one side to prevent
them from capsizing, were about 12 feet in length, and
capable of carrying one man besides the goods that were
brought off for sale.

    Needless to say, there was an immediate rush for the
shore by those who were granted permission to land,
and Markham was one of the fortunate ones. The
village, which stood at the head of the bay, consisted
only of the beef-contractor's house, the shop of a China
man, and two or three huts. The first thing they did
on landing was to make a native climb up a cocoanut-
tree and throw down some of the nuts, from which they
enjoyed a most refreshing drink. Then they turned
their steps inland, and rambled about the country,
visiting a magnificent waterfall over 70 feet in height
whose waters dashed down into a large clear pool below.
Here they bathed in company with a number of native

boys and girls, who were thoroughly enjoying the sport.
Being very hungry, and having nothing wherewithal to
appease their appetites, they indicated their require
ments by signs to some amiable native women whom
they met. They were at once taken into a hut in which
were some fowls. Two were promptly caught and killed,
and the party were then led to another larger hut con
structed of cocoanut poles thatched with fara leaves and
furnished inside with mats. The chickens were cooked
in a calabash over an oven made of hot stones sunk in
the ground . While dinner was being prepared , their new
friends entertained them with music by playing on a
reed instrument bent like a bow, having five strings
of cocoanut fibre stretched across it. The meal, which
was excellent, included a dish of tara root, with cocoa-

nut milk to drink. It is needless to say it was much

relished after their long and fatiguing walk.
   On the following day Markham formed one of a party

from the ship, which landed at 5 a.m. with the express
ch.1v]  THE SANDWICH ISLANDS  5$

object of ascending the volcanic mountain of Kilauea,

4,ooo feet above sea-level. Horses carried them for

some fifteen miles, after which came a steady climb up
a steep stony ascent for about twelve miles, which
brought them to a hut when they were almost ready to

drop from fatigue. Here they rested for a while, and

were attended to by some charming native girls who
proceeded to knead them, a process that had a marvel

lously revivifying effect ! The operation was called lomi-
lomi. Continuing the ascent, the crater was eventually

reached. It is described as an immense basin, eight
miles in circumference, with perpendicular sides. A

fifth part of the area of the crater was literally a burning
lake of lava of an ashy colour by daylight, with a livid
tint ; but at night it was a perfect sheet of fire, and pre

sented a truly magnificent effect. They passed the
night in the hut, and got on board the next evening
at seven o'clock, very weary, but having thoroughly
enjoyed their expedition to Kilauea.

   Two days' sail with a fair wind and lovely weather
brought them to the island of Oahu, where they dropped
anchor, outside the reef in the open roadstead off Hono
lulu. The latter part of the voyage had been most
delightful, the ship having to thread her way through
the narrow channels between many of the principal
islands comprising the group. On the day after their
arrival Markham was sent ashore to deliver an official
letter to a Mr. Wylie, who held the responsible position
of Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Government of the
Sandwich Islands. On learning the name of his visitor,
Mr. Wylie asked him if he was any relation to Mrs.
Mure of Caldwell, to which Markham replied : "Yes ; she
is my aunt." Mr. Wylie then informed him that he was
the son of a tenant farmer on the Caldwell estate, and

therefore he would be happy to use all the influence he
possessed to promote Markham 's wishes in any way, in
memory of his young days in Ayrshire. On returning to
the^ship, Markham boasted to the Flag Lieutenant, with
56  THE SANDWICH ISLANDS                       [ch. rv

pardonable exuberance of boyish conceit, that he had

considerable influence with the Minister for Foreign

Affairs, which would be of inestimable value in the

event of the Admiral desiring to carry out any im

portant negotiations with the  Gthoivseronffmerenwt.as:T"hePrFoldaig
Lieutenant's only comment to

gious ! we shall now know to whom to apply !"
While at Honolulu, the King of the Sandwich Islands

paid the ship a visit. He was accompanied by his

Ministers, including Mr. Wylie, and by several chiefs,

one of whom was an enormous man 6 feet 8 inches in

height, and weighing 23 stone 6 pounds. He also
brought with him the heir-apparent, his son, named
Alexander Liko-liko. All the officers were presented to

His Majesty, who was then shown round the ship. He

was keenly interested in everything he saw, especially

in the details connected with the preparations for battle.

Markham describes him as a middle-aged man of olive

complexion, wearing a coat covered with gold lace, and

a large cocked hat.*

* The history of the sovereignty of the Sandwich Islands is brief
but interesting. In 1795 Kamehameha, Chief of Hawaii (the
largest of the Sandwich Islands), succeeded in conquering the whole

group, and proclaimed himself King, establishing the seat of govern
ment at Honolulu, in the island of Oahu. Dying twenty-four years
afterwards, he was succeeded by his son Liko-liko, who ascended the

throne under the name of Kamehameha II. He embraced Chris
tianity in 181 8, and his subjects followed his good example two
years later. This monarch offered the protectorate of the islands
to Great Britain, an offer that was most unwisely declined. In spite
of this refusal, the King insisted on placing the Union Jack in the
upper canton, or quarter, of the national flag, which till then con
sisted of nine alternate blue, red, and white horizontal stripes. In
July, 1824, the King and Queen paid an official visit to England,
where, unhappily, they both died of measles. Their remains were
conveyed to Honolulu in H.M.S. Blonde, with many expressions of
regret and sympathy  bfreocmamtehisKacmouenhtarmy.ehaTheIIIK. ingHewarsenseuwcecdeedtehde
by his nephew, who
offer of the sovereignty of the islands to Great Britain, and it was
accepted for England by the senior naval officer on the station.
Captain Lord George Paulet, of H.M.S. Carysfort, and the British
flag was hoisted^at Honolulu. His lordship's action was not, how
ch. 1v]  THE SANDWICH ISLANDS  57

   Markham made good use of the time he spent at Hono
lulu. Various excursions were made both on foot and

on horseback, and he carried away with him many happy
recollections of his visit. In company with one or more
of his friends, he would start off for a walk to the Salt
Lake, a distance of ten miles over a very difficult country,
in sultry weather; and many times he longed for the
delightful lomi-lomi process that had proved so efficacious
on their ascent of the Kilauea volcano ! The water in
this lake is reputed to be five times more salt than sea-
water; it leaves thick white saline incrustations along
the banks of the lake.

   Another most delightful excursion he made with some
of his brother officers was to a place called Pari, about
eight miles from Honolulu. After riding for about an
hour through tara fields which, like the paddy-fields of
China, are kept under water in order to promote more
rapid growth, they emerged upon a totally different
scene. They found themselves in a deep narrow valley,

bounded on each side by stupendous mountains clothed
with trees to their summits, while numerous cascades

poured their waters down the hills into the valley.

Proceeding, they reached a dense wood through which
there was a narrow path which eventually brought them
to a scene which they described as the most magnifi

cent they ever beheld. They were standing literally
on the edge of a precipice 3,000 feet above the level of

the sea. Below was a verdant plain interspersed with
hill and dale, woods and hamlets, and beyond was the
deep blue sea. Behind were the lofty tree-clad moun

tains, and on each side they beheld perpendicular preci
pices over which it is said Kamehameha drove and

destroyed the army of the Chief of Oahu in 1790.
Nowhere in the world is it possible to find scenery to

ever, approved by the English Government, and the British flag
was hauled down again by Admiral Thomas in 1843. Thus were
lost to our country these beautiful islands, with their simple and
loyal inhabitants, who had always evinced a strong desire to become
politically attached to Great Britain and its free institutions.
58    THE SANDWICH ISLANDS                               [ca.iv

exceed, or even equal, the transcendental loveliness of
this beautiful island : it is absolutely incomparable !

    On one occasion Markham was invited to the house
o" frouDnrd.ersRo"okweit,h
                            an   Englishman, where he    played
                            his  adopted daughter, Emma  Rooke,

who subsequently married the heir -apparent. She

came  to England            in"  1865 on a visit, and was known
and   respected as               Queen Emma of the Sandwich

Islands." It was during this visit to Honolulu that he
first made the acquaintance of Lieutenant M'Clintock,*

with whom in after-years he was so closely associated

in the search for Sir John Franklin, and subsequently
in matters relating to Polar exploration. M'Clintock at
this time was serving as a lieutenant in H.M. brig Frolic.

    During their stay at Honolulu they experienced a

violent gale of wind which lasted over forty-eight hours,

during which time the safety of the ship was seriously

imperilled. Happily, no untoward event happened.

From Honolulu they returned, much to their delight, to
Tahiti, which at that time was passing through a some

what serious political crisis. On their way the ship

sailed close along the land at Kealakekua Bay in Hawaii,

a place rendered memorable as the scene of the murder

of Captain James Cook by the natives on the 14th of
February, 1779.
   On the 4th of November they sighted the moun

tains of Tahiti, and shortly afterwards were boarded by

Captain Hammond, of the Salamander, who from the

foreyard piloted them safely     through   the narrow en
trance in the reef--only 200     yards in
                                           width --to their

anchorage in Papeete Harbour. The French protec

torate flag was flying, and was duly saluted by the

Collingwood with twenty-one guns.
    It will not be out of place here to give a brief

account of the events that happened immediately prior

to the arrival of the ship, and which really led to the

Collingwood's visit. This beautiful island was discovered

      * Admiral Sir Leopold M'Clintock, K.C.B., F.R.S.
ch. 1v]  THE SANDWICH ISLANDS  59

by Captain Wallis in 1 767, and though at first the natives

opposed his landing, friendly relations were speedily

established and the English met with a warm and
friendly reception.

    Oberea, the Queen Regent, accompanied by Tupia, her
Minister, paid several visits to the ship, and the utmost

harmony and good feeling existed between the natives and
their visitors. This visit of Captain Wallis was followed
shortly after by the appearance on the scene of a French
man-of-war commanded by M. de Bougainville. This

gentleman created much bad feeling by shooting some
of the natives, in consequence, so it was reported, of
turbulent and aggressive behaviour on their part. In
 1769 Captain Cook arrived, for the purpose of observing
the transit of Venus. He found that Otu, nephew of
Oberea, was King. Captain Cook was again at Tahiti
in 1772, and again, for the last time, in 1778. Nothing
could be better or more encouraging than the good feel
ing that existed between the natives and ourselves at

that period.
    Shortly after the departure of Captain Cook, however,

a formidable confederacy was formed, having for its
object the deposition of King Otu; and civil war was

the inevitable result. It was at this time that the

Bounty in charge of the mutineers returned to Tahiti.*
They threw in their lot with the King and enabled him

to gain an important victory over the rebels, after which
they took their departure from Tahiti, and sailed for
 Pitcairn Island, where, having married Tahitian wives,

   * The Bounty, it will be remembered, had been despatched from
England under the command of Lieutenant Bligh for the purpose
of collecting plants of the bread-fruit tree and transporting them
to the West Indies for cultivation. So enraptured were the crew
with the islands, and especially with the inhabitants of Tahiti,
that on proceeding to sea they mutinied, put their Captain and
nineteen men into a boat with a small supply of provisions near
the Friendly Islands, and took the ship back to Tahiti. Here they
married Tahitian wives, and migrated to Pitcairn Island, where
they settled. Their descendants still inhabit Pitcairn and Norfolk

Islands.
6o       THE SANDWICH ISLANDS               [ch. 1v

they settled down. King Otu married Idia , heiress of the

neighbouring island of Eimeo, and took the name and

title of Pomare I. In 1797 English missionaries arrived

and were well received, and Christianity was introduced

and adopted by a great majority of the inhabitants.
    In 1 8 10 Rua, an important chief, seized the sacred

god Oro, as well as the regalia, and was thus the cause of

another civil war. He was, however, defeated and killed,

and the rebellion was successfully crushed, only, how

ever, to be followed by another rising, when the King

(Pomare II.) was forced to take refuge in his island of

Eimeo. During his exile he became a Christian; and
returning to Tahiti in 181 5, he engaged and defeated

the rebels in a great battle. Pomare behaved with much

clemency to the vanquished, many of whom he persuaded

to become Christians. The god Oro and all the idols

were destroyed, and the shocking custom of infanticide

was abolished. Schools were established under the

auspices of the missionaries, and a new code of laws was

framed and put in force in 18 19.
   King
          Pomare died in    1824, his  Hloissssobne, inPgommaruechIIrIe.,
gretted  by the chiefs and  people.

was then an infant, and died when he was only seven

years old. He was succeeded by his sister Aimata, who

was proclaimed Queen when she was sixteen years of

age, and took the name of Pomare IV. She married a

young chieftain named Arifaiti. In 1832 a rebellion
broke out, but was speedily suppressed, and the young
Queen's affa1rs began to prosper. At this juncture a
Mr. Pritchard, who had been a coppersmith and had
become a missionary, was made British Consul at Tahiti,

a most unwise and ill advised appointment.

During all this time the inhabitants were clamouring

for the British Government to assume a protectorate over

the islands, which would have assisted the Tahitians to

work out their destiny in their own way, and would have
saved them from what they most dreaded -- a French

occupation. But this request was refused by us in spite
ch.1v]  THE SANDWICH ISLANDS  61

of the earnest entreaties of the islanders. Our error
and want of foresight in not acceding to their request
was only too soon made apparent. Intrigues were pro
moted by sending French priests to Tahiti. They were

requested to leave, and eventually took their departure,
but not before they had spread broadcast the imaginary

benefits to be derived by the annexation of the islands
to France.

   Shortly after their departure Captain Du Petit-
Thouars arrived in command of a French frigate, and

threatened to bombard Papeete if an indemnity was

not immediately paid for some imaginary insults offered
to the priests. The merchants and missionaries collected

the money, and the indemnity was paid. Subsequently

an adventurer named Moerenhout unjustifiably possessed
himself of a piece of land, but was compelled to restore
it to its rightful owner. In consequence of this unlawful

seizure, the French corvette Heroine was despatched to
Tahiti, with orders to destroy the town if Moerenhout did
not at once receive back the land which he had originally

stolen and appropriated. At the same time this man

received the appointment of French Consul.
   Of course all these demands, although most unjust,

had to be complied with, for the people were not in a
position to resist. One demand followed another. Under

the stress of force majeure in the shape of the guns of a
French frigate, all demands had to be acceded to. Land

had to be given, on which to build a Roman Catholic

chapel, and priests of that denomination were to be

granted permission to reside in the island, with leave

and authority to convert any one desirous of embracing

that faith.
   In 1842, during the absence of the Queen at Eimeo,

attempts were made to induce the disaffected chiefs to

ask for a French protectorate over the islands. They
would not, however, be traitors to their country, and

declined. Another pretext had to be found. It came

at last. During a street brawl a Frenchman declared
62  THE SANDWICH ISLANDS  [ch. 1v

he had been pushed and assaulted by the natives. The
French Admiral was sent for. He arrived in the Reine

Blanche, and demanded, under the usual threat of bom
bardment, an indemnity of $10,000. He then invited

the chiefs on board his ship, plied them with good cheer,
and persuaded them to sign a document. The Queen,
who was very ill at the time, was also induced to sign.
This document purported to be a grant to the French
of a protectorate over Tahiti and Eimeo, including also
the whole of the Society Islands, over which, however,

Pomare had no jurisdiction. A Governor with a large

escort of troops was sent out from France, and protec

tion for the islands was practically enforced by the con
struction of fortifications.

   The people were utterly taken by surprise, for they
had always relied (not without good reason) on English
protection and support. Certainly they had excellent
grounds for such reliance. Tahiti was discovered by the

English; both countries had traditions of the happy
intercourse with Cook and his officers; English mis

sionaries had converted the islanders to Christianity;

and civilisation had come to them through the help and
advice of the Captains of English men-of-war. For

more than half a century they had intimate and happy
relations with our country, and they earnestly desired

to be placed under our protection. A statesman with

the knowledge of these facts before him, and with

any foresight, would have acceded to their request in
time to prevent another nation from stepping in and
assuming, vi et artnis, the protectorate.

   Abandoned by us, the Tahitians were not prepared to

hand over their country to a foreign Power without a
struggle for liberty. In March, 1844, they rose in arms,

and assembled a large and fairly well equipped army.
Mr. Pritchard, the British Consul before alluded to, was

accused of aiding and abetting the natives. He was
arrested, imprisoned in a blockhouse, and his own house

was attacked and pillaged. After a long detention he
was eventually sent on board H.M.S. Vindictive on the
ch.1v]  THE SANDWICH ISLANDS                                                     63

urgent demand of her Captain. Queen Pomare escaped
and took refuge on board H.M.S. Basilisk, and was
taken to the island of Raiatea in the Society Group.

   Meanwhile the French Governor, supported by a
couple of men-of-war, landed troops and field-guns and

proceeded to attack the islanders. The ships opened fire
with shell and grape, but there was a gallant defence.
Eventually the Tahitians retired, and took refuge in a
forest in their rear. The French casualties on this occa

sion amounted to 200. Several skirmishes followed,

and early in 1845 the native army met with some slight
successes, in spite of the French having the command
of the sea, and were on that account placed in a better

position for carrying out warlike operations.
   This was the position of affairs when the Collingwood

arrived in Papeete Harbour in November, 1845. Sir
George Seymour's instructions were to acknowledge the
French protectorate at Tahiti and Eimeo, it being un
fait accompli, but he was to prevent the extension of the
protectorate to the other islands of the group, if possible,
by collating evidence of their absolute independence of
Tahiti, and by negotiations based on such evidence.

        QUEEN POMARE'S LAMENT.

        I gaze upon the sea where, as a child,

           Each billow loved me as it laved the shore;
        'Tis crimsoned now 1 its rush is sad and wild.

           And sea-birds scream where rest they found before.

        I gaze upon the beach where banners gay

        Once greeted poor Pomare and her son;

        But pirates stole  smtoyodrigahndtfuwl efplatg--ayweatys, aw  it  done.
           While Britons

        Proud Britain told me, should those pirates send,
           She would protect me from their thirsty hate;

        Alas I e'en Britain's Queen forgets her friend:
           Pomare falls, and murderers rule her State.

        Farewell, Tahiti ! once again farewell 1
        When future tribes recite Pomare's fall,

        The gushing      tear may   sQpeuaekenh--er dfeeceeliinvgesd  well :
            She faljs,  an injured                                    by all.
CHAPTER V

CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC

The conditions prevailing at Tahiti on the arrival of the

Collingwood in Papeete Harbour have been briefly

narrated in the preceding chapter. Markham was in

tensely excited over the events that were being enacted
within the ken, at any rate, of his mental vision. His

sympathies were, as they always have been, with the

oppressed; and these feelings were shared by all his

shipmates, although perhaps with less    "enttwhuosicahsimef.s    He
writes that on their arrival at Papeete                         paid

us a visit from the patriot camp at Bonavia, and en

treated the Admiral to attack the French. On being

told this was impossible, they went away very sorrowful,

but with our warmest sympathy."

Many of the officers of the Collingwood were boiling

over with indignation at the treatment their beloved

islanders were being subjected to at the hands of the
French, and earnestly implored that they might be per

mitted to assist the army of patriots in fighting for their

liberty, their homes, their country, and everything that

was worth living for. Markham, although only a boy

of fifteen, was even more emphatic than his shipmates

in his endeavours to assist the islanders in as practical

a way as could be devised. As he was not allowed to

take up arms on their behalf, he determined to get as

much information regarding the strength and position
of the French forces as was possible, and communicate
it to the islanders. He did not consider that in so doing

he was committing a serious breach of neutrality, and
that it was an act that would certainly be regarded as

espionage bv the French.

                          64
ch.v]  CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC  65

    The first time he went on shore, it was with the de
liberate intention of reconnoitring the French position,
 and of obtaining as much information as he could re

 garding their intentions and strength. He drew up a
 plan of the various fortifications, the size and number

 of the guns, the positions of the powder-magazines, and
 all such information as he considered to be of military
 importance. He also went on board a couple of French
 men-of-war in the harbour, the Uranie and the Phaeton,
 and, although on duty, he carefully noted all particulars
 regarding their armaments, the numerical strength of
 the crews, and all other particulars that he regarded
 as likely to be of value to the Tahitians.

    Having completed what he was pleased to call his
" reconnaissance," he discovered, after some inquiries,
 that there was an Englishman named Miles who kept a
 public-house in the town, who would in all probability
 be of use to him. Accordingly, he went to this man,

found him at home, asked him a few guarded questions,
and was convinced by his replies that he was on the

side of the patriots. Under a solemn vow Of secrecy,
Miles informed him that the military adviser of the

native chiefs was a Maltese named Vincente, and that
he sometimes visited Papeete in disguise. Markham,
speaking in a whisper, said he had something of great
importance to communicate to him, and begged that he
would arrange a meeting. This Miles agreed to do in a
few days. Markham returned on board that evening
brimming over with delight at the fascinating idea of

being a conspirator. Doubtless the French would have

called him by another name !

    Having drawn up his report and completed his plans,

he obtained leave for the whole day on the nth of

November, and, so that no time should be lost, left the

ship at five o'clock in the morning, accompanied by
three of his brother officers. Breakfast was ready for
them at Miles 's house, after partaking of which they

proceeded on foot through a most enchanting country,
66  CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC  [cn. v

along a path in a dense wood of guava bushes. Above
them rose clumps of tall cocoanut-trees, while groves
of orange-trees waved their graceful branches overhead .
With these and other delicious fruits they constantly

refreshed themselves. At length they entered a beauti

ful valley bounded by lofty mountains, and having a
rippling stream flowing down the centre. This was the
Fatona Valley. Presently they found a clear, inviting
pool, in which, as a matter of course, they bathed.

At the end of the valley was a cluster of huts. One of

these was the abode of an old chief named Tomafas, who
invariably hoisted the British Flag on a staff over his
hut whenever any Englishman passed. They came to
the conclusion that the Tahitian huts were neater and
cleaner than those in the Sandwich Islands, and that the

men were more handsome and the women more beautiful.

   Thoroughly tired with their long walk, they returned
to Papeete in time for the dinner which was being pre
pared for them at Miles's inn. While waiting, Miles

made a sign to Markham to follow him out to the back
of the house, where he found a repulsive-looking ruffian
drinking spirits. This was Vincente. Markham ques

tioned this ferocious-looking individual regarding details
of the native army and their entrenched camp . The man
boasted extravagantly of his personal deeds and what he
was going to do . Markham then gave him for conveyance
to his military commander his report and plans of the
French positions, and intimated to him that the English

would willingly fight on their side if only they were per
mitted to do so. All this conversation of the conspira

tors was carried on in a whisper. On being interrogated
about his previous life, Vincente said he had lived a long
time at the Marquesas, and told harrowing stories of the
different sorts of people he had eaten during his resi
dence there. Fortunately, Markham was called away by

the announcement that dinner was ready; and he does

not seem to have had any further communication with
this rascal.
ch.vJ   CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC                           67

Markham was not the only one among the officers of

the Collingwood who were willing to risk almost anything

and everything in order to evince their personal interest
in the cause of the Tahitians. Mr. Grant, one of the
mates, was even more enthusiastic, if possible, than his

younger brother officer, and was quite ready to sacrifice

his position in the Navy, and even his life, if by so

doing he could assist the islanders to gain emancipation

from the thraldom of the French. He was furious at

the way in which they were being treated, and was wild

to join the ranks of the patriots. He was, perhaps, a
little mortified that Markham should have rendered so

much material assistance by disclosing the dispositions

of the French, while he had not been afforded the oppor

tunity of doing anything of so important a nature.

Early on Sunday morning, however, Mr. Grant went on

shore without indicating to anyone what he was going to

do. Markham was very anxious about him all day. He

returned very late, and was extremely reticent as to his

doings ; but Markham felt sure he had been to visit the

patriot army, which was entrenched near Bonavia, on

the .west side of the island. On the following day the

Admiral himself went to the camp at Bonavia, in order

to satisfy himself regarding the state of affairs among

the troops of the native army, and also to advise them

to submit quietly to the French.

The ship was ordered to sea the next morning. Every

one was taken by surprise, and Markham was much

alarmed, for he could not help connecting the Admiral's

visit to the camp with the sudden putting to sea of the

Collingwood; and he feared that their departure was asso

ciated in some way with Mr. Grant's expedition on the

previous Sunday. His fears were soon realised, for no

sooner was the ship outside the harbour than the Cap
tain sent for all the gunroom officers on the quarter

deck.   There was an  ominous scowl on  ashkisedfac"ei,f  indi
cative  of anger and  displeasure. He                      any

officer had given a British flag to the insurgents; if so
68        CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC                                    [ch. v

he was to confess at once." There was perfect silence
for a moment or two; then Mr. Grant stepped forward

panedctedacktnhoawtletdhgeednextht atquehestiohnad.wouMldarkbhea:m"  fully  ex
                                                                     Has    any

officer given any important military advice to the

Tahitian General, or supplied him with plans and in
formation ?" He had made up his mind to step proudly

forward as a second conspirator and acknowledge his

share in the confederacy. But the question was not

put, and the officers were dismissed.

    Mr. Grant was placed under arrest. On going below

he sent for the barber, and told him to shave his head,
observing that he would at any rate " be cool and com

fortable." He afterwards informed Markham that it

was quite true: he had visited the camp at Bonavia, and
had been received with demonstrations of joy by the

patriots; he had presented them with an English boat's

ensign, which was immediately hoisted; and had urged

them to attack the French, assuring them that, when

they did so, he and others would come out and lead them

to victory under that flag. When the Admiral visited

the camp the day after Grant's escapade, he was shown

the boat's ensign with great manifestations of pride and

delight.

   Whether this episode hastened their departure from
Tahiti or not was never known. No doubt Sir George

Seymour sailed because he realised that his presence at

Papeete was no longer necessary. Markham was filled

with shame and despair; he had been living in hopes

that Grant would have held a high position in the Tahi

tian forces; that he (Markham) would have been his
aide-de-camp ; and that one of the jollyboat boys named

Moray, in whom he was particularly interested, would

have been his orderly. Sic transit gloria ntundi !

    Grant reproached himself for not having joined the

patriots on the spot ; he fully intended doing so, but the
sudden and unexpected sailing of the ship capsized all

his arrangements. He was kept under arrest during the
ch.vJ                  CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC                                        69

remainder of the voyage, then dismissed his ship, and

sent home in another man-of-war. Marknam writes of
him:

" He was a hero. He could not endure injustice or
                         He was absolutely              without fear. No better
ofeplplorewssieovne.r  trod a deck, and it              was a bitter moment for
me when I bade him farewell."

Meanwhile the Collingwood visited many of the islands

of the Society Group, making inquiries from the chiefs

as to whether they were under the jurisdiction of Queen
Pomare. On being informed that they had absolute

autonomy, and owed no allegiance to any other Sover

feuigl na,mthoengAdthmemiraslelvaedsvis; e"dbuthte,"mhetoakdedeepd,qu" ieift  and  peace
                                                                              any  foreign

Power attempts to land an armed force on your islands

with a view to annexation, your resistance will be justi
fiable." At Tahiti Sir George Seymour was directed, by

positive instructions from home, to recognise the French

Protectorate ; but at the Society Islands he had the much

more congenial task of preventing them from falling

under the same foreign yoke.

Among other places visited by them during this cruise

was the island of Bola-bola. Before anchoring, the

Collingwood was boarded outside the harbour by an

officer from the French man-of-war Phaeton, with in

structions from the French senior naval officer to inform

the Admiral that the harbour was blockaded by order

of the French Protectorate, and that the ship could not

be permitted to enter.

The Admiral was very angry. No notice of a blockade

had been promulgated, nor were there any indications

of the existence of one. The Admiral therefore regarded

the message as a piece of official presumption on the part

soaf idth:e"FTreenllchyoauur thCoarpittiaeisn  ;  and,  sending  for the officer, he
                                                  from  me that   the French Pro

tectorate of Tahiti has no jurisdiction here, as he well
knows; and if there is a blockade, I shall break it."

The French officer having been thus somewhat sum

                                                                                   6
70         CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC                         [ch.v

marily dismissed, the Collingwood entered the harbour

and anchored close alongside the Phaeton !
    Otiavanna Harbour, the principal port in Bola-bola,

is an excellent anchorage, well protected, and capable

of accommodating a large number of ships. It is formed

by a small island covered with cocoanut-trees stretching

across the mouth  o"f  ttohwenba"yc, otnhsuissteadctionfg  as an efficient
breakwater. The                                            a church, the

house of    the    missionary,  and the   threoy"altorwensid"enwcaes,
besides a  few                   back of
                 huts. At the

a magnificent mass of rock rising to a perpendicular

height of 4,000 feet, covered with trees at such places

as were not absolutely precipitous.

    Immediately after the ship's arrival, the Flag

Lieutenant was despatched to the native camp with

an invitation to the chiefs to meet the Admiral, who

was in a position, he stated, to promise them protection
from the French. They willingly accepted the invita

tion, and in the evening assembled in an open space in

front of the King's house to the number of about 600.

    Sir George Seymour addressed them, and ten

dered them the same good advice he had given

to the natives of the other islands. On the following

day crowds of natives visited the ship. They per

formed special native dances, and the best of good feeling

was established between the islanders and the officers

and men of the Collingwood. It may be remarked

here that Sir George Seymour had been indefatigable

in his endeavours to collect conclusive evidence that

Tahiti did not, then or at any other time, possess

jurisdiction over the Society Islands. As a consequence

of his representations, a treaty was signed in London
on the 19th of June, 1847, m which England and
France acknowledged the absolute independence, free

from all French jurisdiction, of the smaller islands of

the Society Group . These especially included the islands

Huaheine, Raiatea, and Bola-bola, together with the

smaller islands dependent on these greater ones. The
ch.v]   CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC                                   j\

treaty  aelsvoerst"iptualkaetedposthseastsinoenithoefr   France   nor England
should                                                  the said   islands, nor

of any one or more of them, either absolutely or under

the title of a protectorate, or in any other form what

ever." This treaty was signed on behalf of England

by Lord Palmerston, and of France by the Comte de

Jarnac. But in recent years this solemn pledge has
been unscrupulously broken by the French, and, so

far as we know, without any protest on the part of the

British Government.

   Christmas day of 1845 was spent at sea, when all the
youngsters of the gunroom mess were entertained at

dinner by the wardroom officers, who regaled them

with turkey and mince-pies. On the 29th of December,
after having been thirty-four consecutive days at sea,

the ship anchored at Valparaiso.

On landing, Markham's first visit was to Lady Sey

mour to thank her for all the kindness she had shown him

when he was last at that port. She replied, thought

lessly, that she was sorry to hear he had not been such

a good boy during the last cruise. This showed him

only too clearly that all his troubles had been reported

to the Admiral, had been brought to the knowledge

of the Admiral's family, and, as he thought, possibly

presented in a garbled and one-sided version. At this

time a little kindness and sympathy would have worked

wonders with the boy. At heart he was exceedingly

unhappy, more especially when his thoughts turned

on the important question of his future career in the

Navy. A great change had unconsciously come over

him. During the past six months he had been treated

with what he considered gross injustice; his passions

had been aroused ; he had learnt to distrust and to be

suspicious. He had undoubtedly lost his best friend and

adviser when Lieutenant Peel left the ship. It is true

he made other friends, but none were comparable to

the one he had lost. His heart had been scorched

by strong emotions and seared by disappointment.
72                     CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC            [ch. v

There was no one in whom he could confide. He felt

helpless and friendless, and he began to discuss, even

if he did not criticise adversely, the Navy as a profes

sion. He was then fifteen and a half years of age,
but was both mentally and physically in advance of

his years.

    Fortunately, however, there was much going on in the

ship which had the effect of distracting his thoughts
and turning them from his own grievances, whether

imaginary or real, into channels which could not be

otherwise than interesting. The mizen-mast was re

ported to be in an unsound condition. It had to be

hoisted out, towed on shore, surveyed and made

efficient, and then put back in its place and rigged. A

merchant ship arrived from England with a new main-
yard and other spars for the Collingwood ; these had

all to be received on board.

   It is customary in a man-of-war to appoint to each

of her boats a midshipman who is entirely responsible for

its cleanliness, its efficiency, its crew, and everything
appertaining to it. Markham, being the junior Naval
Cadet in the ship, had not been selected for the command

of a boat, in spite of his earnest entreaties for the posi

tion. His delight may be imagined when he was sent

for by the Commander, and informed that he had
been appointed to take charge of the dinghy. Now,
the dinghy was the smallest boat in the ship and had

"wa ancsreegwaroo.""f  only two boys ; moreover, in this  instance one
                       lanky white-headed boy," and       the other a
                                                          proud of his
                         Yet he was as pleased and as

command as a young Captain when selected for his
first ship. He almost lived in the dinghy, and kept it
scrupulously clean and always ready for instant service.

It was a source of unceasing interest, and assisted

materially in alleviating those morose feelings that
obtruded themselves in his thoughts, whenever he

reflected on what he considered to be the unjust treat
ment he had received in the ship.
ch.v]  CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC                                 73

On one occasion he and Goodenough decided upon

having a good long ride, as far as they could go and

return in one day, along the highroad to Santiago.
They started as early as they could get away, and

rode at a brisk pace to the first post-house, where the

landlady, Mrs. Diggles, supplied them with a lunch
of bread and cheese and beer. Mrs. D. had a black eye,

and she informed Markham confidentially that Diggles

was an escaped convict, leaving him to assume that her

husband was the cause of her temporary disfigurement.

Proceeding, they cantered over the wide grassy plain

with which he and Lieutenant Peel had become ac

quainted during their previous visit to Valparaiso.

Crossing a range of hills of considerable height, they

reached a country well timbered and interspersed with

small villages and haciendas.

After a long and hot ride of thirty-five miles, they

arrived at Casa Blanca, a pretty little town fringed with

poplar-trees and surrounded by ranges of high hills. Here

they found a very nice inn, kept by a Mr. and Mrs. Fen-

wick, where they baited and rested their horses, and them

selves enjoyed a good dinner followed by some excellent

quince jelly.  The  ghuoessttesssasw"asdaprlluinmgps,"  and    charming.
She addressed  her                                        and   informed

them that she was the daughter of an officer, and it

was only the financial difficulties of her dear papa

that induced her to marry Fenwick. Apparently she

was of a very confiding nature, especially to strangers.

She endeavoured to prevail upon them to stay the night,

as the distance to Valparaiso was too great for them

to ride back that evening. Markham willingly assented,

but Goodenough, here as always, stepped in as his

guardian angel, and insisted that they should return

at once. He knew full well that his friend would only
get into trouble again if he broke his leave. Sore and

tired himself, he ordered the horses to be brought out,

and compelled Markham to mount. He did so most

reluctantly, and they set off at a brisk pace.
74  CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC  [ch. v

   On reaching the wide plain already alluded to, a
guacho riding at full gallop made a dash at Markham,
trying to unhorse him with his knee. Being unsuccessful
in his attempt, he endeavoured to lasso him, but, fortun
ately, also failed in doing so. Goodenough charged him,
and he galloped away across the plain. They were of
opinion that he was either drunk or mischievously in

clined. At length, weary and sleepy, they reached

the first post-house, where Markham besought Mrs.
Diggles to get a bed ready for him, as he could proceed
no farther. But here again Goodenough put his foot

down, and said that whatever happened they must go
on, for he was determined that so long as Markham was

with him, he should do his utmost to prevent him from

getting into another scrape. At length, more dead than

alive, they reached Valparaiso, and got on board the
ship at about 10.30 p.m. This long ride together,
and the firm attitude for his good taken by Goodenough,

cemented, more solidly if possible, the friendship that

already existed between the two boys. They became
much more intimate, and frequently talked and ex
changed ideas with each other ; and they even succeeded

in arranging for Goodenough to be transferred to Mr.
Hankey's watch, so that they should be together.

It was a friendship that continued to the end of their

lives, becoming more real and indissoluble as the years

went by.

   Markham made many interesting excursions from
Valparaiso during the stay of the ship at that port.
His knowledge of Spanish and his lively disposition
made him a valuable acquisition to any shore-going partv
of officers. On board the Collingwood, too, he had
opportunities of practising his Spanish. Many friends

were made by the officers, and there were frequent
dances on board. Markham relates that, on one occasion
when he was the officer of the boat engaged in landing
the ladies after a dance, the boat suddenly heeled over,
causing the fair occupants to scream -- but not solely on
ch.v]    CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC                 75

account of the listing of the boat. A man -- a naked
man-- had suddenly caught hold of the gunwale of the
boat and was climbing into it ! He was promptly

covered with flags, and laid down in the bottom of the

boat well screened from the eyes of the fair passengers.

It turned out that he was a seaman named Harrison, one
of the best and smartest sailors in the ship. He had just

missed the boat sent in to bring off the liberty men, and

having spent all his money, he was unable to hire a boat

to take him on board . So he coolly made up his mind

to swim off to the ship with his clothes made up in a

bundle, and tied on his head, rather than break his

leave.*

Leaving Valparaiso, the ship worked her way north

ward, touching at Callao, the Lobos Islands, and Payta,

the latter place a small seaport situated in a barren and,

apparently, sterile country without a blade of vegetation
to be seen. The city of San Miguel de Piura was at

too great a distance to be visited in the short  t"imIet
at their disposal. As Markham truly observed,

is one of the most tantalising parts of naval life that we

are often so near places of the deepest interest which
we cannot visit." However, he paid a visit to the

church at Payta, which town had been sacked by

Admiral Anson in 1741. Shortly after their departure
from Payta, they had the misfortune to lose two of

their men, who died from fever; their bodies were

committed to the deep at the same time. It was the

first occasion on which Markham had witnessed the

solemn funeral service at sea, and it made a deep
impression upon him.

   During this cruise Markham saw a great deal of the
Flag Lieutenant, Beauchamp Seymour, who was always
very kind to him, and they spent many afternoons

   * When Goodenough was Captain of H.M.S. Victoria at Malta in

1865, a gentleman called upon him who turned out to be this same
man Harrison. He was then employed as Lloyd's agent, and drawing
a salary of £700 per annum !
76  CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC  [ch. v

together in his cabin, which he had given his young
friend permission to use. Markham was much im

pressed by his industry and his capacity for work.
From the time he entered the Service, Seymour had
kept careful journals, jotting down everything that
he considered might be of use to him for reference in
after-years. He showed Markham the plan he used
in writing his diary, and advised him to adopt it also.
These journals were patterns of neatness and legibility .
He always maintained that a naval officer should be
well read, and well informed on general subjects as well

as on professional matters.
    During this voyage, when Markham was working

up for his examination for a midshipman, he and the
Naval Instructor became better friends, the latter

apparently having buried in oblivion all their differ
ences of opinion and the causes that led to those
unfortunate dissensions. He always spoke to Markham
with studied kindness, saying very often that he was
most anxious that he should pass his examination for
a midshipman well and creditably. His pupil was
quite ready to meet him halfway, and did so, but it

could never be the same again. The past could never
be dismissed from his thoughts; unkind words and un
friendly acts could never be forgotten. He felt it was
owing to the Naval Instructor that he was changed;

he was no longer, he thought, the same young zealous
naval officer that his friend Peel had known, but a totally

different character, less zealous, more absent, and more

occupied with affairs distinct from his professional

duties.

   Finding much time at his disposal on this particular
cruise, he conceived the somewhat audacious idea of writ

ing a history of the Pacific Station . Its boundaries were --

to the north, the Arctic Circle; to the west, the 170th
meridian of west longitude; to the south, the Antarctic
Circle; and to the east, the American coast to the

meridian of Cape Horn. There were to be chapters
ch.v]  CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC  77

on the Russian-American Territory, on Oregon, New
Albion, California, Mexico, Central America, Nueva
Granada, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Chile, Patagonia,
and on the Sandwich, Society, Georgian and Marquesas

Groups, together with the Galapagos and smaller
islands. He worked zealously on this task during
the voyage, his authorities and references being all
the books on the various subjects which he could find
in the ship. Arnold, the seamen's schoolmaster, suc
ceeded in making a nice book for him to write in. We

have not been able to ascertain the result of this marvel
lous project of his; but it shows very clearly his love,

even as a boy, of collecting knowledge, especially when
it was of a geographical character, and gathering it all
together in a condensed form for the information of

others.

    On the 3rd of April they sighted the coast of Mexico,
and the following day anchored off the port of San
 Bias, a small town situated on an isolated rock about
 1 50 feet above the sea. In spite of the intense heat and
the swarms of pestilential stinging insects that abounded ,

 Markham seems to have thoroughly enjoyed his

short visit to San Bias. He relates that while they
 were indulging in a bathe at the mouth of the river

 they heard a great clatter of horses' hoofs, and saw a
 tall, handsome man with fair hair come down to the place

 where they were bathing. He was accompanied by a
 number of loose horses in charge of a couple of Mexicans.
 As he was looking somewhat fatigued and thirsty, one

of the party offered him a flask containing spirits
which he had brought with him. The stranger at

once tossed off its contents, saying: "Thank God for

 all His mercies, and you for your brandy and
 water." He then announced that he was Captain
 Charles Seymour of the Scots Guards, brother of the
 Flag Lieutenant, and that he had ridden across Mexico

to pay his uncle and brother a visit. He remained

in the ship for nearly two months, and went back the
78  CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC  [ch.v

way he came on the return of the Collingwood to San
Bias.*

    Having completed with water, in those days a very
necessary and important duty, they worked their way
up to Mazatlan. This, in consequence of a continuous
head-wind, took them four days to accomplish, although
the distance as the crow flies is not more than sixty
miles. Here they found H.M.S. Talbot, also a formidable
American squadron, for at that time the United States
and Mexico were at war. They were unable to obtain
sufficient fresh beef for the ship's company, but they
succeeded fortunately in catching large quantities of
fish and turtle during their stay. On one occasion they
made such a successful haul with the seinef that every
man in the ship was provided with turtle soup for
dinner. To Markham's great annoyance and no small
indignation, his boat the dinghy was hoisted on board
and filled with water, and used as a tank in which

forsooth the turtle were kept alive until required.
   Markham enjoyed his stay at Mazatlan . The favourite

place of resort for the officers was a skittle-alley belong
ing to a Mr. Bush, who came from Yorkshire, with whom

he became great friends. Sometimes he would go on
shore with one or more of his messmates. They would

take a long walk, and finally would hire a canoe and

explore the lagoons and intricate channels near the
mouth of the river. On these occasions Markham

would borrow Mr. Wemyss' gun (not the Naval In
structor's, be it observed), and shoot green and brown
parrots, which they cooked for tea 1 Sometimes he
would be taken by Mr. Wemyss, or one of the other
wardroom officers, for a ride along the coast or into the

interior, which he enjoyed above all things; but he

   * He subsequently served in the Crimea, as Assistant-Adjutant-
General to Sir George Cathcart. When his General fell he, although
wounded at the time, gallantly sprang off his horse, and, striding
across the body of his chief, vainly endeavoured to protect him, but
both were bayonetted.

   t A large fishing net supplied to each of our ships of war.
ch.v]  CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC                    79

did not like the heavy and high Mexican saddles, which

he found most uncomfortable. At midday they in

variably halted  at some native pulperia          o(nger--og ofsf heogpg)s,
where they had   a meal -- and a very good

and frijoles (beans), and the day always wound up with

a delicious bathe in the river.

On the 4th of May H.M.S. Juno arrived, the Spy
having come in a few days before. Now, the facilities

for procuring water at Mazatlan were most crude and

inconvenient, not to say dangerous. Large boats had

to be used, and a bar had to be crossed on which there

were always rollers, and often a heavy surf breaking.

The principal danger was when the boats came out deeply

and heavily laden, for, if they did not rise easily to the

rollers, they were invariably swamped or capsized. In

this way one of the boats of the Juno was unfortunately
capsized in the surf. Young Goodenough was sent

in the whale-boat to the rescue. In rendering assistance,

one of the officers fell overboard, but, luckily, succeeded

"icnagheegew"tteibnnegt forhroeouldnhdeoafwndaas  cask, on which, says Markham,
                                                  round like a white mouse in its

                                                   rescued. On this occasion one

man, the coxswain of the Juno's boat, was unfor
tunately drowned. As a sequel to this accident, Mark-

ham made a plan of the mouth of the river with sound

ings taken from an old Spanish chart (which had been
lent him by the Naval Instructor). This he took to
the Captain, who commended him for the diligence

and accuracy with which it had been made.

Having served the necessary period as a naval cadet,

Markham was now eligible to qualify .for a midshipman,

and on the 25th of June was examined, with nine other
cadets, as to his knowledge in the following subjects :

arithmetic, algebra, and trigonometry. The next day

he was examined in geometry and mensuration, naviga

tion and nautical astronomy, and the adjustments of

the sextant. The candidates were then examined as

to their knowledge of knotting and splicing, and finally
80  CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC  [ch. v

they were taken before the Captain and Commander
to be examined in seamanship. This last was perhaps
the most trying and crucial part of the examination,
for it was conducted viva voce in the presence of two
of the most dreaded officers in the ship. However, all
went off well, and all were successful in passing. Prior
to the examination, Markham felt assured that Good-

enough would be ahead of him; but he was somewhat

mortified to find that in the result one of the other

candidates, young Hamilton, separated him in the list

from his friend. Goodenough, as was expected, was
at the top of the list ; then came Hamilton, then Markham ,

who was a very good third, and only twelve marks below

his friend Goodenough. He had every reason to be

satisfied with the result of the examination and his

position on the list. On Sunday, the 28th, he had the

gratification of appearing as a full-blown midshipman,
with the white patch on his collar, and his sword dang
ling from his side, when the men were mustered at

Divisions. Another gratifying event happened at the

same time --namely, his promotion from the dinghy

to the command of the jollyboat.
   In the meantime they left Mexico, and had a delight

ful cruise to the entrance of the Gulf of California, and

subsequently on to Monterey. It was a voyage that

occupied rather more than a month, but was most en

joyable in every respect. On the 16th of July they

anchored in Monterey Bay, where they found an
American squadron which had taken possession of the
place the previous week, the Mexicans having retired
to Pueblo de los Angelos.

   The town of Monterey was small, but very picturesque.

It consisted of isolated houses built on grassy lawns,

with only one short street. The surrounding country
has been likened to an English park, with hills and dales,

thickets and clusters of trees, and grassy slopes.

Marines from the American men-of-war were occupying

a long building that had been erected by the Mexicans
ch.v]  CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC                          81

and used as barracks. Sentries and outposts were placed
in commanding positions on the outskirts of the town,

so as to guard against any surprise that might be con

templated by General Castro, whose forces were in

fairly close proximity to          Moof nater"eysm. alTl heplacAem"eriscoamnes
had also taken possession

seventy miles to the northward, called San Francisco,

which had a splendid harbour !

as  Markham's      duties as  msliadnsgh,iptmhean"  of the jollyboat, or,
     it is called   in naval                        blood-boat,"* were

of a somewhat arduous and diversified nature, as the

following account, by himself, of his morning duties

at Monterey exemplifies. Every morning at four

o'clock he had to take his boat to a wharf in the neigh

bourhood of the beef-contractor's house, near which

a herd of cattle was penned in a corral, or enclosure.

    " A native was sent in to the corral to lasso a bullock,
but he had no sooner got the beast out of the yard than
it charged another man and knocked him off his horse,
and then galloped as hard as it could go over the plain.
The two fellows picked themselves up, and one of
them let me have his horse. We then galloped after
the bullock.       It was a long   stern  chase, and my attempts
with a lasso                               length my compan1on
                   were failures.     At
lassoed the bullock again, and after about an hour
brought him back, when the beast was killed, skinned,
cut up, and taken down to the jollyboat."

   Rarely indeed do midshipmen of the present day
have such exciting experiences when sent in the jolly-
boat to bring off the fresh provisions to their ship !

   Monday, the 20th of July, was his sixteenth birthday.

He moralises on the troubles, the excitements, and the

anxieties, he had experienced during the past twelve
months, and is pleased when he reflects that all is calm
again, and that his interest in and zeal for the Service
had again revived.

   Their visit to Monterey was a most pleasant and in

   * So called for being employed in the daily transfer of fresh meat,
etc., from the shore to the ship when in harbour.
82           CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC    [ch. v

teresting one, and they were all sorry when the day of
their departure arrived. A slashing fair wind, and

plenty of it, carried them across to Honolulu in twelve

days, the old Collingwood quite distinguishing herself

by her brilliant sailing qualities. At Honolulu they
met H.M.S. Grampus, just arrived from England,

and Markham made many friends with the young
officers on board that ship, among them being Lord

fGilford * (" an exceedingly good-looking boy "), Baird

(" a very nice youngster "), Elphinstone,J and others.
With them he had some delightful excursions on shore
-- among others a very jolly picnic given by about

twenty gunroom officers of the Grampus to an equal

number of the gunroom     aoff"iceversry omf etmheoraCbolellinegvweonotd."
Markham alludes to it as

to him.

   On the 3rd of September they left for Valparaiso, a
voyage that took sixty-nine days to accomplish !

This was the longest time they had been at sea at one
stretch, and without sighting land or even a sail. Their

fresh provisions were all consumed long before they

reached Valparaiso, and they had to be content for

many days with ship's fare. Before they left Honolulu,

sad news had reached them regarding French atrocities
at Tahiti, which aroused Markham 's indignation to

fever-heat. During the long sea-voyage across to South

America he was very irate, and nervously excited

whenever he thought of it. He was perfectly all

right when he was with his messmates in the gunroom,

or when he was under instruction, or reading; but during

his night watches, when he was by himself and had

nobody to talk to, he would brood over the unhappy

state of the natives, and plan all sorts of schemes by

which the    poor  cTaallheditiaint s"  could be freed from      their
oppressors.    He                       building castles in the  air."

    * Admiral of the Fleet the Earl of Clanwilliam, G.C.B.
    t Admiral Sir John Baird, K.C.B.
    X Lord Elphinstone.
ch.v]  CRUISING IN THE PACIFIC                                                                  83

His great idea was to fit out a corsair with Mr. Grant

as captain, then to get all the Pacific islanders to rise
against the French and drive them away. He was so
absorbed at times in the construction of his aerial

fortresses as to neglect, or rather forget, his duties,

and to such an extent as to call forth on one occasion

a rebuke for inattention from Mr. Hankey, his officer
of the watch. However, he knew very well how to
              htaoimfwawivnoheuartn--ahmenaecmdaellle"yd, bu"bcyeallguhosoint"gbrmdeoiwxwe.n"d
get restored                                                                                    below
and making                                                                                        This
consisted of                                                                                     with

spice, sugar, and other ingredients, which compound,
it appears, invariably condoned any unimportant
dereliction of duty.

   On their arrival at Valparaiso, they found H.M.S.

Carysfort commanded by Captain George Henry Seymour,
the Admiral's son, but the most exciting news was
the promotion of their Commander and First Lieu
tenant, Commander Broadhead and Lieutenant Hankey.
The loss of the two senior executive officers of the ship

was a very serious one, especially as they were both
such excellent officers. The Commander was regarded
as one of the smartest officers in the Navy, and he had
undoubtedly been mainly instrumental in making the
Collingwood a smart and happy ship. Markham felt
their loss very keenly. They had both taken a great
interest in him, had always treated him with kindness,

and had given him their friendship.
                         CHAPTER VI

                              HOMEWARD-BOUND

Great and important were the changes that had to be

made in the Collingwood consequent on the promotion
of the officers referred to in the last chapter. Mr.
Somerville became the Commander, and on him devolved
the arduous and important work that is inseparable
from the special duties of the senior executive officer
of a large man-of-war. But the shoes of so good and
popular an officer as Commander Broadhead were not
easy to fill. Beauchamp Seymour had been promoted
to Acting Commander of the Cormorant, and Mr.
Kynaston had taken his place as Flag Lieutenant
to the Admiral. Sherard Osborn had been promoted
to Lieutenant, but, although he left the gunroom
mess, he remained in the ship as Gunnery Lieutenant.
Many other new officers joined, among them Count
Ladislav Karolyi, who had been educated at Eton,
but was in the Austrian Navy. He was a charming
Hungarian, and he and Markham became great
friends. Two other Lieutenants, Shears and Lacey, and
a large batch of naval cadets, also joined, so that
Clements Markham was relieved of the position he had
held so long --namely, that of being the junior officer

a"inbloitkahered,ashowinphe. it"eTswnqiougignoetetrhde"r;fryaigonuhdntfgsusotl,leyrb,s"einawgnedrmetuhacelhsoottrhoeeocreuivwgealdys

for the Collingwood, they were promptly sent away to
other vessels !

   Christmas Day, 1846, he spent on shore at Lady
Seymour's, where they had great fun, ending up with a

                                                               84
ch. v1]  HOMEWARD-BOUND     85

dance in the evening; but what gave Markham most
pleasure was to find that the family was as cordial to
him as ever. He always enjoyed being with them, and
was a frequent visitor at their house.

    Some little excitement was created one night by the
sudden outbreak of fire on board two of the merchant
vessels at anchor in the harbour. As it happened during
Markham's watch, he was sent in one of the Colling-

wood's boats to render assistance. Before the flames

 had made much progress, he pluckily went aloft, followed
 by his boat's crew, and cut away the sails from the
 yards of one of the vessels that was threatened by the
 fire, while the other boats towed her away from the
 conflagration. Thus she was saved, but two other ships

 in the immediate vicinity were completely destroyed.

 It was a beautifully calm, starlight night, and the work

 on which he was engaged was most exciting.
     He made many friends on shore, at whose houses

 he was always a very welcome guest. This enabled him
 to improve his knowledge of the Spanish language,
 which he found of great value in after-years. Among
  others, he made the acquaintance of a family named
 Valdivia, residing in a charming villa on the outskirts
  of the town. The household consisted of an old lady
  called Mamita, and six very pretty and agreeable

  daughters, named respectively Carmencita, Pepita,
  Ponchita, Merced, Dominga, and Tomasa. During his
  first visit he was accompanied by one of his young
  messmates, Mr. Jones, who was nicknamed "Gallows"
  Jones (a nickname that stuck to him throughout his
  naval career), and we must assume that he was intro

  duced to the ladies under that appellation, for they
  always alluded to the two friends as Don Clemente and
  Don Galloso !

     At this time two of his shipmates, Dr. Spear and Mr.
  Wemyss, who had been very ill for some time, were about

  to be sent to the hospital in Valparaiso. Markham
  thought it would be better, and certainly more amusing

                         7
86                   HOMEWARD-BOUND                             [ch. v1

for them, if his kind friends would take them in at their
villa. They were only too delighted to do so. Mark-
ham undertook all the necessary arrangements, and

personally           stuhpeer"intVeanldleed     the conveyance  of the   two
invalids to                                  del Duque," where    they  were

kindly received and hospitably entertained by the whole

sfaamysi,ly".    He  saw them comfortably established            and, as he
               with  all the nice girls to wait on them         and amuse

them." Possibly he was a little disappointed that he
could not also be ill, and sent to the villa, so that he

might be waited on by such charming attendants.

  It was with great reluctance that they bade farewell

to their kind Chilian friends, and on the 23rd of March,
1847, they sailed from Valparaiso. Ten days' sail

took them to Callao, during which time Markham

succeeded in completing his History of the Pacific

Station.* He had made many friends among the

officers of other ships on the station, and many of these

became lifelong friends. Some rose to great distinction

in the Navy and in other walks of life. But what was

of more importance was, that he became more reconciled

to his career in the Service, and was even on good and

friendly terms with the Naval Instructor ! Perhaps

the event which assisted most materially in making

him more contented with his lot, besides giving him great

pleasure, was his selection by the new Commander for

the appointment of midshipman of the foretop, a posi

tion he had long desired. The first thing he did on

obtaining it was to make out a list of all the foretop

men, about 100 in number, in which he gives a full

description of their personal appearance, their zeal,

activity aloft, family histories, and every little incident

connected with their lives that came to his knowledge ;

and more especially any particular accomplishments in

which they individually excelled.

  * It is much to be regretted that there is no trace of the existence
of this ambitious work. It would be exceedingly interesting to

compare it with our knowledge of the station at the present time.
ch. v1]           HOMEWARD-BOUND                87

   He made a point of never reporting any of these
men to the Commander. If, in his opinion, they had

misconducted themselves in such a way as to deserve

punishment, he gave a broad hint to the captains of

the foretop, who would administer summary castiga-

tion to the offenders during a night watch. This he

found was very efficacious, and he also had the satis

faction of being made aware that the men preferred

this mode of punishment to being reported to the

Commander. He used to remonstrate with them on

the pernicious and injurious habit of drinking, but he

would never  sarye,po"rt    them for   getting   drunk; for, as
he used to                he disliked  others   to meddle with

his foretop men." His ideas had undoubtedly a

somewhat socialistic tendency; but needless to say he

was beloved by all the men, especially by those who

came directly under his authority. Sailors--and we
allude especially to the British man-of-war's man --
love to be taken notice of, even if that notice is only

the result of finding fault : better that than no notice

be taken of them at all ! But when it comes to being

interested in their personal history, their domestic

lives, and everything they have done or seen since they

can remember, and when this interest emanates from

one of their own officers, it is not only appreciation

that they feel, but an esteem that binds them to that

officer with an iron bond of friendship and affection,

genuine and enduring.

Markham had now attained the zenith of his desires,

the height of his early professional ambition ; he was mid

shipman of the foretop, and he was placed in charge of
the jollyboat. What more could a young officer desire ?

It stimulated his zeal, it gave him fresh interest in the

ship and in the Service, and it satisfied the ambitious

wishes he had formed when first he set foot on board

the Collingwood.

During the stay of the ship at Callao several of the

gunroom officers (including Markham) clubbed together
88                            HOMEWARD-BOUND                                [ch.v1

and rented a small house, consisting of three rooms, with
iron gratings for windows, having a flat roof and a back
yard. This they found extremely convenient, for it gave
them a place in which to keep the things they required
for their frequent picnics and excursions to the banks of

the Rimac. On one occasion seven of the gunroom

officers sustained a siege in this house by an enraged
mob of natives, which might have led to serious con

sequences. Markham shall tell the story in his own

words :

     ·'  One day we           c*amweithbaucsk  to  our house at dusk. We
          Boy Osborn                           to  carry the picnic basket.
had                                                shifting our clothes, when
It was nearly dark, and we were
a man rushed in (I think he was the mate of an English

merchant ship), and asked for protection, saying that
he was being hunted by an infuriated mob of natives.
We asked h1m what he had done, and he said he had
inadvertently run one of them through the arm with
a sword stick. We resolved to defend the place. In
less than five minutes the mob was howling round the
remises, banging at the door, which we just had time to
E ar,    aknndivpersi.singIt  at the rejas.^      Most of  the negroes      had
long                           was clearly     necessary   to hold the      roof
as well as the backyard. The door and window gratings
were pretty safe for a time. There were eight of us,
count1ng the fugitive. Four of us went on the roof,
and the rest watched the door, and passed up missiles
Jfrom the backyard. There was, luckily, a great heap,

chiefly broken pieces of adobe in a corner. Boy
Osborn, being a negro, would easily get through the
crowd,   so,   as the liberty men would be          about assembling
at the   pier                                       him down to say
               to wait for the boat, I sent
that we were besieged, and to tell the men to come and
help. We               him    over the             backyard wall and
he went.       Aptut  that    moment           the  hoathlferofsidae.hugIe    away
appeared above the                             the                           negro
                               wall on                                      sent a
lump of adobe right into his face, and he disappeared.
The fun now became fast and furious. Those on the
roof kept pelting the mob in the street with missiles

* Boy Osborn was the negro boy who formed half the crew of
the dinghy when Markham was in charge of her.
f The iron gratings in the windows.
                                                    J Sun-dried brick.
ch. vr]                HOMEWARD-BOUND                               89

which    we passed up to  them             while  we defended  the  back
yard.     This went on    until             the   door began   to   show
sAylml pwtaosmslostof                      to the efforts of
                       ifyiietldfianigled    us, and things    the besiegers.
                                                              began to look
serious. Just then we heard a cheer, and the liberty
men dashed into the crowd and soon dispersed it. We
then went down to the boat surrounded by our rescuers."

   No mention is made of anybody getting into trouble
in consequence of this somewhat unseemly fracas. Had
the irate mob succeeded in getting into the house, its
defenders would without doubt have fared badly at their

hands.

   It was during this visit to Callao that Markham first

had the pleasure of meeting Captain Kellett,* of H.M.S.
Herald, who was then engaged in the survey of various
parts of the Pacific. From him he received much kind

ness and instruction in nautical surveying, being fre
quently taken across to the island of San Lorenzo for

practical training in the work of this particular and
important branch of the naval service.

   Meanwhile his studies and his yearnings had aroused

ambitions altogether foreign to his profession. The
height of his aspirations now was to become an explorer

and a great geographer. It was not very long before

his ardent desires were to be fully realised. He had
been much impressed by the lines of Shakespeare in
which the poet refers respectively to the three noblest
careers of man -- the warrior, the explorer, and the
student :

              " Some to the wars to try their fortunes there,
                  Some to discover islands far away.
                  Some to the studious universities."

   He had cause to be dissatisfied with the first of these
callings, and he therefore turned his hopes to the other
two. He thought it would be possible for him to carry
out his wishes in combination with his work in the Navy,

   * Captain Kellett was subsequently employed in the Arctic Region s
in the search for Sir John Franklin.
oo             HOMEWARD-BOUND                               [ch. v1

and even went so far as to write to his father and

request him to take steps with a view to his being

appointed to some other ship on the Pacific Station,

after the Collingwood was paid off. But he had mis

givings after his letter was despatched, for he felt

that he was drifting away from his friend Lieutenant

Peel's ideal.

    The old Inca antiquities at Lima had always fascinated
him. To visit Cuzco, the ancient capital of the Incas,

now became the goal of his ambition. He even attended

a grand ball given by the President of Peru at the

palace in Lima, not so much, we are convinced, on

account of the dancing or other pleasing diversions, but

because he wanted to be shown the room in which Pizarro

had been assassinated. He was informed, however, to

his great disappointment, by one of the President's staff,

that the house in which Pizarro was killed was on the

opposite side of the plaza, and not in the palace.

    After a long stay of four and a half months at Callao,

the Collingwood returned to Valparaiso, and there she

remained waiting for her relief for over seven months

(if we except a short trip to the island of Juan Fernan
dez), until she sailed for England.

    Markham was always a great reader, and he was

especially  devoted to historical                      w"oTrkhsi,rtysucYheaarss'AlWisoanr,'s"
            owf oErkusro, pReo,b" erStcshoinll'esr'"s  America," and books of
"History

Prescott's

a like description. But at the instance of Mr. Wemyss,
who advised him to keep up his knowledge of Latin,

he perused all the books in that language he could get

hold of; these included the works of Virgil, the Odes of

Horace, and others. Some of these he read with Mr.
Wemyss, who most good-naturedly described the places

in the Mediterranean alluded to by Virgil, which he him

self had visited. He also explained                    to   h"imiEtnheeida.l"lusions
to Homeric stories and episodes in                     the

    He made many excursions in the neighbourhood

of Valparaiso during their long stay there, and on one
ch.v1]        HOMEWARD-BOUND                                       91

occasion, it   is interesting to  "noattea,  he met  "a  fat English
lout riding   horses bareback                farm.   He  was named

Arthur Orton, and afterwards attained unenviable no
toriety as the Tichborne Claimant. But one of the

most enjoyable trips he made was at the invitation of

Captain and Miss Seymour, who invited him to accom

pany them as their guest to Santiago, the capital of
Chile, to witness the ceremony of the celebration of the
anniversary of the Independence of that nation. In

order to do honour to the occasion, Markham invested
in a white felt sombrero with long silver tassels, a very

expensive gray poncho beautifully embroidered with
leaves in green silk (to wear over his uniforn jacket),
black leggings with green stripes, and large Chilian

spurs ! The party consisted of Captain and Miss Sey
mour and her maid, Count Karolyi, Mr. Gore, and
Markham. The men rode; Miss Seymour and her maid

followed in a veloche.*
   The first night they slept at Casa Blanca, where

Markham was very affectionately greeted by his old

friend Mrs. Fenwick.f the landlady of the inn, to the
great amazement of
alluded to the good  hlaisdycoamsp"anMioanrsk,hawmho'seavuernta.f"terwSaerndds

ing their luggage on ahead, they started again early the
following morning. To quote Markham 's diary:

   " We rode through a very beautiful country remind
ing me of a neglected English park bounded ahead by
the range of mountains we had to cross. Arriving at
the foot of the pass, called the Cuesta de Zapata, we
had to dismount and lead our horses up a very steep
but good zigzag road. From the summit there was an
enchanting view of the next valley, with a still higher
range of mountains beyond. Descending the pass, we
reached the pretty village of Curacavi, surrounded by
fruit-trees in full blossom. It being noon, we had
dinner and rested for a couple of hours. Riding through
many miles of pastureland interspersed with bushes
and clumps of trees, we at last came to the more for-

* A two-wheeled vehicle with a hood.                 f See p. 73.
92             HOMEWARD-BOUND                        [ch. v1

midable Cuesta del Prado where we had no less than
thirty-seven zigzags up which we had to lead our
horses. From the summit a magnificent view burst
upon us. Immediately below, the extensive plain of the
Maypu stretched before us, green and fertile, with the
towers of Santiago just dist1nguishable in the far dis
tance. Beyond was the long range of the Andes,
appearing to rise like a wall out of the plain, and ter
minating in snowy peaks. The evening was clear, and
there were no clouds. The snowy he1ghts rose quite
dazzling with the light of the setting sun. After we had
descended   the pass  and ridden       for some miles across
the plain,            to get dark,
            it began                   and I was very tired
when we arrived at Sant1ago late at night. Captain and
Miss Seymour were hospitably received in the house of
our old friend Don Rafael Correa, but, owing to the
hotel being nearly full, Count Karolyi, Mr. Gore, and
myself, had to sleep in one room."

The day after their arrival they were presented to the

President, General Don Manuel Bulnes, who greeted

them very cordially, and invited the whole party to

form part of his personal staff at the official ceremony.

He is described as a very fat man, and when they all

dismounted from their horses, and were taken into a

tbeanctk,foarndlun"cdheevoonu, reHdis    Excellency   remained on horse
                                       his mutton    chop on the pommel

of his saddle," the exertion of dismounting being too

much for him.

After the festivities incidental to the celebration of

this important anniversary had been brought to a

conclusion, they spent a couple of very happy days

at the hacienda of some friends situated on the banks

of Lake Aculeo, some forty miles from Santiago.

The journey both ways was accomplished on horse

back. The scenery was magnificent as well as in

teresting, for they traversed the battle-field of Maypu,

and had the main features of the contest (which re
sulted in the independence of Chile) clearly explained
to them. The hacienda, which they reached shortly

after sunset, was a long low building with a wide
ch. v1]  HOMEWARD-BOUND  93

verandah in front. An excellent dinner awaited their
arrival, but the bedrooms had very scant furniture.
Mfoonalllroykwh"ianbmgeddssahoyanrewtdhaesaflsorpooeronmat nd"woaitnhbutCchkoeeutnlattkoeK,waawrsohalnyidin,e.r"ihnagvTihnineg

the woods, bathing, sitting under the trees, and chat
ting with the sefioritas, who sang songs to a guitar
accompaniment." On this trip they were away for

fourteen days.

   While at Valparaiso, Markham did not neglect his
friends at Valle del Duque, where he was a constant

and most welcome visitor. The ladies used frequently to
visit the Collingwood and have tea in the gunroom mess.

   In order to prevent the officers and men from getting

rusty by too long a stay in harbour, the Admiral took
the ship over to the island of Juan Fernandez, and
remained there for about ten days. This greatly de
lighted everyone on board, especially young Markham,
to whom the island of Robinsoe Crusoe was a veritable

enchanted isle of history and romance! From the

ship, as she sailed up to her anchorage, the valleys

looked green as emerald, the lofty peaked moun
tains being clothed to their summits in verdure. The

shore itself was still more delightful. Forest trees and
brilliantly coloured flowers grew in all directions. The
little stream that trickled down to the sea was lined
with flowers of every hue, and wild peach and apple
trees flourished in abundance. The inhabitants con

sisted only of one Chilian family and an American
carpenter. These lived in five huts with their poultry
and domestic animals. In the more secluded parts of

the island were herds of wild-goats. Fish were easily
obtainable, consequently fishing lines and hooks were
in great demand. Rock cod and crayfish abounded, and

were caught without much trouble.
   The day after their arrival, Markham and Good-

enough landed with the intention of exploring the
island together, and enjoying a really happy day, but
94          HOMEWARD-BOUND                [ch. v1

the result was somewhat disastrous. They were both

well acquainted with the history of the island, from

reading De Foe's enchanting work, and they were

eager to satisfy themselves regarding the exact site

of the cave and the position of the lookout place of
Alexander Selkirk. In doing so they attempted to

climb a long spur thickly covered with dense vegetation,

with steep precipices on either side. After scrambling

up through the thick scrub for a long time, they thought

they must have reached the summit, when Goodenough

turned at right angles to the direction in which they had

been travelling, followed by Markham a few paces

behind.  "  Suddenly the  latter heard a  crash and a faint
cry of      Stop !" This  was probably    the saving of his

life. Instead of being on the summit of the ridge as they

thought, they had actually reached the edge of one of

the precipices forming the sides of the spur up which

they had been climbing, and over this poor young

Goodenough had fallen.

    Markham, realising the situation, crawled to the edge,

but he could see nothing owing to the dense vegetation

by which he was surrounded. Goodenough 's voice

sounded very faint and far below him. He was able,

however, to tell Markham that he was lying on a narrow

ledge, and that there was a steep precipice immediately

below him. He was hurt and required immediate

assistance. Markham did all he could to mark the

exact spot, and then made the best of his way to the

beach. Fortunately, he found a boat there which at

once took him off to the ship. A relief party started

without delay, provided with ropes, axes, and all neces

sary appliances, not omitting blankets and a medical
officer. But, alas ! it was dark before they reached the

shore, and the darkness became more intense as they

advanced into an almost impenetrable forest. It soon

became evident that further progress was impossible,

so, accepting the inevitable, they lay down as they were in

the bush, and got what sleep they could in the intervals
ch. v1]  HOMEWARD-BOUND  95

of shouting and listening for a reply. But all was silent ;
no answering hail came from the poor sufferer ; nothing
but the screech of an owl responded to their calls.

   At earliest dawn they renewed the search, and at

length they were rewarded by hearing a faint response,
but high up on the face of the precipice. While the
necessary arrangements for rescue were being made,
the object of their search suddenly appeared and gave
the following account of his adventure: He had fallen
over the edge of the cliff as Markham had related, but

had landed on a narrow ledge which broke his fall. He
had passed the night in this perilous position without
daring to move, and suffering great pain from a badly
sprained wrist and a much bruised body. He had heard

the shouts from the relief-party during the night, and
had endeavoured to reply to them. When it was day

light he found he was just able to creep along the ledge,
although at the imminent risk of falling 200 feet.

Eventually the ledge seemed to get wider, and he had

less difficulty in making progress. At last he came

out on the spur and was safe. Curiously enough, the
first person he met was Sir George Seymour, for nearly
everybody had landed from the ship in order to join in

the search and the rescue. Goodenough certainly had
a miraculous escape, but with God's blessing he was

spared to complete a life most serviceable to his country,
and to meet an honourable death in the performance
of his duty. Few names are more revered or held in
more affectionate remembrance in the annals of the
Navy than his.

    On the 17th of December the ship returned to Val
paraiso, and two or three days afterwards Markham was
laid up with a severe attack of dysentery, probably the
result of his exposure at Juan Fernandez. In a week's
time he became worse, and had to be confined to a cot
in the sick-berth.* But he was not happy and was
very irritable. The sick-bay attendant provoked him,

     * Commonly called the " sick-bay "-- i.e., the ship's hospital.
96           HOMEWARD-BOUND                                                                                       [ch. v1

and he could not bear him to approach his cot. He                                                                           1

became slightly delirious, and insisted on having two
of his beloved jollyboat boys to attend him. This the

Commander kindly consented to, as the doctor reported

that he must not be in any way agitated or have his
wishes thwarted. They did everything for him--sat by

his cot, made his bed, fed him when he was too weak

to feed himself, and proved most gentle and attentive

nurses.

    One day the doctor looked especially grave, and the

chaplain, who as a rule only visited the sick-bay on

Sundays, came in and read prayers to him. Markham
rhaeaspkmleieddsha:iisd":jYo"lolyuTbhomeautsdtoactnttooetrnsdthaminnutksitfohfhesauvwceahsgadivytehinninggm. ."e
                                                                                                                  The boy
                                                                                                                     Mark-

                                                                                                                   up, be

cause the chaplain has come to see me on a weekday."

He got much weaker, and then he had a long refreshing

sleep. When he woke up, one of his jollyboat boys was

holding his hand, and he put some fresh milk to the

invalid's lips. Markham felt then that he was not going
to die, and began rapidly to mend. In a week's time

the doctor told him he would pull through, but that he

had been at death's door.

    While convalescent, reading was his favourite occu

pation, and before he was quite well again he read

through the  whole  "seIrvieasnhoofe.S"ir  Walter  Scott's novels,
commencing   with                                  six weeks be
                                           It was
fore he entered the gunroom after leaving it for the

sick-bay. When he was well enough to go on shore,

his kind friends the Seymours insisted on his going to

their house for a fortnight, where he was soon restored

to complete health and strength. He returned to his

duties on the 20th of February, 1848, and what gave

him more pleasure than anything else was the warm

reception that was accorded him by the foretop men

and the crew of the jollyboat !
   On the 3rd of April, to the great joy of everyone on

board the Collingwood, their relief, H.M.S. Asia, for
ch. v1]  HOMEWARD-BOUND                             97

whose appearance they had been patiently waiting for

so many months, arrived and anchored in the bay.

The new Commander-in-Chief was Rear-Admiral Phipps-

Hornby, his son, Geoffrey Phipps-Hornby, being his

Flag Lieutenant.

Then came the inevitable farewells. They were

many, for Markham had many friends, and the adieux

were all of a more or less affectionate nature. There

were his dear friends at the Valle del Duque, Mamita

and all her daughters;    atthethep"rimfirast  donna, Signorina
Rossi; even Mrs. Diggles
                                               post-house "; the

landlord of the hotel ; the confectioner ; the shoemaker ;

the proprietors of  the  "livheardy  stables;  and, as Markham
na1vely remarks,    he               paid all  their bills." No

one was forgotten.

  On the nth of April the Collingwood, homeward-

bound, sailed out of Valparaiso Harbour amid the cheers

from the squadron assembled to bid her farewell. Fine

weather was experienced, and they made an excellent

passage, passing well in sight of Cape Horn on the 27th
of April, and reaching Rio on the 13th of May, where
they spent ten very pleasant days. They passed within

sight of the Azores on the 3rd of July, and on the 9th

anchored at Spithead, after an absence from England

of nearly four years. During this period they had

sailed a distance of over 83,000 miles, and Markham

had practically passed from boyhood to manhood. He

had visited many countries, had become intimately

acquainted with their inhabitants, his mind had ex

panded, his views regarding the necessity of protecting

natives that are unable to defend themselves had

widened, and his love for geography, especially for

geographical discovery, was more ardent than ever.

On the following day the Collingwood entered Ports

mouth Harbour, where his father, mother, and brother,

had arrived to welcome him home. He had a long and

serious conversation with his father regarding his

future, and expressed with some shyness and reticence
98                HOMEWARD-BOUND                                     [ch.v1

his wish to leave the Service, without putting his real                         1

reasons fully before him. His father, however, did not

consider his reasons sufficiently forcible to justify such a

course, more especially in view of the excellent account he

had received regarding his conduct, progress, and zeal,

from Captain Smart; and he hoped that his son's wish to

leave the Navy was only the expression of a temporary

discontent which would pass away when the causes

that gave rise to it were no longer in existence. He

therefore urged his son to give up the idea, saying that

there was really nothing to make him disheartened.

Young Markham was unconvinced, but he agreed to

defer to his father's wishes.

   The old Collingwood was paid off on the 20th of July,

Markham 's eighteenth birthday. He bade farewell to

all his foretop men with great regret, and he had much

to say to each member of the jollyboat's crew, shaking

hands with them all and bidding them good-bye before
proceeding to his home at Windsor. In spite of his

vexatious troubles on board the Collingwood, he always

regarded the time he served in her as among the hap

piest years of his life. He made many good and lifelong

friends, was never tired of praising the ship as being

one of the smartest and most efficient men-of-war in

the Service, and was impressed with her immeasurable

superiority as regards discipline, smartness, and com

fort, over all other ships of which he had experience.

In after-years Markham writes of her:

It  " The Collingwood never     had another commission.
     was as if the desecration   could not be allowed of
            with  lgolworeier dtoinnethaendproetsheenrcewoafysthien   the same
other men   once                                                     Seymours
ship which
and their friends. One such commission was to stand
alone, and the beautiful hull was left for years to come
as a sad monument of its glories."

   Thus the Collingwood ever remained as his beau-
ideal of what a British man-of-war should be. In his

eyes she was a perfect model of beauty and efficiency,
CH. v1]  HOMEWARD-BOUND  99

and her officers (with perhaps a few exceptions) were in
his opinion the most capable, the most cultured, the
most agreeable, of any set of officers that he had ever
met. She was certainly a very happy ship during the
four years she spent on the Pacific Station, and there is
little doubt that the general good feeling which existed

on board was largely due to the courtesy, friendliness,
and good example, shown by their gallant Admiral,
who was not only their chief from a naval point of view,
but also their friend and adviser on all occasions. He

was indeed a preux chevalier of the old school .
                     CHAPTER VII

                      IN THE MEDITERRANEAN

Markham's return, after an absence of four years,
was a source of no little delight both to his home
circle and to himself. He longed for the love and
attentions of those nearest and dearest to him, he was
eager to pour out all his troubles into their sympathetic
ears, and to obtain from them that advice with regard
to his future which he knew would be of the greatest
value and comfort to him. Nor was he disappointed.
His father listened attentively to all he had to say, and
gave him such counsel as made him happy and con
tented. Thus was he enabled thoroughly to enjoy his
well-earned leave.

   But all good things must come to an end, and within
a few weeks of his return he received instructions to

report himself on board the Victory, the guardship at
Portsmouth. Here he was kept for six weeks with very
little advantage either to himself or the Service, when
he was ordered to join the Bellerophon for passage to
the Mediterranean, having been appointed to H.M.S.
Sidon on that station.

   The Bellerophon, which he joined on the 16th of
October, was an old line-of-battle ship carrying seventy-
eight guns. She had been recently employed in the
transport of troops and in the conveyance of naval
supernumeraries to foreign stations. The state of her
discipline, efficiency, and cleanliness, afforded a striking
contrast to the Collingwood, and tended to renew that
distaste for the Service which had possessed Markham
CLEMENTS MARKHAM AS A MIDSHIPMAN (AGED l8).

                                                                                                         To face /di't loo.
ch.vn]    IN THE MEDITERRANEAN                      101

during the past two or three years. He was astonished

and disappointed.
As an instance of the lack of discipline that prevailed

on board, he relates the following incident that occurred

at the time he joined her : The Commander was investi

gating on the quarter-deck the case of a marine who had

been charged with drunkenness. The Captain, happen

ing to come on deck, walked up to the Commander and

inquired  what the  man   had been        doing. The prisoner
told the   Captain  to "  mind his        own business," and

promptly knocked him down. In all probability the

man was under the influence of drink. He was tried

by a court-martial and sentenced to be hanged, but this

was subsequently commuted to transportation for life.

Such discreditable and mutinous occurrences were un

known on board the Collingwood, and would naturally

contribute to the feeling of disfavour with which he

regarded his new ship. The contrast between the two

vessels was most marked; and this, together with the

radical principles that existed in the gunroom mess,
helped to revive the old discontent. At the time this
was much to be deplored; but it was in reality a
blessing in disguise. There is no doubt that it was in

consequence of his immediate surroundings, intensely

displeasing to him, that he made up his mind to leave

a Service with which he was so little in sympathy.
Yet, in spite of the feeling engendered by his experi

ences on board the Bellerophon, he left her with real

regret ; for although he expressed himself very strongly

regarding her  tinheaftficsiheencwyasas"  a man-of-war, he always
acknowledged                              full of charming fellows,"

whose kindness to him and delightful friendship always

afforded him the most pleasing recollections. They

were all so bright and full of fun, and this made the

time he spent on board a very happy period, replete

with amusing incidents.

On their arrival at Palermo, they found that the

Independence of Sicily had been proclaimed and a

                                          8
1o2           IN THE MEDITERRANEAN                     [ch. vn

National Flag had been hoisted, but, as it had not been
                                                  it was not saluted.
recognised by the    Gflaregawt asPo"wethrsre, e  red legs kicking out
The emblem on the

on a white field." From Palermo they went on to

Naples, where they were placed in quarantine for ten

days owing to the existence of cholera in England.
At Naples he was transferred from the Bellerophon

to the Howe (a three-decker), in order to await the
arrival of the Sidon. He was allowed plenty of leave,

an indulgence of which he took full advantage, and he

made many     friends on shore.   T"oGhailslogwresa"t  joy, he found
that his old  Collingwood friend                       Jones was on

board the Odin, one of the vessels forming the English
squadron, and they had many excursions together. Of

course Vesuvius was ascended, and he had the question

able gratification of looking down the crater from the

summit and inhaling strong whiffs of sulphurous vapours!

He visited Pompeii, and spent a pleasant day in the
palace and gardens of Caserta. In short, he went to

every place of interest that could possibly be reached,

always in the company of one or more of his old friends.

Their visit to Naples was made during a most un
settled period, for it was during the interval between

the great fight in the Strada Toledo and the arrival of

the Pope from Gaeta. Affrays in the streets between

the military and the populace were frequent. On one

occasion Markham was witness of the savage butchery

of a poor one-armed man who was mercilessly cut down

in the street. On another occasion he happened, un

willingly, to be present at a street fight among the

lazzaroni at Santa Lucia. Knives were drawn, pots and

other such missiles were thrown about, and eventually
one of the combatants was stabbed. In an instant the
crowd disappeared as if by magic, and nothing human

was to be seen except the bleeding corpse lying in the

middle of the road.

The King did not dare to show his face in public, but

he very kindly placed two boxes in the opera-house at
ch.vn]  IN THE MEDITERRANEAN                                           103

the disposal of the foreign officers every night, so that
Markham was frequently able to indulge in his favourite

visits to San Carlo.* On one occasion he relates how a

young prima donna was hissed, and in a fury she rushed
off the stage and refused to return. Presently she was

brought back to the front by a couple of soldiers and

compelled to sing. He does not say how the compulsion

was effected.

Being at the opera one evening, one of his messmates

rushed in and informed him that his chest and all his

belongings had been sent on board the Vengeance, and

that she had sailed for Malta. This was indeed alarm

ing intelligence. He rushed out of the opera, flew down
to Santa Lucia, hired a boat, and, without even going
on board the Howe, started in pursuit. Fortunately it

was almost calm, and he actually caught the Vengeance
                                        himself on board. It was how
oefvferIsc"hitao,ucahndarnedpogrtoe,d"
                                        the situation being only saved
by his quick decision and resolute course of action. It

was not until the 30th of December that he had the
satisfaction of seeing and joining his new ship at Malta.

The Sidon was classed as a steam-frigate carrying
twenty-two guns, and was one of the first steam men-

of-war constructed by the Admiralty. She was the

special emanation of the brain of Sir Charles Napier,
and is thus described by that worthy:
Swihr"icRhInobI1e8trh4t5enPSeuiernl,dGeeinrotvrogitoeekdCtoomcdekob,utorann,bduwcilhidtohseathasestesamamny-cftbriiougnailtdeeo,rf
Mr. Fincham, and for the engine-maker Mr. Seward,
and finally the Sidon was determined. She carries
upwards of 630 tons of coal, her main deck ports are
anremaralyme7ntfeeotf  out of the water, and she has a complete
                       twenty-two sixty-pounders, having a clear
main-deck. . . . She is impelled by an engine of 560
horse-power."

   Markham's           dqeusacrliitpiteios,n,waasftetrhapter"sosnhael  experience of
her sea-going                                                          was lopsided,

                       * The Opera House.
104    IN THE MEDITERRANEAN                           [ch.vd

would never keep upright, and, in spite of two large

bilge pieces, rolled excessively." However, her in

ternal accommodation was very satisfactory, and he

was very comfortable in her. By the Navy generally

she was regarded as an innovation, and was not

looked upon with great favour, although the fact that

she was able to proceed from one port to another,

independent of wind, naturally enhanced her capabili

ties as a fighting ship. Even the most stubborn sup

porters of the old naval blue-water school had to admit

this. Yet there were many who preferred to rely en

tirely on sails as the motive power of a ship, and not upon

engines and boilers that could be rendered impotent by

shot and shell in a few minutes of effective action.

Seventy years have indeed witnessed a great revolution
in the construction, armament, and mobility of our
vessels. At that time there were none of those marvellous

controlling arrangements by which everything on board

a modern man-of-war is not only centralised, but dupli

cated, and in some places triplicated.

Markham soon made friends with all on board. His

manners were most engaging, his knowledge on general

subjects (especially history and geography) were uni

versally acknowledged, he was a most excellent and

interesting companion, and his society was in great

demand. After leaving Malta they had a short stay at

Gibraltar, then crossed over to Tangier and visited all

the ports on the coast of Morocco. This cruise aroused

in him a great interest in Arabian history, and par
ticularly in the civilisation of the Arabs in Spain.

On their return to Gibraltar they found the Mediter

ranean Fleet, under the command of Sir Charles Napier,
at anchor there. As was to be anticipated, it was not

long before they received   a visit  fhroismcrethaetioCno, mthmean"dleorp-
in-Chief, who was eager to  inspect

sided  old Sidon,"   a"s  Markham so irreverently    called her.
He is  described as       a short, broad-shouldered   man with

a large face and staring eyes, his legs too far through
ch. vn]  IN THE MEDITERRANEAN  105

his white duck trousers, his cocked hat athwartships

(in imitation of Nelson), and his nose and upper lip

covered with snuff." He was much addicted to the
habit of snuff-taking, and invariably kept a large supply
loose in his waistcoat pocket.

   Just at this time intelligence reached Gibraltar of an
outrage committed by the Riff pirates on the coast

between Melilla and Ceuta. They had seized, whilst
becalmed, an English brig laden with powder and other
Government stores for Malta, the captain and crew
escaping in their boats on the approach of the pirates.
The brig was towed into a harbour and completely

gutted by the looters. This act of piracy must have
 taken place almost at the same time that the Sidon, all

 unwittingly, was cruising in the immediate neighbour
 hood. Sir Charles Napier determined upon the imme
 diate punishment of the offenders and the salvage of the
 brig. Hoisting his flag on board the Sidon, and em

 barking the 34th Regiment in the same ship at very
 short notice, he proceeded to sea. The expedition
 arrived the following day at Melilla, a small Spanish
 settlement to the east of Cape Tres Forcas. They

 steamed along the coast round the cape to the position
 where the brig was found. Much excitement prevailed
 on board, and all were expecting to receive the order
 for an immediate landing of the troops augmented by
 men from the ship, with the object of inflicting condign
 punishment on the perpetrators of the outrage. But,

 much to their disappointment, no action of an offen
 sive nature was taken, and, after cruising backwards
 and forwards along the coast between Melilla and
 Ceuta for five days, the Sidon returned to Gibraltar
 and disembarked the troops. Subsequently, as the
 result of diplomatic interference, and a combination of
 threats and persuasion, the stores captured from the

 brig were given up, the vessel herself having been re

 captured meanwhile and taken to Gibraltar by the
 Polyphemus. Markham was terribly disappointed at
                                                                                                                                                                              I

106  IN THE MEDITERRANEAN                  [ch. vn

what he called this fiasco. He was longing to " flesh

his maiden sword," and had actually taken it to the

armourer to be sharpened, in the hope of being attached

to the landing-party that had been organised in readi

ness for any eventuality.

Shortly afterwards the Sidon was ordered home. She

arrived at Portsmouth on the 28th of March, and was

paid off on the 1st of April, 1849. Markham appears
to have been very happy on board, although his service

in her was but little over three months. During the

time he was on leave he tried very hard to get an

appointment to the Arrogant, which had just been

commissioned, and to which a great many of his old

shipmates in the Collingwood had been appointed.

But, instead of complying with his wishes, the Ad

miralty promptly appointed him to the Superb. This

want of consideration, as he thought, on the part of

the Admiralty, and failure to fulfil a promise made to

his father, that he should be appointed to the Arrogant,

sealed his fate so far as remaining in the Navy was con

cerned. The ship to which he was appointed remained

at Spithead in a state of absolute idleness for six months

waiting for her crew, and then another weary six months

were spent at anchor in the Cove of Cork.

During all this time he read steadily and worked hard,

but principally on those subjects unconnected with the

cqwSlueianersvesitcmaenuodcfwhhFPiaeicnlrhltueo,rh"efesttahheneadddRionnMmoawtalhcneofulmEpllme'ysrpursie"raseloH,l"ivoseftPdorGreytisbocbooloteftna's'vPsee".r"sCiDoaHn.e"e

His careful study of these works gave rise to theories

in his mind which led him into all sorts of researches

and speculations regarding the origin of the Incas, to

the study of which he had already devoted much time

and attention. He had also been much engrossed in

studying works on geology and metaphysics, which last
he was never weary of discussing. In addition, he brought

out a weekly newspaper in the gunroom entitled The
ch. vn]  IN THE MEDITERRANEAN                       107

Superb, which invariably found its way into the ward

room. Several of his messmates contributed excellent

articles on various subjects, especially on gunnery and

other professional matters. Unfortunately, a para

graph was inadvertently inserted reflecting on the per

sonal appearance of one of the senior officers of the ship,

saunpdprtehsesepdap"erbayftoerrdaerb."rilliant, though brief, career, was

He relates an amusing incident that occurred during

his watch one afternoon while the ship was at Spithead.

He was looking over the side, when he saw a number

of small kegs floating near the ship. He at once re

ported this to the officer of the watch, who sent the

dinghy to pick up as many as was possible before the

Custom-house officials, who were observed pulling out

from Portsmouth Harbour, could arrive. About forty

kegs were secured and quickly sent down to the gun

room mess. They contained the most delicious cherry

brandy. Presently a Custom-house officer boarded

the ship, and inquired of the officer of the watch
if he
         had seen  any kegs     roefplicehder"ryIs  brandy floating
past.              the officer                       that what they
         To which
were? I wish I had known it !" This answer, although

somewhat vague, seemed to satisfy the Custom-house

official, who promptly took his departure and proceeded

to pick up the few kegs that were still floating in the

water. They were afterwards informed that the kegs

had been sunk by smugglers in Langstone Harbour,

and had accidentally broken adrift. Markham observes

dryly that there were very few kegs left for the Custom

house officers to pick up.
In the early part of 1850, while the Superb was lying

inactive in the Cove of Cork, to his great delight he

met his dear old messmate Sherard Osborn, then in

command of the gunboat Dwarf. The pleasure of
meeting was mutual, and, as may well be imagined,

Markham poured out all his grievances, more especially

his distaste for his present inactive life, into the sym
108  IN THE MEDITERRANEAN  [CH.vn

pathetic ears of his old friend. The latter was ready
with a panacea for all Markham's troubles, a remedy
that effectually dispelled his dejection.

    Osborn was full of enthusiasm about the Arctic Regions
and the attempts that were being made to rescue and
relieve Sir John Franklin's expedition, and he speedily
transmitted a very large share of this enthusiasm to
his younger friend, who was only too ready to adopt it.
Five years had passed away since the Erebus and Terror
had left England on their search for a North-West
Passage to India through the icy seas of the Arctic
Regions. No tidings having been heard of the ships
during this long period, a search expedition had been
despatched in 1848 under the command of Sir James

Ross. It returned the following year without any news
of the missing ships. When it was too late, the country

was thoroughly aroused. Ross's ships were recommis-
sioned and sent out to search from the direction of
Behring's Strait; while Captain Horatio Austin was to
lead another expedition by way of Baffin's Bay. The
latter was to consist of two ships, the Resolute and
Assistance, and they were to be accompanied by two
steam- tenders, the Pioneer and Intrepid. Markham's
friend Sherard Osborn had been promised the command
of one of these tenders, the Pioneer, and was naturally

much elated at the prospect before him.

   It did not take long to work up Markham's enthusiasm

for the project. The very idea of being engaged in the
exploration of unknown regions, more especially when
connected with the cause of humanity, stimulated him to
such a degree that he at once wrote off to his father, and

all his friends who had any interest at the Admiralty,
begging them to use their influence in order to get him

appointed to the new search expedition. Osborn also

promised to do what he could for him, and if possible

to take him in his own ship.

   There was no thought now of leaving the Service ; his
interest had been aroused, and his great object in life
ch.vn]  IN THE MEDITERRANEAN                                109

at present was to be employed in the search for Sir John
Franklin and the lost ships. He was ready to sacrifice

anything and everything in order that his wishes might

be realised. He wrote again to his father urging him

to leave no stone unturned in getting him appointed

to the expedition, and he persuaded Osborn to write to

his father and to the Hydrographer recommending him
for such an appointment. The Superb returned to Ply

mouth on the 1st of April, when he found that his exer

tions had not been in vain; for on communicating with

the shore he was informed that he had been selected,

and appointed as midshipman to the Assistance, and that

he was the only midshipman in the expedition.
In spite of the inactive, and to him useless, life that

he had led for more than twelve months in the Superb,

and his delight in being selected for such important and

interesting service, he again speaks of the regret with

which he left his ship. As it was with the Bellerophon

and Sidon, so it was with the Superb: he had made

many friends and was loath to bid them farewell. Many

of the men and boys implored him to take them with
                        All were sorry
him to the Assistance.                  to lose  "hMima.rk  The
boatswain, in bidding   him good-bye,   said:                my

words: you'll perish like the upper hank of a Green-
lander's jib." Another told him he was joining the

vanguard of England's chivalry. He gave a dinner to

all his special intimates, at the hotel, and after paying

his bill found that he had just sufficient money left to
take him up to London -- third-class by the night train.
                     CHAPTER VIII

           THE SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN

Markham proceeded at once to Woolwich to take up
his appointment on board the Assistance. He was
kindly received by his Captain (Erasmus Ommanney),
and was introduced to Captain Horatio Austin, who
commanded the expedition. The officers and men were
still living in hulks, the ships not being ready for their
reception. Among the former he was delighted to find
many old friends of his Collingwood days, notably
Lieutenants Sherard Osborn, M'Clintock, Mecham, and
Dr. Donnet, the surgeon.

   After reporting himself, he obtained a week's leave,
which he spent partly at Horkesley and partly in visit
ing his friends and relations, and also in preparing his
outfit in London. He was fortunate in seeing some
thing of his old friend Captain Peel, who warmly en
couraged his Arctic enthusiasm, and who, we may be
sure, gave him many valuable hints and good advice.
Reaching home, he found his parents in great distress.
They had just received news of the serious illness of his
brother David at Madeira, whither he had been sent for
the benefit of his health. This necessitated their imme
diate departure for Madeira, thus unhappily diminishing
the short time Markham hoped to spend with them.
His brother died on the 17th of May, in his father's
arms, on board the vessel that was conveying him
home, and was buried at sea. The sad news did not
reach England until after the expedition had sailed,
and was brought to Markham in the Arctic Regions

                                       no
ch.vn1] SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN 1n

by the transport sent out to complete the expedition
with stores.

   April was a very busy month for everyone connected
with the enterprise. Stores and provisions to last for an
estimated period of three years had to be taken on board
and stowed in their allotted places ; the crew had to be
selected and duties apportioned to them for which they
individually appeared to be specially suited ; sledges and
their equipments had to be Carefully examined, instru
ments tested; in short, everything that was considered

necessary had to be provided, and carefully stowed away,
by those officers who were responsible for their safety
and efficiency. On the 28th of April the Lords of the
Admiralty inspected the ship ; many others, such as the
Speaker of the House of Commons and Cardinal Wise
man, also came on board. Sir Edward Parry came to
bid them farewell, and spoke words of kind encourage
ment to Markham, remembering having seen and spoken
to him when he was a schoolboy at Cheam.

    The expedition sailed on the 4th of May. The Resolute
and Assistance were towed out by a couple of steam-tugs
which took them up the East Coast and through the
 Pentland Firth as far as Cape Wrath, where they were
cast off on the 14th. The last home letters were written
and despatched, and amid much cheering the tugs bade
them farewell.

    In addition to the four ships under the command of
Captain Austin, the Government deemed it expedient to
employ a couple of whaling brigs under Captain Penny,
a skilful and experienced whaling skipper. Nor would
that old veteran Sir John Ross be denied, but accom
 panied the expedition in a little schooner named the
 Felix, which had been fitted out entirely at his own
 expense. Lady Franklin had also sent out a small
 vessel named the Prince Albert to examine Prince
 Regent Inlet, where she thought it very possible that
 traces of the missing ships might be discovered. Al
 together there were no less than ten vessels engaged in
                                                                 1

112 SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN [ch.v1n

searching the neighbourhood of Baffin's Bay for the
Erebus and Terror* All these vessels, it is needless to
add, were especially prepared for ice navigation, being
strengthened not only at the bows, but in every way
that experience and ingenuity could devise.

   A splendid feeling of comradeship, and a determina
tion to do all in their power to promote the success of

the enterprise, animated every member of the expedi
tion. Many were the discussions regarding their pros
pects of success, and conjectures as to the particular
regions that should be searched. They confidently
expected that, guided by cairns and records and by their
own enthusiasm and resolution, they would be the
means of solving the mystery of the fate of Franklin and
his gallant followers. Five years had elapsed since the
Franklin expedition had left England, and nothing had
been heard of it since it was seen by the whalers in
Melville Bay during the summer of 1845. The ships,
it was known, were provided with provisions to last for
three years. Surely, out of the 130 men who comprised
the crews of the two vessels, some must still be alive?
So they fondly hoped.

   Speaking of his brother officers, Markham writes:

    " There never were more united messmates; hot argu
ments in abundance, anecdotes and good stories innu
merable, and never told twice, but never an unpleasant
or ill-natured word, never a sentence to cause regret or
annoyance."

   This is the true spirit that should prevail among the
members of such an expedition.

   In spite of the fact that their thoughts were so con

stantly engrossed in the serious nature of their work,
they appear to have enlivened the daily routine, every
now and then, by social diversions of a somewhat con-

   * This number includes two vessels under the American flag,
named Advance and Rescue, sent out through the munificence of
Mr. Grinnell, of New York, to co-operate with the English ships
in the search.
ch.v1n] SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN n3

vivial nature. For instance, in the early days at sea a
strip of paper was brought into the gunroom of the
Assistance one day, bearing the following invitation :

                            Capta1n Ommanney

                            At Home.

              Coffee and Music at seven.

In response, all the officers that could be spared from

duty  at that hour assembled                        incothnesistCinagptaoinf 's"  cabin.
Here  they found entertainment                                                    coffee,

sweet biscuits, and cakes, an organ, a tambourine,

sherry, brandy and water, a flute, a fiddle, chess, back

gammon, and singing." What more could be desired ?

It is not stated who performed on the various musical

instruments, but that they thoroughly enjoyed them

selves goes without saying. The evening was finished

"byA  all singing, at the    top                    of their  respective voices,
      rare old plant is the                         green."   These soirees were
                             ivy
continued once a week, so it is quite certain that they

were appreciated.
During the voyage it was arranged to bring out a
monthly paper called the Aurora Borealis. Dr. Donnet

was the  weedreito"r.TheMRarukihnaomf 'as            contributions to the first
number                                              Greenland Colony," a poem

on the Assistance and Intrepid, and an acrostic on Sir
John Franklin. He was, we may be assured, a frequent
contributor.

On the 28th of May, just before they rounded Cape

tFhaerierwfeirllst(thicee.souItthecronnspisotiendt  of Greenland), they sighted
                                                    of loose streams, but was

sufficient warning of heavier ice to come. Consequently

the crow's-nest was hoisted and secured at the foretop-

mast head. From this a clear view could be obtained,

for some miles, of the general movements of the ice,
and from it the ship was invariably navigated when in

the pack. Icebergs were now constantly met, some of

huge dimensions. One was measured, and found to

be 350 feet above the level of the sea. As ice floats
114 SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN [CH.vm

with seven-eighths of its bulk submerged, it follows that
the lower part of this berg must have reached a depth
of 2,450 feet (nearly half a mile) below the surface !

    During his spare time Markham carefully read every
Arctic book that had been published, and was regarded
as quite an authority among his messmates on Arctic
history; so that he was frequently consulted regarding
the work accomplished by Arctic explorers from the
earliest times. Prior to his departure from England, he
had made himself familiar with the instructions that
had been given to Sir John Franklin for his guidance.
Based on this knowledge, he formed the opinion that
the lost expedition had proceeded up Wellington Channel,
but numerous discussions on this particular and interest

ing subject subsequently induced him to change his

views.

   On the 15th of June the squadron reached the Whale-
fish Islands, and here they filled up with stores and
provisions from the transport that had been sent out
for that purpose. The islands abounded with bird-life;
eider-ducks were seen in great quantities, also long-
tailed ducks, red-throated divers, guillemots, razorbills,
kittiwakes, and puffins. Gulls sat in crowds on the
unruffled surface of the sea, and the beautiful Arctic
terns darted about in all directions. Continuous day
light, a calm sea, a clear blue sky, warm weather, and
excellent sport, contributed to the enjoyment of then-
visit to this group of islands.

    Proceeding northwards, threading their way through
innumerable icefields, they passed Upernivik, the most
northern Danish settlement in Greenland, on the 25th
of June. Here they came in sight of several whalers,
also Penny's brigs, all detained at the edge of the ice
in Melville Bay, waiting for the pack to open. Although
they took every advantage of the opening, or slackening,
of the pack, using every means in their power to destroy
or loosen it, even to blasting the ice with heavy charges
of gunpowder, it took them forty-five days to reach the
ch. vn1] SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN n5
" North Water " off Cape York. So unyielding was the

pack that on one occasion they advanced but a mile in

nineteen days !
               York they met several
   Off  Cape   named by Sir John Ross  Etshkeim" oAsrcbtieclonHgiginhg
to the  tribe

landers." Here they made a gruesome discovery.

They were told that a quantity of human remains were

collected together in a hut in the vicinity. Thinking

it possible that these might be associated in some way
with the Franklin expedition, they visited the hut, in

which they discovered a heap of human bodies huddled

together at one side. They were covered over with
sealskins, and it was at first uncertain whether they

were our own countrymen or not ; but on further investi

gation the long black hair, the copper-coloured skin,

and the high cheek-bones, proclaimed them to be the

remains of some Eskimos who had probably perished in

a  recent epidemic.   the "

   Prior to reaching         North Water,"  they  experienced

the usual difficulties of navigation in ice-encumbered
seas. For six weeks they were constantly engaged in

battling with the ice. On occasions, in order to save

the ships from being crushed by the closing in of the

ice, docks had to be constructed in which the vessels

could be safely berthed until the pressure of the pack

relaxed.

   Alarms were frequent, not a day passed without the

occurrence of some excitement ; and as the vessels were

in close proximity to each other, the officers and men

were able frequently to viBit their friends in the other

ships by walking over the ice. Sometimes the ships were

severely nipped, and the pressure was only relieved by

the explosion of an improvised bomb placed under the ice

at the point of greatest pressure. The ships comprising

the expedition were severely handled in their combat with

the pack, but  their crews   peemrseervgeerdedoninththeeiicreelefsfos rt"s  to get
through, and   at last they                                                 North

Water." The whalers, which had been In their company
u6 .SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN [ch. vra

for so long, gave up the attempt some days earlier, and

returned south. But, as Markham observes, "the whalers
thought it was impossible to get through this season;

but for us there could be no such word as impossible.

Get through we must." During the time that they

were  basesesot,mMeaornkehafamcectieoluebslryaterdemhaisrktewde, nt"iehthe  birthday,
but,                                                                        was still

the youngest person in the expedition."

   The time which they spent in the ice of Melville Bay

was thoroughly enjoyed by Markham. It was a time

never to be forgotten. Daylight was continuous, the

scenery was of marvellous beauty, and there was con

stant excitement as well as hard work. Yet in the

sunlit hours of night there was a strange silence away
from the ships, a stillness as if all Nature was at rest.

Crossing the northern part of Baffin's Bay on the 18th

of August, they entered Lancaster Sound and passed

into uninhabited regions. Here they were destined to

spend the ensuing twelve months without communication

with the outside world.

As they sailed along the land, a careful search was

made by the squadron for traces of the missing expedi

tion. The various ships were allocated to different

localities the more efficiently to carry out the search.

Great excitement was caused by the discovery at Cape

Riley (at the eastern entrance to Wellington Channel)

of undoubted indications of the lost ships. A boat's

crew had been despatched from the Assistance to erect

a cairn on the highest point of the cape. The beach

on which they landed was found to be strewn with empty

preserved meat tins, pieces of rope, and articles of the like

nature ; while somewhat higher up the cliff were fragments

of wood and iron hoops, a cairn of stones, broken bottles,

and a few charges of shot scattered about. The dis

covery of the name Goldner on the meat tins proved

conclusively that a party from the Erebus or Terror

must have landed at this particular spot, for Goldner

was the name of the contractor in England who had
cH.vm] SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN 117

supplied Sir John Franklin's ships with preserved
provisions. These were the first visible signs of the
direction in which the lost expedition had proceeded in
its search for a North-West Passage.

    As may be imagined, excitement reigned supreme.

It was an important discovery, for it was an indica

 tion that they were on the right scent. Heated argu

 ments there were in the gunroom as to whether the
 debris had been left on the first visit of the ships,
 or by travelling or perhaps shooting parties that had
 encamped there for a few days. That they were,
 however, bona fide indications of the missing ships was
 placed beyond doubt by the discovery on Beechey
 Island, a few days later, of indisputable evidence that

 Sir John Franklin and his two ships had actually spent

 their first winter in the immediate neighbourhood.
 This consisted in the finding of three graves with neatly
 carved oak headboards, erected to the memory of a

 seaman and a marine belonging to the Erebus, and a
 young man belonging to the Terror. To their intense
 disappointment, however, no record, no intimation,

 could be found as to the direction which Sir John had
 decided to take after his ships had broken out from their
 winter-quarters. So it was with feelings of profound
 regret and disappointment that they left Beechey Island
 early in September to continue the search. But their

 hopes had been raised greatly by their recent dis

 coveries.

     Meanwhile the Assistance was beset and severely
  nipped by the ice in Wellington Channel, and was in
 imminent danger of being crushed. Provisions were
  hoisted up from below, boats were got ready and fully

  equipped, and all preparations made for the immediate
  abandonment of the ship. Before this was necessary,
  however, the pressure of the pack eased, but not until the
  vessel had been raised bodily out of the water to a height
  of 6 or 7 feet by the tremendous force and lifting power
 of the floes. Other exciting incidents followed, and the

                                                                                                                     9
nS SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN [ca.nn

ships had several narrow escapes from destruction. The
season grew late, and further progress was barred by
the young ice then rapidly forming. It was
                                               tihtewreafso--re
decided that the squadron should winter where
namely, in the pack in Barrow Strait, about a mile from
Griffith Island and eight miles from Cornwallis Island.
In this exposed and somewhat precarious position they

remained from the 22nd of September until released

the following summer.

  The four vessels were secured in close proximity to

each other, and were made as comfortable and as safe

for the winter as circumstances would admit. They

were housed over with large awnings made of waggon-

cloth which completely covered them in, protecting

them from wind and snow, and converting the upper

deck into a large and spacious room. The deck itself

was covered with a layer of snow 2 feet deep, and the

hull was further protected from the cold by snow being

banked up round it to the height of 5 or 6 feet. All

superfluous gear was stacked on the ice outside the

ship and several snow houses were constructed on the

floe for various purposes, such as astronomical and
magnetic observatories, powrder - magazine, and the

housing of stores, so as to provide extra space in the ship.
Before settling down to a regular winter routine,

travelling-parties were despatched to lay out depots

of provisions as far as possible along the routes on which
the main sledging - parties would be employed the

following summer. These routes, which had been

thoroughly discussed, were already decided upon by

those who wrere to be engaged in the search, subject of

course to the approval of Captain Austin. Three

parties were despatched. One was under the command
of Lieutenant M'Clintock, who reached a position on
Cornwallis Island about fort)' miles from the ship;
another was under Lieutenant Aldrich, who placed his
depot on Somerville Island; and the third was com

manded by Lieutenant Mecham, who established his
ch.v1u] SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN n9

to the eastward. They started on the 3rd of October,
and were all safely back by the 10th. The departure

of the sun prevented these depot-forming parties from

remaining out longer than the end of October; even

then the days were very short and the nights correspond

ingly and uncomfortably long. These depots were of

the greatest importance. It was incumbent on Captain

Austin to search in every direction from their winter-

quarters, which he took as the central starting-point

not only on account of the knowledge they had gained

of the visit of Franklin's ships to Beechey Island, but

also in conformity with the instructions that Sir John
Franklin had received from the Admiralty. The search

in Wellington Channel was entrusted to Captain Penny,

who, with his two brigs, was wintering at no great dis

tance from Assistance Bay.
The winter passed pleasantly enough. Indeed, it

could hardly be otherwise with such cheery and con

tented crews. Captain Austin was an excellent organiser

and his directions even to the minutest details were

canied out with such an enthusiastic spirit that spoke

volumes for the happiness of all under his command.

Markham bears testimony, also, to the admirable work,

in his own ship, of the First Lieutenant, M'Clintock,

whose special care were the dryness and cleanliness of

the ship, the exercising of the crew, and the scrupulous

carrying out of those regulations specially framed for

the health and comfort of all on board. Special clothing

(gratuitously provided by the Admiralty) was distributed

to each officer and man; and everything that could

possibly be thought of seems to have been done for the

comfort of the men. In case of an outbreak of fire, a

hole was cut in the ice close to the side of the ship.

This had to  be kept open by   the  rqeupaorrttermitas"teorpenof"  the
watch, who   was also obliged   to                                  to

the officer of the watch every four hours. Every small

detail is carefully noted by Markham in his journal.

On the 4th of November the sun just peeped above
120 SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN [ch.vh1

the horizon at noon for the last time that year, then

disappeared and was seen no more for ninety-five days.

But there was always a dim twilight along the southern

horizon at mid-day, even in the depth of winter.

There was much visiting between the officers and men

of the different ships. Numerous dinner-parties were

given, besides theatrical and other entertainments to

which everyone was invited. The monthly journal

known as the Aurora Borealis continued its circulation,

and retained    ofitasrtipcloeps ufloarriitty ontotheth"e Hiesntodr.y  Markham
wrote a series                                                         of Griffith

and Cornwallis Islands," commencing with the trilobites

in the Silurian Age. This was completed in five numbers.

In addition to the numerous articles which he wrote for

the Aurora Borealis, he was also a frequent contributor

to the Illustrated Arctic News, a journal brought out on

board the Resolute under the joint editorship of Sherard
Osborn and McDougal. In January yet another

periodical made its appearance on board the Resolute.

It was entitled The Gleaner, and had a humorous ten

dency. The editors were incognito, but their personality-

was suspected. Thereupon Markham, determined that

the Assistance should not be behindhand in these matters,

began the issue of another                  paper on board his         "shoinpe.
Under its title Minavilins*                 he announced that

of the editorial duties would be to keep a sharp watch
on the Gleaner." Now, it happened that the second

number of the Gleaner contained a scurrilous and quite

unwarrantable attack on one of the officers of the ex
pedition. This was Markham 's chance. It was promptly
answered by an article in Minavilins which not only

withered up the Gleaner with scathing satire, but also

emphasised his remarks by means of several humorous

illustrations. But there was something worse than

Russian censorship on that wintry icepack. This par-

   *  " Minavilins " was  "a   term   well  eknndosw"n    and   frequently used  in
the   Xavy to designate       odds   and                that   are lying about   on
the deck. It is now seldom used.
CH.vm] SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN 121

ticular number was promptly confiscated by order of

the senior officer, and at the same time both the Gleaner

and Minavilins were suppressed altogether.

Schools were instituted for the men, and lectures

given by the officers. At all of these Markham took

a leading part. The winter festivities were opened by

a very jovial soiree given by Captain Austin on board

the Resolute, at which there was a great display of

"mbyufusmniccaatnlioytna.lte"onrct.hIetsG.wuaysThvFeearw"ykcedusa'lrpkDr,iatybu"wt watsahsethceflaonrereiexwdtapsinolpitpurluoapr

cession round all the ships, and was then duly burnt in

a large fire lighted on an iron  gtrhaetin"g   raised  "abwoavse                                            the
ice. But the great event of                   season                                                        the

opening of the Royal Arctic Theatre on board H.M.S.

Assistance on the Prince of Wales's birthday (November
9th). Everything was beautifully arranged, and, with
so many excellent artists in the expedition, the scenery,

especially the drop curtain, was a real       "worirgkgeodf  a"rto.n                                        The
theatre, to use a nautical term, was                                                                         the

upper deck, under the housing, where plenty of space

swwuaebslsl-ekqanuvoeawniltnalybleet.xhteraTvhahisgetaonrizpcaearlfo"prmlBaaoynmc"beCahstaoerpsleesnFetudhreiowTsowit,eh"lftahtnhde"

was produced. The entertainments given were very

popular, and were frequently repeated, generally with
a complete change of programme. All were eager to

assist, so there was no scarcity of performers. Each

ship vied with the others in the variety and popularity

of these entertainments, and they assisted very materially

in making the winter pass, not only quickly, but happily

and cheerily.

   But    aCblalysiantho"esG"eraonfnedstBibvaoitlaierMsda, sqHuh.eoMw."eSvg.eivreRnesspionlelutnthdeei.d",    were
                                                                                                            Royal
eclipsed                                                                                                    Fancy
Arctic

dress was of course compulsory. The scene on board

was of unequalled magnificence. Captain Ommanney

assumed the character of Sir Greasy Hyde Walrus, Mayor
122 SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN [ch. vm

of Griffith Island; but space does not permit a de

i""tsnocJoRraikfeppedtamiponaanelDresteoe. vf,c"iolTtss"hht,e"ueNmricegeh"gsaw.eBraerlsacrM,etc"ekara"srnkSdDhamaonnumdmogligdenlrsceoesarsssmst,,h"e"esano""asfseHBvali"eugllnehAthlalalDopenspegedevoeaiwrrlrysesh.,d/"o"'

His dress was designed to illustrate the indignation which

he felt at what he considered the unjust treatment he had
received by the unwarrantable suppression of Mina-
                   Twce during the evening he was asked, once
vilins !        "
by an              tOoldrepCrehsaeinr-tmae"ndBelar,c"kinagndBoattglaei,n"   by someone
                                                                           what was the
made up

tmoneeasni:n"g   of his     dress. To   which he       replied in sepulchral
                            allegory."  Both the       interrogators turned
                It is an
out to be the same individual --namely, Captain Austin

who had appeared in two different disguises ! But no

one seems to have understood the allegory until it was

explained to him.

Christmas Day was kept, of course, as it generally

is on board an English man-of-war. Later on, a very
cleverly written pantomime composed by one of the
                                                                           It was called
"offZiceerros,  of the expedition was produced.
                 or Harlequin Light," and was                               intended to

illustrate the dangers, annoyances, and difficulties that

a" reFrosspte-bciiatelly,"  "atStaccohrebdututso,"  s"ledHguengterra,v"elelitncg.,,    such as
                                                                                     who were

represented as evil sprites always on the lookout to

attack the wean,-, but unwary, sledger. Eventually they

were driven        oafwa" ySbuyn,t"he"  good spirits,  who   appeared under
the names                                Daylight,"    etc.    The last per

formance in the theatre was given on the 4th of March,
when Markham seems to have particularly displayed

that great histrionic talent which he undoubtedly
possessed. At
                            the termination of      "thsiseaspoenrfo"rmhaandcenowit
was announced               that the theatrical

terminated .

  It must not be thought that Markham, in his eagerness

to assist in the amusements of the men, neglected his
ch.vn1] SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN 123

more serious studies. This was far from being the case.
During the winter he read carefully many historical
bPoreokscsobtte'ssid"esCoSnoquutheesyt'sofpoPeemrus "anadlwSahyaskefsapsecainraet'sedwohrikms;.
in fact, in his spare time he wrote a tragedy in blank-
verse on the fate of Tupac Amaru, the last of the Incas.
He also translated the first of Virgil's Eclogues, and
wrote an essay on Pastoral Poetry. He was a great
student, too, of Arctic history, and devoured every
work connected with it that he could get. But, in

spite of congenial friends and the happiness of his
immediate surroundings, he was still resolved on leaving
the Service directly he returned to England. His one

great thought was to devote his time, at any rate in the
 near future, to the exploration of Peru, in accordance

with the resolution he had formed at Callao in 1847.
 By great good luck he found that Dr. Donnet, the
surgeon, had a Quichua grammar on board, which he
 had picked up at Lima. Markham borrowed it, and
 was thus enabled to acquire a smattering of the language
 of the Incas. He was indefatigable in his study of this

 grammar, and longed for the time to arrive when he
 could carry out his plans for revisiting Peru.

    Throughout the winter, preparations had been going
 forward for the spring and summer sledge travelling.
 M'Clintock thought out and elaborated every little

 detail. A system for exploration, such as had never

 been attempted before, had been organised, and was

 eventually brought to such a pitch of perfection that
 it has been hjy1ded down for all time as the pattern to

 be followed in Polar exploration. It is interesting to

 know that even during the winter months various

 methods were carried out by which the presence of the

 expedition and its exact locality might perhaps be made
 known to the men they were in search of. Small
 balloons made of gold-beater's skin were inflated and
 set free. Attached to them were numerous slips of
 paper containing information as to the whereabouts
 124 SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN [ch. vra

 of the relief expedition. By the attachment of a time
 fuse these slips were liberated at intervals when the
 balloon was high in the air, and so would be scattered
 far and wide. By these means they hoped to commu
 nicate with the survivors, if any existed, of the Erebus
 and Terror. With the same object in view, foxes were
 caught in traps, and liberated after small cylindrical tin
 cases containing information as to the position of the
 relief ships had been tied round their necks, in the hope
 that some of these animals would be caught by the

-missing men. The winter was a very cold one, the tem

 perature often falling to 480 ; but all were well clothed
in garments suitable for such a climate, and they suffered
but little inconvenience from its severity.

    The scheme of search to be carried out by the sledge

parties was now communicated to the officers concerned.

The sledge crews also were exercised daily, their sledges
being loaded with the exact weights they were designed

to carry. Needless to say, the greatest enthusiasm pre
vailed amongst officers and men. The plan adopted
for the summer campaign of 1851 was to organise the
sledging-parties into two separate divisions, both to
operate to the westward. One was to search in the
direction of Melville Island; the other was to pursue
its investigations towards Cape Walker and its vicinity.
To each of the main divisions were attached auxiliary
or supporting sledges, whose duty it was to accompany
the main party as far as their provisions would permit.
They were then to complete the main party with pro
visions, and return to the ship in readiness to carry out
a further supply to the depots. This insured supplies
for the main parties on their return journeys. Every

thing was admirably arranged, though, unfortunately,
the route selected was not the one chosen by the re

treating crews of the Erebus and Terror.
   No less than eighteen sledges, with 132 officers and

men, were employed in the search. Captain Ommanney
was in command of the Cape Walker division, and
ch.vn1] SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN 125

Lieutenant M'Clintock had charge of the one to Melville
Island. In addition to these two extended divisions,
small independent parties were employed in the examina
tion of all localities in the neighbourhood of their winter-
quarters, especially in the channel separating Bathurst
 Island from Cornwallis Island. Markham was con

stantly engaged in one or other of these independent

sledge-parties, and was frequently away for many days
at a time. He describes minutely all that came under
his observation, especially the practical details of
sledging work, such as the weight of all necessaries that
were carried; the quantity, weight, and description of
 the provisions ; the distance that could be accomplished
in ordinary circumstances during a day's march; the
number of men to each sledge ; the system of haulage ; the
most economical kind of fuel to be used ; the best time
of day for marching; the description of clothing to be
worn; in short, all the multifarious matters connected
with Polar travelling. Although to the uninitiated
these matters may appear to be insignificant, yet in
reality they are of the greatest importance, and affect
very materially the success of such expeditions as these --
not to mention the comfort of those concerned .

   The sledging-parties left the ships on the 1 5th of April,
1851, travelling together until they branched off in the
various directions allotted to them for search. They

enjoyed continuous daylight, for the sun had returned
on the 26th of February; but its altitude even at noon

was not very high, and the heat which it gave out was
infinitesimal, temperature at the time being considerably

below zero.

  It is unnecessary here to describe in detail the work

accomplished by the different parties. Suffice it to
say that, although their exertions were not crowned
with success, they added by their discoveries largely
to our knowledge of the geography of the Arctic Regions.
By their conduct throughout, their cheerfulness, their

patient endurance under the most trying conditions,
126 SEARCH FOR SIR JOHN FRANKLIN [cH.vm                        I

their untiring perseverance, numerous disappointments
and privations, they added yet another page to the
glorious records of our Navy.

   After leaving winter-quarters, the squadron con
tinued to search for the lost ships, especially in the sounds
situated in the northern part of Baffin's Bay. The two
steamers were found very useful in steaming up the
channels and searching all the bays and inlets that were
free of ice. Their handiness in comparison with the
clumsy bluff-bowed old sailing ships was most marked.
In consideration, however, of the lateness of the season

and the impossibility of reaching a secure harbour.
Captain Austin, acting upon his instructions, decided

to return home. The expedition reached Woolwich
on the 1st of October, 1851, after an absence from
England of seventeen and a half months. They were all

much disappointed in not having attained the main
object thay had set out to achieve ; yet satisfied in know

ing that the}- had accomplished as much as could possibly
be expected of them in the time and with the knowledge
at their disposal. The entire coast-line from Beechey
Island, where the traces of Franklin had been discovered,
to the extreme western point of Melville Island, a
distance of some 350 miles, had been thoroughly searched.
In addition vast tracts of land full}- 500 miles in extent
had been carefully explored. To the south of Cape
Walker 400 miles of new land was discovered, and as
far as possible surveyed and delineated on the map.

Jones Sound and Wellington Channel had been traced
for a considerable distance. But, with the exception
of the discovery on Beechey Island, not a vestige had
been found of the ill-fated ships Erebus and Terror.
Still, they had the gratification of knowing that by
their exertions the field for further research had been
considerably narrowed, and with this small measure
of success they had perforce to be content.
                 CHAPTER IX

                 TRAVELS IN PERU

The ships were paid off at Woolwich on the 1oth of

October. Of the warm and hearty welcome that was

extended to the officers and crew of the expedition by
their countrymen at home, it is unnecessary to speak.

Markham was      hiisnjouerxncaellle: n"t    health and     spirits.  His
father notes in                            He is looking  handsome    and

well, not a jot the worse for all his hardships." He was

grieved, however, to part with the many friends he had

made on the expedition ; for he had spent an exceedingly

happy time with them all. But he was not sorry to

be at home once more to renew home ties and resume old

friendships. He was not permitted, however, to spend
his leave altogether in gaiety and idleness. In the

eyes of his neighbours he had become a public man,

and he received many invitations to deliver lectures on

the interesting experiences in which he had recently

taken so active a part. Some of these invitations he

accepted, so that he was kept fairly well occupied during

the time he was at home. His lectures were beauti

fully illustrated by diagrams, maps and pictures drawn

by his father from descriptions given to him by his son.

But now came the time, for making the most momen

tous decision of his life, for on it depended his whole

future career. His distaste for a naval life had in no

way diminished since he left the Collingwood. Mention

has already been made of his dislike to the severe disci

pline, more especially in regard to corporal punishment,

which was enforced at that time. He had enjoyed

every moment of the time he served in the Arctic Regions,

                 127
128  TRAVELS IN PERU  [can

 for there, punishments of any sort were practicalfr-
 unknown; also he was engaged on work that was in
 every way congenial to him. But the prospect of
 returning to a life where he would be a constant witness
 of the things that he most abhorred, was anything but
 pleasing. Yet, apart from his aversion to the harsh
 ness of the punishments inflicted in the maintenance
 of discipline, he had a great love for the Navy itself;
 and his greatest friends were naval men. Even after
 he had severed his active connection with the Service,

 he was never, perhaps, so happy as when cruising in
 a man-of-war as the guest of one of the officers. He

 adored above all the young midshipmen, who would
frequently pour out all their little troubles into his sym
pathetic ears; he entered into all their fun and frolic;

it may almost be said that he encouraged them in some
of their minor and harmless delinquencies ! His sym

pathies were always with the oppressed, and when he
became aware of any particular case of punishment
that he considered to be unduly severe--especially if
it had reference to a lad or young man -- he never rested
until he had succeeded either in getting the punishment
mitigated or remitted altogether.

    He had now to decide as to the course of life he was

going to lead. It was a crucial moment. The Navy
had been tried, and it had failed to satisfy him. Some

other profession must be found. His was not a dis
position that could tolerate idleness.

   It was with some misgiving that he consulted his

father, but no advice could have been more kind and

sympathetic than the counsel his father gave him.
Seeing that he was really in earnest in his desire to

leave the Navy, he sorrowfully consented, but told him
that he thought he was making a profound mistake
in doing so. He pointed out that he had served with
credit for six years in the Navy, during which time he
had made many influential friends. He had acquired
an excellent name for himself as a clever, zealous, and
ch.1x]  TRAVELS IN PERU  129

painstaking officer, one who could be entrusted with

the execution of important duties. If it was really

his desire to leave the Service, however, he would not

stand in his way; but he thought in his own interest
that, as he had completed his six years in the Navy
as naval cadet and midshipman, he was in a position
to apply to be examined for the rank of Lieutenant,

and that he ought to do so. To this his son willingly
assented ; but he explained to his father that during
the time he was at Woolwich fitting out in the Assistance
he had lost a box which contained his logbooks for a

period of over five years--that is to say, for the whole

time he had served in the Collingwood and in the Mediter
ranean. He represented to his father that it would be
absolutely impossible for him to present himself for
examination in seamanship without these logs, and he
considered it would be a great waste of time, especially

as he was going to leave the Service, for him to write
them all up again. He suggested, therefore, that he
should pass the gunnery examination only, for in those
days it was optional as to the order in which the home
examinations should be taken. To this his father
consented, and it was arranged that directly his leave

expired he should present himself on board the Excellent
to be examined in gunnery. This was accordingly done,
and when the eventful day arrived he was examined as

to hL general knowledge of gunnery, which included
everything connected with the fighting arrangements
of a man-of-war, from the size and weight of the guns
and their projectiles, to his qualifications for stationing
and drilling men at the guns, and his knowledge of
cutlass and rifle exercises, etc. The result of the ex

amination was very satisfactory, and on the 24th of
December he was given a first-class certificate. Thus

he was enabled to spend Christmas Day at home with

his family at Horkesley.
    He now took his final leave as an officer in the Navy,

and was able to concentrate all his thoughts and all
13o           TRAVELS IN PERU                                           [ch.es

his attention to the working out of the details connected
with his projected expedition to Peru. This plan,
however, for the present he kept to himself. His
father's idea was that he should go to Oxford and take

his degree, and then be called to the Bar. Unforeseen
difficulties, however, arose regarding this project, and
it was eventually decided to give up the idea of Oxford
altogether, and that he should begin the study of law at
                                                                        reading
once. With    t"hiCsomobmjeecnt tainrievs.i"ew,  he  commenced

Blackstone's
  At this time there was a good deal of sharp and unkind
criticism in the Press, not only of Captain Austin, but

of the manner in which the late expedition had been

conducted generally. The Admiralty had appointed

a committee of Arctic experts and others to examine

the details connected with the recent search, and to

report what further action should be taken. The

result of this was the despatch of another expedition

consisting of the same ships, with definite instructions

as to the localities to be searched. The majority of the

officers who came to the front in Austin's expedition

were reappointed to their old ships for a further term

of service in the Arctic Regions. Markham was most

indignant at these attacks, and he considered the

appointment of the committee unnecessary, and as re

flecting somewhat adversely upon the leaders of the
expedition. In order to make known his views and to

enlighten the public regarding the good work that had

been achieved by Captain Austin, he resolved, with his

natural impulsiveness, to publish a narrative which

should embrace    the proceedings                tahnedtirtelesuoltfs"  of the late
expedition. This  came out under                                        Franklin's

Footsteps," a most interesting little work which de

servedly obtained a wide circulation.

The day before the sailing of the new expedition,

Markham went down to Woolwich to bid farewell to his

old shipmates, many of whom, such as Osborn, M'Clin-

tock, Mecham, and Hamilton, to name a few, he regarded
ch. 1xl            TRAVELS IN PERU                              131

as old and valued friends. He could not help feeling

depressed and disappointed that he was being left

behind, for without doubt he would willingly have

accompanied them had the opportunity been afforded
him.           it
tion     But       was not   to  be" ;   he had severed  his   connec
      with    the   Navy,   and         as he had made    his   bed so

must he lie on it." It was with a heavy heart, however,
that he wished them all good-bye and godspeed.*

For some time after his visit to Woolwich, he was

unable to shake off a feeling of nervous depression that

seemed to have settled upon him, and which he was

unable to conceal from his father. Perhaps it was due

to the fact that he had not yet summoned up sufficient

courage to divulge to him the whole of his Peruvian
plans ? However, on the 1st of July, being at Windsor,

the two went for a long walk in the Park, when he

laid his whole scheme before his father and explained

to him everything in detail. The elder man listened

with great attention, but he could not help showing

his disapproval of such a project. However, after

much explanation and much consideration, he turned a

favourable ear     t"o   his    son's   earnest  request (for,  as
Markham says,           he    never     refused  me anything
                                                                "),

and before they reached home he consented to give

him £500 towards defraying his expenses.
   Markham was jubilant at the success of his appeal,

and he became an altered man. His depression dis
appeared as if by magic. The days flew rapidly by, he

went to stay with many of his old friends, and they

returned his visits both at Horkesley and at Windsor.

London was visited several times in order to arrange

about his outfit, his passage across the Atlantic, and the

further journey thence to Lima. He had also to obtain

letters of introduction to people who he thought would

prove useful in furthering his plans. He was now just

   * This second expedition was as unsuccessful as the first with
regard to its main object. But good geographical work was done
and much hitherto unknown coast-line mapped.
132                 TRAVELS IN PERU                           [ch.h

twenty-two years of age, full of the vigour and enthu

siasm of youth. It was the dawn of his long-dreamed-of

scheme, and he did not intend that it should fail for the
lack of anything it was in his power to do.

     He left Windsor for Liverpool on the 20th of August,

1852. His father was up early in the morning helping
him to pack his things, for he was anxious about his son,

and hoped the scheme would turn out to              be  more  s"ucBcuests,"
                                                    to  be.
ful  than at first  sight it  s"eeitmeisd   likely
     writes in his  journal,               a long   lonely business,
he

and I have not much heart about it." This was the

last time he was destined to see his father.

On reaching Halifax in Nova Scotia, after a pleasant

run across the Atlantic, Markham found H.M.S. Cum

berland at anchor in the harbour, flying the flag of his
old chief, Sir George Seymour. After depositing his

things at the hotel, he went on             board   tohfeolCdu"mCboerlllianngd-
and renewed acquaintance with a            number

woods." They were delighted to see him again, and

insisted upon his living on board, an invitation he was

only too glad to avail himself of. He generally dined on

shore with the Seymours at Admiralty House, but the

remainder of his time he spent in the company of his old

shipmates, walking and driving about the town. It was
like old times, and he thoroughly enjoyed it. On the

1 2th of September  he left Halifax,       a"nCdolwlinags waococdosm,"
panied across Nova  Scotia by two old

namely, Ashby and Jones (Don Galloso), and when he
said good-bye to them at Windsor (N.S.) he felt that he
had really started on his Peruvian expedition, and that

he had taken his last farewell of the Navy. He writes

in his journal on the 12th of September, 1852 :

" My last day of actual service was on board the
Excellent  on Christmas Eve, 1851. So               long as   I was
writing '  Franklin's Footsteps,' which
                                                    I looked   upon
as a duty connected with my naval service, I felt that
I was in the Navy. As I waved my handkerchief to
Ashby and ' Gallows ' Jones, who stood on the pier at
Windsor (N.S.) watching my steamer start, I felt, with
ch.1x]           TRAVELS IN PERU                                           133

a pang, that the last tie was severed. I had been very
happy in    the  Nparvoyb,abIlyhaadwmisaedoenem. anSy tiflrli,enI dfse,lt  yet my
resolution  was                                                            a pang
of sorrow and regret."

    From Windsor (N.S.) Markham travelled to St.
John's, New Brunswick, and thence to Boston, where
he met W. H. Prescott, the historian, and spent ten days
with him at his country-house. From him he obtained

much valuable information during their numerous
interesting discussions concerning the Incas and the
conquest of Peru. He certainly could not have gone

to a higher authority on those particular subjects.
Prescott unhesitatingly approved of Markham 's expe
dition to Cuzco, strongly supported the object he had
in view, wished him the greatest measure of success
obtainable, and declared that no history could be
perfect unless the writer of it was personally acquainted
with the localities he described. Occasionally they
passed the evenings in playing whist; but Markham
observed that his host was so much under the thraldom
of his servants (as, indeed, everybody in those parts
appear to have been at that time), that they were

obliged to hide the cards under the table when the
servant appeared with tea, as that individual did not
approve of card-playing !

   Leaving New York at the end of September, he took

steamer to Colon, whence he crossed the isthmus to

Panama. This crossing of a strip of land only about
fifty miles in breadth was a novel experience for him,
and a great deal more difficult than it is at the present

day. A railroad, it is true, was in course of construction,
but it was only completed for a distance of about twenty-

five miles, to a place called Barbacoes. The remainder
of the journey had to be made, first, in a boat up the
River Chagres, and thence on a mule along a narrow
path through dense tropical vegetation. This brought
him to the parting of the waters, where the rivers flowed
down to the Atlantic and Pacific respectively, one on

                                                                                                                                  10
134                         TRAVELS IN PERU           [ch.dc

either hand. Here he had to take to a flat-bottomed

boat which provided accommodation for about twenty

passengers, with a certain amount of luggage. The

river flows with great rapidity, and the boat was man

aged by a long pole, which was also used for punting

when necessary. Just before dark he reached a miser
able village called Gorgona, and, with the other passen

gers,  wcaalsleodbaligne"d   to spend the   night at   a mean-looking
hovel                       hotel," which  swarmed    with mosquitoes

and other obnoxious insects. The passengers were on

the move at early dawn the next day, travelling some
little distance in the boats until navigation by water

became impossible, when they had recourse again to

the mules, which they had to guide along the most

execrable roads imaginable. Reaching a rest-house

about midday, Markham was able to obtain some tea,

but at the exorbitant price of $2 a cup. Rain in heavy

tropical showers fell during the day, and all the passen

gers were drenched to the skin. At length, after dark,

they reached a long hut, at which they spent another

night. Panama was reached the following afternoon.

It had taken three days and two nights to cross the

isthmus, a journey that can now be accomplished in

two or three hours.

Markham 's arrival in Panama took place at a some

what unfortunate time, for it happened to be immediately

after the discovery of gold in California. There had been

a rush of people, especially loafers and adventurers

of all kinds, with the object of trying their luck at the

gold-diggings; and a radical transformation had come

over the hitherto sleepy old town of Panama. It was

now crowded with all sorts and conditions of men.

Modern vulgarity was everywhere to be seen, more

especially in the flaring advertisements posted every

where to catch the eyes of new arrivals. Innumerable

abpnruodiludwdinolygusldanhpnaorsoutvnilicydineegr"ecgtthoeeoddfawlocetdregtihninagt,"etvh"ideeybnracwenedroyens"mahallostheseildsse,"s"
ch.1x]  TRAVELS IN PERU                      135

" egg nogs," etc. Needless to say, Markham did not

stay longer in Panama than he could possibly help;

for he took the first steamer leaving for Callao, where

he arrived on the 16th of October. He proceeded

immediately to Lima. Here he remained for nearly

two months, surrounded by old friends, and busy

completing his preparations for the great enterprise

upon which he had embarked.

Lima had changed but little since he was there in the

Collingwood days. His old friends, a little more advanced

in years perhaps, but still the same kind people whom

he had previously known, were delighted to see him

again, and not only lavished their hospitality upon

him, but assisted very materially in preparing for his

great journey. He was provided with letters of intro
duction to the President of Peru, and other leading

men in Lima, all of whom went out of their way to show

him kindness. One placed a horse at his disposal, and

sent a groom round every morning for orders; another

gave him a box at the opera ; in fact, he was overwhelmed

with kind attentions; for not only were all impressed

by the charm of his personality, but the work that he

had undertaken was regarded as one of national impor

tance. A good deal of time was spent in the Public

Library and Museum; and he left untapped no source

available to him of obtaining information regarding

the history and traditions of the Incas. Doubtless

some of the information he acquired was somewhat

unreliable, being of a mythical nature ; but on the whole

it was of great assistance to him when at last he began

his own researches, for many links were thus supplied

which would otherwise have been missing. His study

of the Quichua grammar on board the Assistance in the
Arctic Regions now bore good fruit, and amply rewarded

him for the labour he had expended upon it.

As the time at his disposal was only about twelve

months, he resolved to devote it exclusively to his re

searches in the history of the Incas. His journey, he
136      TRAVELS IN PERU                                         [ch.ix

decided, was to include a portion of the coast from Lima

to Nasca, thence to Cuzco, and so crossing the Andes

in two different directions. At Cuzco he proposed to

remain for some time, making researches in the neigh

bourhood, as well as by excursions into the Montana.

Thence back to Lima by way of Arequipa. This route

he adhered to as far as possible. Not only did he cam-

letters of recommendation to influential persons in the

districts through which he would pass, but the President

was good enough to write to the Prefects of the different

departments desiring them to afford Markham all possible

assistance and information.

    Before starting on his main expedition, he made

many interesting trips to places in the neighbourhood

oPaf cLhiamcaam. acO, nteheo"f  these was to       the famous   "teSmupprleemoef
                                Creator of the
                                                   World," the

God," worshipped by                 th"efeIsntidvieanlsuncohfeoPner"u.he  Owing,
however, to a somewhat                                                    did not

get away from Lima until late in the afternoon, and so,

to  his  di"saCpitpyoinotfmethnet,  Dtheeadtim" e   left  for his exploration
of  the                                            was    somewhat limited.

The temple, which originally had been constructed of

adobe {i.e., sun-dried bricks), was entirely in ruins, but

there remained sufficient to enable him to form some

idea of the extent and principal features of the ancient

building. From the summit, 400 feet above the level

of the sea, he obtained a glorious view. On the return

journey he was attacked by a gang of negro robbers
who, fortunately for him, had unsaddled their horses

and turned them into a neighbouring corral. One

ruffian stepped out into the middle of the road and

seized the bridle of his horse. Markham drew his

revolver and fired at the negro, who instantly dropped.
Seeing that the remainder of the gang were pre
paring to attack him, he put spurs to his horse and

galloped off into the desert, firing two more shots at

his assailants as he departed, and thus succeeded in
effecting his escape. His intention was to "ride back
ch.1x]  TRAVELS IN PERU  137

and seek shelter at a hut which he had passed on the way-
out; but, as it was now quite dark and there was no
visible road, he soon lost his way. Finally he was
obliged to pass the night in the desert ; so he lay down

to snatch what sleep he could, having first taken the
precaution of tethering the horse to one of his legs.
This he did by means of the lasso which invariably
forms part of a rider's equipment in Peru. He slept
at intervals, and did not start homewards until there

was sufficient light to enable him to find his direction

by compass. He then rode off briskly, arriving at £hor-
rillos* at about half-past seven, man and beast com

pletely famished. His assailants were captured the next
day by a detachment of cavalry. Seven were shot, and

their bodies laid out in the Plaza de la Inquisicion,

where Markham was able to recognise three of them as

having been among his assailants.
   During his stay at Lima, Markham paid many visits

to the valley of the Rimac and neighbourhood to study
the huacas there, in which he was especially interested.

These huacas are vast artificial hills built on the plains,

of adobe bricks. Some are of enormous size. One
near the village of Magdalena is more than an acre in

extent, and is 70 feet high. It is generally supposed,

from the immense quantity of human skulls and bones
that have been dug up during excavations, that they
were ancient burial-places. They were in existence at
a period anterior to the conquest of the valley of the
Rimac by the Incas, though it is assumed by some that
they were built by people of the same race.t

   The arrangements for his expedition being at length
complete, he started from Lima on the 7th of December,
1852, in light marching order, leaving all his heavy

   * A pretty fashionable watering-place near Lima much fre
quented by Lima society.

   + According to Prescott the word huaca is extensively used in
connection with any consecrated object, such as a tomb, temple, or
even a jar. Also with any natural formation remarkable for its size

or shape.
138                          TRAVELS IN PERU  [ch.dc

baggage in the safe custody of the hotel authorities.

He was accompanied by a black cavalry soldier ap

pointed by the Peruvian Government as an escort (who,

ahsow"evueser,lespsroavnedd  of no value,  Markham describing him
                             certainly no  ornament"), and a pack-

mule laden with all the requirements of the journey in

the shape of clothing, instruments, etc. Both he and

his escort bestrode mules. His equipment was cut

down to the barest necessities, for, as he himself

wrote:

   " For the real enjoyment of travelling in the interior
of Peru, it is necessary to throw aside all superfluity of
luggage, and set forth with a small pair of leather
saddle-bags and a few warm ponchos for a bed, so as to
commence the journey with a perfect absence of care
or anxiety. Thus, unhampered by luggage, the traveller
may wander through the enchanting scenery whither
soever his fancy leads him, and, taking his chance for a
lodging or a supper, roam amidst the majestic Cordilleras
and pass a time of most perfect enjoyment."

   Acting on this principle, he set forth on his lonely quest
full of enthusiasm, and determined not only to bring it to

a successful conclusion, but to enjoy himself thoroughly
into the bargain. The main object of his enterprise

was to obtain, at first-hand if possible, accurate historical

records of the somewhat mythical origin of the Incas.
Their history was full of interest, but so far the books

which dealt with Peru and its history had been devoted

almost entirely to the exploits --generally cruel and
bloody--of the Spanish conquistadores. It was a field of

investigation that was almost entirely untouched, and
it was with the object of throwing some light on this
fascinating, yet hitherto neglected part of the New
World's history that Clements Markham set out upon
his journey to Cuzco, the imperial city of the Incas.
Here he hoped to collect much valuable and reliable
information, visiting the actual scene of the deeds of
the Incas, that delightful land of lovely valleys which
ch.1x]  TRAVELS IN PERU  139

teem with the remarkable architectural remains of a

very ancient civilisation.
   In a week's time he arrived at Canete, one of the richest

sugar-yielding districts in Peru, having received the
greatest hospitality from the inhabitants of the various
villages through which he had passed. Whenever

possible, he endeavoured to arrange his daily stages
so as to obtain accommodation for the night at one of
the large haciendas, or farmhouses, that lay on his

route. At many of the places where he spent the

night, remuneration was politely but decidedly refused.

Everything was at the sefior's disposition, and nothing
in the way of payment would be accepted. He was
much amused by the stories told by the old men who
would come in to have a chat while they drank their

pisco.* On one occasion a garrulous old fellow described
a battle (in which he had taken part) between four
Generals, each of whom contended for power on the
death of the President. Markham, asking in whose
favour the battle terminated, was told that it ended by
the four Generals running away !

    Slavery was at that time the only way of obtaining
labour, and strict regulations were enforced for the

proper supervision and housing of the slaves, who were

generally negroes. On the whole they were well cared
for, and their religious instruction was not neglected.
The Peruvian Government had already adopted an
excellent scheme of gradual emancipation by which
every child born after 1 82 1 was to be free at the age of
fifty .f They were principally employed in the refining
of sugar.

    During the journey Markham visited many interesting
people and places. Sometimes he would be entertained

 at large dinner-parties in the haciendas or country-

  * An ardent spirit much favoured by the Peruvians. It takes

its name from the seaport town of Pisco.
   t A decree was issued in 1856 proclaiming the general emancipa

tion of all slaves.
140 TRAVELS IN PERU       [ch.dc

houses. On one occasion the Bishop of the province

happened to be one of the guests. It was a Sunday,

and the reverend gentleman became intensely excited

over a cockfight, on the result of which he staked large

sums of money. Later, on the same day, this high

dignitary of the Church might have been seen playing

£carte for high stakes ! Sometimes, however, our

traveller had to be content with a lodging in an adobe

hut, with perhaps nothing but a piece of bread and a

cup of chocolate for his supper. But wherever he might

be, whether partaking of the good things of this world

in the highest company, or sharing a humble meal with

a ragged peasant, he was always cheery and happy,

always sympathetic, and ever-anxious to obtain informa

tion from anyone who was in a position to assist him in

his researches.

Christmas Day, 1852, was spent at Canete, and in a

most festive manner. He shall describe it in his own

words:
" After church I went by previous invitation to dinner
at the Cura's house, the Bishop* completing the party.
The dinner consisted of an excellent roast sucking pig,
pastry made of young green maize, and sweets. After
dinner the prelate took his gamecock out of a basket
and put it on the table, the Cura did the same with his,
and about eighteen neighbours came in. The two
ecclesiastics were soon busily engaged in fastening the
navajas {well-sharpened steel spurs) on their respective
birds. Then the battle began, feathers flew in all
directions, the excitement reached fever-heat, the
betting rose higher and higher. In the end the cock
of the sporting old prelate was victorious, and much
money changed hands.      The conquering bird rejoiced

in the name of Pilato !"

   Leaving Canete he proceeded on his way, crossing the
river of that name, and passing the extensive ruins of
the old Inca fortress of Hervay. Here he spent some

time, making a plan of the ruins. This ancient fortress

* The reverend prelate of sporting proclivities already alluded to.
ch.1x]  TRAVELS IN PERU  141

and palace was undoubtedly constructed by the Incas;

it was built on a dominating rise of ground, apparently,

to overawe the inhabitants of the rich valley which
was afterwards called Cafiete. Prior to reaching Pisco,

he relates a pathetic incident that occurred on his

journey. A little way up one of the ravines an object
attracted his attention. On approaching it he found
it to be a female figure in the well-known costume of

an Inca Indian. Her face was buried in the sand.

He took one of her hands, and she turned her face

towards him with an expression of the most heartrending

grief. It was a beautiful face, and she appeared not

more than sixteen. She pointed to a small bush a few
yards off, where he discovered a little baby quite dead.
He placed some money by its side, and, seeing that he
could be of no assistance, reluctantly rode off, leaving
the poor girl alone with her great sorrow.

    Pisco was reached on the 30th of December, and here
he was most hospitably entertained. After visiting
the Chincha Islands, famous for their enormous deposits
of guano (some of which was being transported into
the ships by convict labour for conveyance to Europe),
he returned to Pisco. Leaving here early in the morning
of the 6th of January, 1853, accompanied only by an
 Indian boy, he shaped a course to the eastward, passing
over a tract of soft sand which made the travelling

somewhat heavy. Not a few troubles were experienced
en route. Sundry articles of his equipment were lost,
and not recovered without difficulty, before he reached
the large town of Yca, situated some six or eight miles
from the foot of the Cordilleras and about thirty miles

from Pisco. It was a large town situated in a fertile

 and beautiful plain covered with extensive vine and

cotton plantations. It has suffered much from the

 effects of earthquakes, especially from one which

occurred in 1745, when it was entirely destroyed. At

 the time of Markham's visit it contained a population

 of about 10,000.
142              TRAVELS IN PERU                            [ch.ec

At Yca he made the acquaintance of two gentlemen,

one a Peruvian, the other an American, who were about

to visit the coast on business; they invited Markham

to accompany them. Although this involved a slight

devour from the route which he had planned, he gladly-

accepted their invitation and they started on the 8th
of January. When they were crossing the River Yca at

a shallow ford, the stream was running so swiftly that

the mule Markham was riding was swept off its feet.

He was thrown on his side in the river, with one leg

under the mule, pinned down in such a manner that he

was unable to keep his head above water. The mule

kicked and struggled, and so did he, until he was extri

cated by his companions. Fortunately, with the excep

tion of being drenched to the skin, he was none the

worse for this unpleasant adventure, which might have

had a more disagreeable termination.

Arrived at the coast, they remained four days in a

sthmeall"  hut   c"onosftrLuocmtedas  of  bamboos, which    constituted
           port                           Here his friends  were busily
                                      !

employed in loading with cotton a ship called the Jenny
Lind. Having completed her cargo, she sailed on the

1 8th, and the party broke up, Markham continuing on
his way to Nasca, the others returning to Yca.

He now proceeded southwards along the coast to a

little place called Santa Ana, thence due east to Nasca.

His only companion as far as Santa Ana was an old

fisherman named Manuel, of whom Markham relates :

   " He was a good fellow, but, unfortunately for himself,

the poor old chap is a murderer. In the middle of the

night he often jumps up and runs screaming among the
sand-hills, thinking he 1s chased by devils and gobl1ns."

   He was much interested in the beautiful valley of

Nasca, which owes its present fertility to the skill and
industry of its ancient inhabitants, under whose care

an arid wilderness has been converted into a Garden of
Eden, and so it has continued to this day. During his
ch.1x]  TRAVELS IN PERU  143

short stay at Nasca he visited the deserted gold-mine of
Cerro Blanco, the working of which had been abandoned
for want of capital. He also inspected some Inca ruins
in the neighbourhood. But his stay here was brief,
and after crossing the Rio Grande he reached Yca again
on the 24th of January. Here he spent a very happy
week among friends who showed him every kindness,
and it was with real regret that he bade them farewell.
But the main object of his expedition still lay before him,
and he could not afford to waste time. Preparations
were hastened, and before leaving Yca he was fortunate
 in finding a most trustworthy and useful servant. This

 man, named Agustin Carpio, he engaged to guide him
 across the Andes and to assist generally in the daily
 work.
                                                                '

                         CHAPTER X
                      CUZCO TO LIMA

Markham's arrival at Yca completed the first section
of his journey to Cuzco. To enable the reader better
to follow his route, it may be stated here that Peru is
divided geographically into four longitudinal regions.
These regions are called the Coast Region, which is a
rainless district; the Puna, which comprises the lofty
and uninhabited part of the Andes; the Sierra, or in
habited part; and the Montana, or eastern forests of
the Amazonian basin.

   He was now to cross the Andes, and the route chosen
was along a narrow unfrequented path. Moreover, he
was setting out at the worst possible time of the year,
for it was the height of the rainy season. But Markham,
in his determination to succeed, was undaunted by such
difficulties. His first day's journey from Yca took him
some miles up a fertile valley in which were many
grazing farms, well stocked with cattle, horses, and
mules. Thence he travelled through a wild, uninhabited
region, along a ravine bounded on either side by steep,
and in some places precipitous, cliffs. Here he came
across a herd of eight llamas, the first of these animals
he had seen. Emerging from the ravine, he ascended
a zigzag path, and came into a land bright with flowers.
Behind him the view was glorious. Thence his path
lay through another green valley in which were fields
of alfalfa and vegetables. And so he went on and on,
ever ascending, through ravines and valleys, halting
at noon for lunch, and spending the nights in some
poor peasant's hut, where he and his guide were always
welcome to rest and remain as long as they wished.

                                                                      144
ch. x]  CUZCO TO LIMA  145

   On reaching the mountainous district they experienced
heavy rains, a novelty to them after being for so long in
the rainless part of the country. It had, moreover, the

disadvantage of making the roads much more difficult

for their mules, and added considerably to their personal

discomfort ; they also lost a good deal of time owing to
the swollen state of the rivers and streams that had to
be crossed. Still ascending they reached the Puna,
or lofty uninhabited part of the Andes. The ther
mometer now stood at 300 F. (it had been 900 F. on the
plains a few days before), and the torrential rain was
succeeded by snow and hailstorms of great violence.
They passed many vicunas, graceful animals not unlike
 llamas, but of a light fawn colour, with a very fine and
 silky fleece, and having long slender necks.

    Attaining at length the region of snow, they pushed
 on in order to reach before dark a small natural cave

 on the summit of the pass, known to the guide, where

 they had planned to spend the night. The scene was
 wild and dismal, but they succeeded in reaching the cave

 just before dark. It consisted of an overhanging rock

 in the face of the cliff, but, to their great disappoint
 ment, they found it full of water, while streams were
 trickling into it from the roof. The ground outside

 was covered with tufts of long grass full of snow, and

 did not offer a very inviting place to repose. Snow was
 falling fast, and, to add to their misfortunes, the matches

  which they carried were damp, and they were unable

  to obtain a light. Agustin, the guide, was profuse
 with his apologies, and was much downcast; but it

  was not his fault, and they prepared to pass the night

  as best they could. To lie down was impossible, so,

  wrapping themselves up in their ponchos, they stood

  up against the mules, resting their heads on the animals'

  necks; and thus passed a miserable night, snatching

  what sleep they could in this uncomfortable position.

  Nor was this the only discomfort they experienced;

  for at this high altitude they suffered a good deal from
146  CUZCO TO LIMA  [ch.x

the difficulty of breathing, though not to any serious      I
extent. Continuous sleep, however, was quite out of
the question. The thunder roared loudly above, around,

and below them, while vivid flashes of lightning lit up

the scene with a dazzling light, brilliantly outlining the
craggy peaks of the Cordilleras between the intervals
of utter darkness.

   Next morning they w1re not long in making a start,
and with the advent of dawn pursued their journey.
Snow ceased to fall, the heavy mist rolled down into

the ravines, and things generally assumed a more cheerful
aspect. Agustin also began to recover his spirits,

which had fallen very low during the night. The
travelling, however, was atrocious, especially for the
mules, handicapped as they were by their heavy burdens-

   After the summit of the pass had been crossed, they
began to descend a very steep declivity across slippery
rocks with waterfalls tumbling over them. In some
places the mules had to jump from one ledge to another
where a false step would have plunged beast and rider
to the bottom of an abyss. Occasionally they had to
skirt the edge of a precipice, traversing a path so
narrow that, while one leg was rubbing uncomfortably

against the rocks on one side, the other was hanging
over the chasm. Many of the rivers were impassable,
being in spate, and consequently circuitous and often
lengthy routes had to be taken ere a ford could be

reached.

   The first human habitation which they came across

on the eastern slope of the Andes was a shepherd's hut.

It was circular, about 8 feet in diameter, and its only

inhabitant was a small boy, who was very civil and
obliging, and provided them with hot water to make
their chocolate for breakfast. He also guided them to

a little bridge which enabled them to cross the River
Palmite Grande. One day was almost a repetition of
its predecessor: ravines, valleys, rivers, all had to be

negotiated ; mountains had to be crossed by climbing up
ch.x]  CUZCO TO LIMA  147

on one side, and descending on the other ; it was appar

ently an endless and wearisome journey rendered endur
able only by the grandeur of the scenery and the thought
that every mile brought them nearer to their goal.

   They had now passed the region of snow, and were

entering a more temperate climate. Travelling con
ditions were much improved, and they made better
progress. Solitary shepherd's huts were more frequently
met, for the lower slopes of the hills were clothed with
a rich pasturage on which sheep and cattle were grazing
in large numbers. Proceeding onwards, the travellers
came to a little hamlet; it consisted only of a cluster
of small roofless stone huts, with trees growing in the
empty rooms. The sole inhabitant of this deserted
village was the old sacristan of a little chapel, who told
them that once a year folk came from the neighbouring
districts to celebrate the festival of the Virgin. More
hermit than sacristan he seemed to be !

    Large flocks of llamas and alpacas were observed
grazing on the slopes of the hills.

   Crossing the vast pampa of Cangallo, they eventually
reached the important town of Ayacucho, in the vicinity
of which the decisive battle was fought in 1824, which
practically resulted in the extinction of Spanish power
in South America. Riding straight to the Prefect's
house, Markham received a most kindly welcome, and

was hospitably entertained by the Prefect, Don Manuel
Tello y Cabrera, and his sisters.

   The town of Ayacucho is situated at a height of over
10,000 feet above the level of the sea. In the month

of February the climate is equable and agreeable, the
temperature ranging from 640 to 690 F. The town itself
is prettily situated, and can boast of some fine buildings,
notably the cathedral, with its arcades of stone pillars

and circular arches. Ayacueho was founded by Pizarro

in 1539.
   The Prefect, Don Manuel, was so insistent that Mark-

ham should remain as his guest for at least a month
148                   CUZCO TO LIMA              [ch.x

that he not unwillingly consented, especially as there        1

were many places of historical interest in the neigh

bourhood that he was desirous of visiting. He was

anxious, also, to increase his knowledge of the Quichua
language, a wise decision which he never regretted.

With Don Manuel as his guide, he visited every place

of interest in the neighbourhood, and obtained much

knowledge both of the country and its folk-lore. In

cidentally he acquired a great deal of information on

certain ancient traditions of the Incas, hitherto unknown

to him. He much enjoyed the evening parties given by
his kind host the Prefect. Here the wit and beauty of

Ayacucho assembled, and as the young ladies of the

Sierra town    were   renowned alike for their    beauty and
intelligence,  small  wonder that he writes : "  Their names

will ever find a place in the memory of the traveller who

has enjoyed the privilege of their society."

The study of the Indians and their language was a

source of daily occupation for him, and, as these studies

were conducted under the personal tuition of one of

the charming sefioritas referred to, doubtless he made

good progress ! Under these pleasing conditions the
month soon slipped away, and it was with feelings of

poignant regret that he said good-bye to his kind friends

and set out again on his travels. The parting was a

most affectionate one, for he had become a great favourite

with them all, and they could not conceal their sorrow

at his departure.

   After leaving Ayacucho, the road branched away to
the south - east along deep ravines overgrown with

beautiful wild-flowers. The whole country appeared

capable of cultivation, and of being able to sustain

more than ten times the population then existing.

Leaving the temperate region of the Sierra, Markham

now entered a tropical valley covered with tall stately

aloes, huge forest trees, and thick undergrowth. Flocks

of green parrots wheeled screaming above their heads,

while richly coloured little humming-birds flitted from
ch.x]  CUZCO TO LIMA  149

flower to flower, their brilliant hues sparkling in the

bright sunshine.
   Rapid torrents were crossed by means of swinging

bridges made of the twisted fibres of the maguey,
which swung to and fro in a somewhat alarming and
tremulous manner as they passed over. The scenery
through which they passed varied from day to day.
Sometimes they journeyed across peaceful plains and
through valleys dotted with huts and cultivated plots ;
another day their path would probably lie through
narrow gorges with precipitous cliffs on either side,
and swirling mountain torrents dashing over the rocks
that formed their bed. Their shelter for the night
consisted usually of a peasant's rude hut, for it was but
rarely that the travellers reached a hacienda. On such
occasions, however, they were always assured of a
hospitable welcome from the owner and his family,
and a nice comfortable bed to sleep in.

    When he was about 100 miles from Ayacucho, Mark-
ham was overtaken by a Dr. Taforo, a very earnest and

 popular missionary whose acquaintance he had made
 at Ayacucho; and as he was also going to Cuzco, they
 agreed to travel together. So popular was this good
 man, that the journey thenceforward, Markham relates,
 became a sort of triumphal progress ; for whenever they
 approached a village the natives would run ahead to
 announce their arrival; and in passing through the
 villages the people would flock round them, eager to
 kiss the worthy man's hand or even to touch the hem
 of his garment. Markham was delighted, and con
 sidered himself most fortunate in having so interesting

 a man as a companion on the road. At the village

 of Huancarama they were hospitably received in the
 house of a widow with three daughters. Their hostesses,
 however, were in great distress owing to the mysterious

 disappearance of the husband and father. It was

 assumed that he had met his death by falling over

 some precipice.

                                                                                                                                   11
ISO                CUZCO TO LIMA   [cn.x

After supper they were shown their bedroom. Dr.

Taforo's bed was in one corner, and Markham's in

another. In the dead of night Markham was awakened

by a noise in the room. There was a bright moon

shining, by the light of which he distinctly saw the figure

of a man with a poncho thrown over his shoulders, and

with a ghastly face, gliding slowly across the room.

At the same time he became aware that Dr. Taforo was

sitting up in bed pointing with his forefinger at the
apparition, and pronouncing words that appeared to

be an exorcism, interspersed with portions of the service

for the Burial of the Dead. . . 1

No word was said by Markham that night, but next
morning he asked his companion for an explanation of

what he had witnessed. He was informed very curtly

that the widow had complained of the appearance of

an apparition in that particular room, and so he had
                             should occupy it for the night.
"reqItueswteildl  that they  again," he added significantly.
                  not come

Nothing more was said of the incident, but Markham

not unreasonably thought that, under the circum

stances, he might have been given the option of sleeping

on the verandah !

   They left Huancarama on the 1 5th of March, and were
accompanied for some distance by the Cura and several

others on horseback. Crowds of pretty girls lined

the road on either side, and literally covered them

with roses and other flowers as they departed. At the

different places at which they stopped, the preaching

of Dr. Taforo aroused the greatest enthusiasm, for he

was regarded almost as a saint, a representative of

St. Francis, an apostle !

   Continuing their journey , they toiled up steep ascents,
now down sharp gradients, then along zigzag paths, till

they came to the turbulent Apurimac River, dashing

noisily along between the mighty barriers that con

fined it. They crossed by a swinging bridge 150 feet
in length, suspended some 300 feet above the foaming
ch.x]  CUZCO TO LIMA  151

river. The scenery was magnificent. On either side
the lofty Cordilleras rose almost perpendicularly, the
waves of the river actually dashing against their bases
and making their sides so smooth that even a blade
of grass could not find root. The strata in the cliffs
ran in distinct lines at an angle of about 700. From
the bridge they ascended a steep winding path, and
eventually reached the village of Mollepata, where they

had a princely reception. Girls again showered roses
on them, strings of dollars were suspended across the
road, while twelve of the principal inhabitants rode out
to meet and offer them hospitality. In the evening Dr.
Taforo preached in the church, and met with the usual

enthusiastic reception.

    The next morning they passed through valleys and
plains devoted, apparently, to the cultivation of sugar.
There were also large fruit-gardens and fields of vege
 tables. On the following day Markham visited the
ruins of the old Inca palace of Limatambo, built in a
 lovely spot that commanded an enchanting view of

 the valley. The interior of the palace was utilized as

 a fruit-garden. Thence they entered the vast pampa
 of Surite, where was fought the great battle which
 decided the supremacy of the Incas. Here also took
 place the defeat and capture of Gonzalo Pizarro.

    They now proceeded along a swampy road, their pro
 gress much retarded by a violent thunderstorm accom
 panied by heavy rain. As is not unusual in moun

 tainous regions, the storm abated quickly, the clouds

 dispersed, and the moon shone out brilliantly. Just as
 they reached the summit of a range of hills, it cast its
 bright rays upon the city of Cuzco, which lay spread out
 below them. The object of their long journey was
 attained at last, their goal was in sight, and all their

 troubles, anxieties, and discomforts, were forgotten in

 the realisation of that hope in which for long he had so

 ardently indulged.

    It was quite dark when they entered the city, shortly
1$2  CUZCO TO LIMA  [ch.x

after 8 p.m., on the 20th of March, 1853. The journey
from Lima, a distance exceeding 300 miles, had been
made over the most mountainous country in the world.
Markham and his companion were received under the
hospitable roof of General Don Manuel de la Guarda,

who had been expecting their arrival for some time.
After an excellent supper, to which, doubtless, the
travellers did full justice, Markham was shown into a

comfortable bedroom, where he slept without a break
for twelve hours. Not even the appearance of the
Huancarama apparition would have disturbed his rest !

   When he awoke the next morning, it was difficult
for him to realise that he was actually in Cuzco --Cuzco,

the ancient city of the Incas, the hallowed spot where
Manco Ccapac's golden wand sank into the ground !
Here in years gone by a high state of civilisation had

been attained under a paternal government; works

were conceived and completed which to this day are
a source of wonder to the traveller. Here was the chief

city of an ancient empire ruled in the past by a virtuous
race of monarchs, whose wonderful temple surpassed
in splendour even the fabled palaces of the Arabian
Nights ! Cuzco, the mysterious city of his dreams !

It was indeed difficult for him to realise that his castle

in the air had at length assumed a concrete form-- that
his ambition, ever since he had become acquainted
with the city in the pages of Prescott, was a reality

at last.

   It may be of interest to state here that the legendary
founder of the Inca state was Manco Ccapac. It is not

known whence he came, this mysterious lawgiver of
Peru. Many are the theories that have been hazarded
regarding his origin. One authority has no doubt
whatever that he was a son of Kublai-Khan, the first
Emperor of China of the Yuan Dynasty. Another de
clares that he came from Armenia about 500 years
after the Deluge ; while still others assert that he was an

Egyptian, a Mexican, and even an Englishman ! There
ch.x]  CUZCO TO LIMA                                       153

is no doubt, however, that (whatsoever his antecedents)
he introduced a new and a foreign civilisation, he

established a well-organised government and a system

of religious worship, he was the author of every useful

art the Peruvians possessed, and he founded a great

empire the subjects of which were never oppressed,

never poor, and were always protected by a patriarchal

administration. The reigning Inca himself was the

father of his people. He studied their comfort, he

apportioned their work, he arranged their holidays,

all with the assistance and under the rigid supervision
of
    hwisasoftfhiceerms.ostHpisrofuadv,ouwraitse"tiTtlhee,  and the one of which
he                                                         Friend of the Poor."

    Markham was provided with letters of introduction

to many eminent men in Cuzco, and these he at once

proceeded to make use of. He made many friends,

all of whom were ready and willing to assist him in

his researches. During the three weeks that he spent

at Cuzco he laboured incessantly to acquire as much

knowledge as it was possible to obtain concerning the

Incas. He inspected every place of historical interest
in the city and its neighbourhood, and paid frequent

visits (often at a considerable distance) to the ruins
which tradition pointed out as the most ancient buildings

of the Incas still in existence. He also devoted con

siderable time to visiting and writing descriptions of

those structures that were erected by the Spaniards

at the time of the conquest, and subsequently. Finally

he described the state of the city of Cuzco and its in

habitants at the time of his visit. Needless to say, he

devoured every book and document he could lay his

hands on that was in any way associated with the

traditions of the Incas ; and he constructed from personal
inspection elaborate plans of all the palaces, forts, and
other important buildings visited. In short, he com

piled, in that detailed and masterly manner which was

always so characteristic of him, an exhaustive history

of the ancient city of Cuzco and its rulers.
1 54                                     CUZCO TO LIMA                  [ch. x       1

Yet with all this important work on his hands he did

not neglect his social obligations. His society was

much sought after, for his friends were many, and all

were desirous of making his visit to Cuzco a pleasant

one. His host, Don Manuel de la Guarda, was untiring

in his exertions. Dinner-parties were frequent, and

there were evening receptions to which all the rank

and fashion of Cuzco were invited. But Markham

was not the man to allow gaieties to interfere with his

more important work, and the thoroughness of his

researches may be gauged by the book which he published
                                                                        This
(vionlum18e5, 6)enstihtloerdtly"         after his return to England.   only
                                         Cuzco and Lima," contains not

a graphic and absorbing narrative of his travels and

experiences in Peru, but also a concise account of the

history, language, manners, customs, literature, and

antiquities of the Incas, together with a survey of the

history of the modern republic of Peru.

Before leaving Cuzco, he resolved to make an excur

sion of about three or four weeks' duration to the

country lying north-east of the city, where several

interesting ruins were situated. Taking with him the

two mules which had been his faithful beasts of burden

since his departure from Lima, and engaging the services

of a young Indian named Andres as a guide, he pro

ceeded down the valley of the Vilcamayu in a northerly

w"dirrtiehtecetriswonaa.rsmtthThehiiss"  valley is  often alluded to by Peruvian
                                         Paradise   of Peru," for here, it is said,
                                         not heat,
                                                    and the coolness is not cold."

As he journeyed along, Markham mixed much with the

country-people, especially in the villages where he had

to pass the nights; and he would sit for many hours

together listening to their native ballads.

The first halt was made at a village named Maras,

where he put up for the night at the residence of a

hospitable Cura. The view from here was magnificent.
To the north were the lofty mountains of Vilcapampa,

rising between the Rivers Apurimac and Vilcamayu.
ch.x]       CUZCO TO LIMA             1SS

To the north-east a plain stretched away into the

distance, ending in a precipitous descent, and beyond

rose the mighty Andes, with their snowy peaks lost to

view in the clouds. The lights and shades on the sides
of the mountains intersected by deep ravines were very

beautiful.

   Markham devoted some time to the examination

of Incarial ruins in the town of Ollantay-tambo, ruins
that appeared to him to have been constructed origin

ally at different periods, some Incarial, some of the

megalithic age. Ollantay-tambo was in reality a

fortress, specially constructed for the defence of the

pass into the valley, against the incursions of hostile

tribes from the Montana region to the north. It is

one of the most interesting places in Peru, whether

from an historical or a legendary point of view. Here

close together, standing erect on a small level piece of

ground, were five huge blocks of stone, with others of

immense size lying scattered round. One of them was

found to measure 15 feet 4 inches by 4 feet 8 inches
by 3 feet. Markham came to the conclusion that these
colossal stones at one time formed part of the interior

of the great hall of this palatial fortress. He succeeded

in piecing the various fragments together in his imagin

ation, so -constructing a plan of what he conceived to

have been the original form of this ancient building.

Numerous other ruins in the neighbourhood were

visited, and he was much impressed with the great

architectural talent combined with the methodical

means of defence that were displayed by the Incas at

such an early period. He found Ollantay-tambo a

most fascinating place, but the means by which these

colossal monoliths were conveyed to the positions in

which he found them always remained a mystery to

him. The descriptions which he gives of the various

ruins visited in this neighbourhood are lengthy and

minutely detailed,    and   they are  aessp"ecthiaellytireidntestroensteisn.g"
in connection with  what   are known
156                 CUZCO TO LIMA                                      [ch. x

These are the huge monoliths, accurately shaped, which

lie on the ground in diverse places and positions, as if

too weary to proceed any farther. Some of these were

Jover 20 feet in length by 15 feet broad and 3 feet in
thickness.

Thence he pursued his way to Urubamba and Chin-

chero, where more ruins of Inca palaces were seen,

then on to the village of Laris. This detour was

occasioned by his hearing, quite casually, that the best

version  oof fLaarisQ, u"icohnuathedraomthaer  was   to   be  seen in the
village                                        side  of  the  mountains,"

as his informant airily remarked. He at once set out
for this spot, although it was considerably out of his
way, to obtain if possible a copy of the manuscript.

In this he was successful. It was a task that took him

more than four evenings to accomplish, but the time,

he considered, was not misspent. The document from

which he obtained the copy was an original one, and he

sat up until long after midnight each evening translating

and writing by the light of a small tallow candle. The

old Cura (a descendant of the Incas) with whom he was
staying excused himself from remaining up so late by
                               Aatndthipsroacneneoduendcemtoen"t
pleading a    bad headache.                                              the
attendant   suddenly entered,                                          stick

coca leaves  all over the worthy               C"urwa'isth  temples,"   and
he went to   bed, says Markham,                              a green   fore

head." Next morning a magic cure had been effected,

but, alas ! it was only temporary, for the headache

recurred again that evening, and every evening of Mark-

ham's stay ! Nothing, however, could exceed the atten

tions that the Cura paid to his guest during the day

light hours, and from him Markham acquired a great

deal of Inca lore.

Travelling by way of Caloa and Urubamba, Markham

now set out for Pissac, on his way to the Montana of

Paucartambo. At Pissac there were more Inca remains

for him to examine. By the time he had completed

his examination, darkness had already set in, and it
ch.x]  CUZCO TO LIMA  157

suddenly occurred to him that he was ignorant of any
place where he could spend the night. However, his
guide Andres was a lad of resource, and, crossing the

bridge over the Vilcamayu, he soon returned with ah
invitation from the Governor of Pissac to stay at his

house, which Markham was glad to accept. The next
day he took his departure for Paucartambo. The road
was rough and mountainous, and it was late before he
arrived at his destination. As he approached the town,

he observed several horsemen coming from various
directions towards the bridge into the town. He
subsequently found that the Prefect, having received
notice of his arrival and the object of his visit, had
invited the neighbouring haciendados to assemble and
bid him welcome. He was very cordially received by
the Prefect and all these local gentry, who were full of
information about the Montana. They were all enter
tained at an excellent supper, and afterwards Markham
was glad to be able to spend the night in a comfortable

bedroom.

   After receiving advice next morning as to the various
routes that might be followed, he decided on taking
the one which led to the village of San Miguel, for the
sole reason that a certain old friar, Bovo de Revello,

who was a great authority on everything connected
with the Incas, lived there. This route was generally

regarded as a very dangerous one, owing to the presence
of hostile Indians, and he was strongly urged to apply
to the authorities for an armed escort. Considering,
however, that it would be an unnecessary precaution,
he started off, to the consternation of his hosts, with

only one mule and a guide. Crossing the eastern range
of mountains, and reaching an altitude of 13,000 feet,
he commenced a laborious descent into the forest

below by a difficult zigzag path. The route to him
was intensely interesting, for it was the very one by
which the Incas, centuries before, had penetrated into
the Montafia, as related by Garcilasso de la Vega and
158          CUZCO TO LIMA                                 [ch. x

Sarmiento. He soon reached a country bright with the
blossoms of a rich subtropical vegetation; and before

dark, so rapid was his descent, he came to the tall

forest trees and palms of the tropical region. That

night he slept in a small ruined hut, in which he had the

curious experience of being attacked by a vampire bat,

which, his hosts said, must have come down from the

rafters. Apparently it had fixed upon Markham's

toe and sucked under the nail, for when he awoke in

the morning one of his feet was covered with blood.

Such incidents, he was told, were not uncommon.

It is said that, while sucking the blood, they fan their

victim gently with their wings. But he suffered no

inconvenience, and was afoot early.

Arriving at San Miguel, he was entertained with the
usual Peruvian hospitality by Friar de Revello and
Senor Pedro Gil, the Administrador. The information

he gleaned from them fully repaid the extra toil of his
journey to San Miguel, for it was here that Markham's

attention was first directed to the value of the careful

cultivation of the cascarilla- trees* with which in later
years his name was to be so intimately associated. His

two friends at San Miguel descanted in glowing terms

on the great future of the Montana, and referred most

hopefully to the cultivation of these trees which grow

so luxuriantly on the slopes of the Andes.
In the Montana region, as was to be expected, he

experienced intense heat, and travelling was rendered

all the more arduous by the dense tropical vegetation

through which he had to cut his way. It was while

struggling  --thhrisouognhly  this thick scrub that he  obtained
a glimpse                                                de Dios
                               one--of the broad Madre

River, near the spot where it is formed by the confluence
of the Rio Pinapina from the north-west, the Rio Turo

from the west, and the Rio Cosnipata from the south.

It was a grand sight and aroused all his geographical

enthusiasm.

     * Of the genus Cinchona, whence quinine is obtained.
ch.x]  CUZCO TO LIMA  159

   At length, after an interesting but somewhat fatiguing
journey of thirty-four days, he reached Cuzco. It had

been a profitable excursion. His knowledge of Inca

lore had been largely increased, and he had traversed

a portion of the interior of South America hitherto
but little known to European travellers. He had every
reason to be pleased and satisfied with the results of his
journey. His former host, Don Manuel de la Guarda, wel
comed him back, and insisted that he should occupy his
old quarters. Dr.Taforo, too, had much to tell him, for
in Markham's absence he had made all the necessary

arrangements for the journey to Arequipa, and thence
onwards to Lima. In addition he had arranged to
accompany Markham to Lima himself, with a party
which consisted of Dr. La Puerta (who was going to
Lima with his daughter Victoria to take up his appoint
ment as Judge of the Supreme Court), Don Manuel Novoa,

and three youths returning to the college at Lima. It

was a large party, and it promised to be a lively one.
    Markham had reached Cuzco on the 16th of May, and

 their departure was fixed for the 18th, so that he had
 not much time to spare for saying good-bye to the

 numerous friends who had received him so kindly.

 Probably he would never see them again, and, in the

 short time he had been among them, so friendly and
 hospitable had they been that he had come to regard
 them almost with affection. He was leaving, too, the
 zenith of his dreams, the city of the Children of the Sun,

 the heart of Inca history and tradition. It was with

 a sad face that he took his last look at the Enchanted

 City, and his heart was very full as he turned to follow

 his companions.
     As they rode out of Cuzco, the cavalcade consisted of

 no less than twenty-two mules. The route travelled
 was new to Markham, who delighted in the magnificent

 scenery that surrounded them. Passing the great lake

  of Tungasaca, they spent the night at the little town of
  Yanaoca, probably the highest town in the world, for
160  CUZCO TO LIMA  [ch. x

 it is some 14,250 feet above sea-level. It is situated

 in the midst of a large grassy plateau on which herds
 of llamas and alpacas were grazing. Shortly afterwards
 they reached a succession of still more elevated plains,
 many of them covered with flocks of the graceful
vicuna. One night the little village of Langui was
 selected as their resting-place, for it was historically
interesting to Markham as being the spot where Tupac
Amaru and his family were taken prisoners and carried
off to Cuzco to be tortured to death. As evening closed,
their path lay along the shore of Lake Tungasaca;
waves were breaking at their feet, and the blue water

stretched for miles to the distant mountains. Overhead

a cloudless sky added to the impressiveness of the scene.
    Three days' journey brought them to the village of

Ocururo, on the outskirts of the department of Cuzco.
This was the last place at which they were to see the
natives in their picturesque Inca costume. Thence a

steep path covered with snow conducted them over a

pass the summit of which was 17,740 feet above the
sea-level. That night they slept at the little post-hut of
Rumihuasi, reputed to be the highest human habitation
in the world, for it is at a considerably higher altitude than
the summit of Mont Blanc. The cold was intense, all
the mountain streams were frozen ; but, in spite of the
severity of the weather and the difficulties incidental to
the cooking of food, their spirits never flagged, and as
they climbed steep mountain-paths, or descended

almost precipitous declivities, they beguiled the time
by singing songs in various tongues. The distance
which they accomplished each day was between
twenty-five and thirty miles, according to the length of
the stages between their resting-places; and, of course,
their daily rate of travelling was largely influenced by
the weather. Frequently their shelter for the night was
an unfurnished hut, but, as they were fairly well supplied
with provisions, they were always sure of a meal.

   They were now proceeding due south on the road
ch. x]        CUZCO TO LIMA                                             161

to Arequipa. The following extract from Markham's

journal will give some idea of their journey :
   " At last we came to two stone huts and a large

corral surrounded by a stone wall, which was the post-
house of Ayavirini. Victoria (the only lady of the party)
was of the right sort, and game to the last, though the
cold was intense. Directly we arrived she sprang from
her mule, loosened its girths, and began at once to look
about for the means of procuring supper. There was
only one inhabitant, who swore by all his saints that
there was nothing to eat. At length                     obnleocokef douurppwaritthy
discovered a  doorway in the other hut                  down, and were
stones. We    proceeded to pull them
rewarded by finding potatoes, firewood, and a quantity
of llama skins. Two of our party had collapsed. We
soon had a blazing fire and the potatoes in a fair way of
btheecosmuipnegrinatevnedrayncgeoodofIrVisihctosrtieaw  without meat.   Under
                                                        and one of the  gentle
men of the party, a fairly good supper was produced,
vet Dr. La Puerta was cross, and even Dr. Taforo was
barely philosophical, certainly not cheerful, for the
         mules were still far behind.                   As for beds, we
baggage  best we could with the llama                   skins. We were
did the
all dead tired, and slept well."

   This was more or less the daily routine They usually
started in the morning between seven and eight o'clock,
immediately after breakfast, and halted for about an
hour at midday to rest the mules and have lunch.
The night was passed in any hut they came to between

6 and 1 1 p.m.

   From this time the road became a gradual descent,

the snow began to disappear, and the weather became

perceptibly warmer. Lofty cacti rose on each side of
the path, and hardy flowers assisted to make the hitherto
cheerless road look brighter. On the 28th of May
they beheld for the first time Mount Misti,* the lofty
volcanic peak overshadowing the city of Arequipa.
In size, shape, and legendary interest, it is to Peru
very much what Fujiyama is to Japan. On the following

   * This volcano is in the shape of a perfect cone. Its summit is

20,320 feet above the level of the sea.
i6a                          CUZCO TO LIMA              [ch.x

evening they rode into the city, not at all sorry to

exchange the discomforts incidental to such a journey

as they had achieved, for the comforts of civilisation.

Markham became the guest of a family named Lan-

dazuri who resided in a beautiful villa surrounded by a

large garden situated above the city. The remainder

of the party went to their several destinations.

  At Arequipa, Markham enjoyed a well-earned rest,

during which time he made all the necessary arrange

ments for his voyage home. He had noticed during

their recent journey from Cuzco that the muleteer
belonging to Dr. La Puerta was a very trustworthy

man, and invariably kind to the animals placed under

his charge. He therefore made him a present of his

thwoomem, u"lesh,abveiningg   anxious that they should  have a good
                             served him so well over    deserts and

mountains in tropical heat and Arctic snows." He was

sorry to part with his old friend and travelling companion,

Dr. Taforo, for whom he had conceived a great affection,

and he was pleased to think that this feeling was re

ciprocated by so gifted a man. Some years after, Dr.

Taforo was enthroned Archbishop of Santiago in Chile.

   On the 1 8th of June Markham left Arequipa with
Dr. La Puerta 's party, who were continuing their journey

to Lima. On this trip there were few or no ascents to
be made; indeed, it was downhill almost all the way.

One portion of it was somewhat fatiguing, for they

were obliged to cross a sandy desert seventy-five miles

in extent. On the 20th they reached the little seaport

of Islay, where they embarked on the steamer Bogota,

and arrived at Callao on the 23rd. Thus was brought
to a successful conclusion his long-planned Peruvian

expedition.

Throughout the entire trip he had experienced nothing

but kindness from all with whom he had come in con

tact, and he was never tired of alluding to the great

hospitality and disinterestedness of his Peruvian friends.

He undertook his expedition, as he informs us in the

account of his travels to Cuzco, solely with a view to the
cm. x]  CUZCO TO LIMA  163

examination of Peruvian antiquities, and for the enjoy
ment of its magnificent scenery; but he found, before
he had been very long in the country, that the unaffected
kindness of its warm-hearted inhabitants was even more
attractive than the fascinating history of the Incas,
and that a journey through the land of the Children

of the Sun was one of the most enjoyable expeditions
that could possibly be undertaken.

    On his arrival at Lima, Markham found that H.M.S.
Portland, the flagship of the Pacific Squadron, was at
 Callao. On board were many of his old shipmates and
 naval friends. He promptly boarded her, and old
 friendships were renewed with mutual delight. He
was made an honorary member of the wardroom mess,
 and, needless to say, was frequently on board arrang
 ing little excursions round about Lima, in which he

 acted as cicerone. He also joined them in many mad
 pranks on shore; one, of which it seems he was the
 originator, was to run a race in a straight line across the
 town over walls and roofs and across backyards, but
 without making use of any streets or roads, which were

 strictly prohibited. A great number of the officers

 entered for this race, and one was handicapped by having
 to carry a live kitten in his arms ! The affair created
some disturbance and a good deal of alarm to the in
 habitants; however, those taking part in the race
 succeeded in getting home without being identified !
 The name of the winner is not recorded.

    Markham had not received any home letters or papers
 on his arrival at Lima ; it was therefore a great shock to
 him, as well as the deepest sorrow, that in an old copy
 of The Times brought to him by one of his friends, he
 read the announcement of his father's death. This

 naturally hastened his departure for England. He left
 Callao on the 12th of August, was at Panama on the

 22nd, and arrived at Colon the following day. The
 island of St. Thomas in the West Indies was reached

 on the 1 st of September, and on the 17th of the same
 month he landed at Southampton.
                       CHAPTER XI

                     THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA

The home-coming of Clements Markham was indeed
a sad one. All, of course, were delighted to see him
back after his long and arduous experiences in the
interior of South America; but his return under the
distressing circumstances of such an irreparable loss
caused by the death of his father was very keenly felt
by him. By his death he had lost one who was in
every respect his Guide, Philosopher, and Friend. His
father had never thwarted his designs, so long as the
consummation of them would not, in his opinion, be
detrimental to the ultimate interests of his son; and
he gave way to Markham's strenuous appeals to leave
the Navy, though he was personally opposed to such
a measure. They were much attached to each other;
they were companions and friends in every sense of the

term.

   There was much for him to do on his return. His
first care was for his mother and sisters. The houses
at Horkesley and Windsor had, of course, been given
up, but soon he had them settled in a comfortable house
in Onslow Square. Yet, with all these family matters
to occupy his attention, he still found time to complete
and publish for private circulation a History of the
Markham Family which his father had been instrumental
in compiling. At last everything was settled, and he
was able to accept the numerous invitations from friends
as well as relations interested in his work. His spare

                                                              164
ch. x1]  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  165

time was occupied in the compilation of a paper in con
nection with his recent travels which he had been invited
to read before the Geographical Society. He was also
employed in collecting the necessary data from his
journal for the book which he contemplated publishing
on his recent expedition to Cuzco and Lima.

    Markham could not afford to lead an idle life, even if

his inclination would have allowed him to do so. The
occupations upon which he was engaged were not of
 a highly remunerative nature, and it was therefore
 necessary that he should set to work to obtain some
permanent employment. He succeeded at length in
 obtaining an appointment as a junior clerk in the Legacy
 Duty Office of the Inland Revenue. This carried with

it a salary of £90 per annum, rising to the exorbitant

 figure of £1 30 per annum after ten years' service ! How
 ever, it was better than nothing, and in December, 1853,

 Markham began his duties at Somerset House as a

 probationer.
    His work was not of an interesting nature, for it con

 sisted chiefly in writing up ponderous registers and
 preparing an index for the purpose of reference. Such
 duties were anything but congenial to his active mind,

  and, as he himself asserts, could easily have been carried
  out by the dullest of attorney's clerks. The greater
  part of the short time that he filled this appointment
  he devoted to the compilation (for his own informa
  tion) of a history and description of Somerset House.
  But, in spite of the interest he took in the historical
  associations of the place, his immediate surroundings
  were anything but pleasing. The office in which he
  passed the greater part of the day was begrimed with the
  accumulated dust of ages, the windows were impervious
  to light owing to layers of London dirt, the floor was
  unwashed and uncarpeted, the ceiling was black with
  decades of congealed soot, and the shelves round the
  room groaned under the weight of massive tomes

  smothered in generations of dust, containing the wishes
166      THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA                                             [ch. x1

of those long dead. This was not the ideal life for an

explorer; for one whose existence hitherto had been
passed in the open air ; nor did it offer sufficient scope to

satisfy the energy and abilities of a man with so active

a mind as Markham's. A wider and more interesting

field of action was evidently essential. Fortunately, a

change came, sooner even than he had anticipated.

    His delight may be imagined when, after six months

of this tedious drudgery in Somerset House, he was

offered an appointment in the Department of the Board

of Control, an administrative department which acted in

conjunction with the East India Company in carrying

out the responsible duties of the Government of India.

It ceased to exist when the Company was abolished

after the suppression of the Indian Mutiny, and the

India Office was established in its stead.

  It was an offer that Markham gladly accepted, and he

entered upon his new duties with cheerful alacrity. They

were in striking contrast to those that he had so willingly
relinquished. In the Legacy Duty Office the work was

uninteresting and the chance of promotion uncertain,

the remuneration was scanty, and, what was almost

of more importance, few of his colleagues in the office

were men of gentle birth and education. It was far

otherwise in the Board of Control. There the work was

of  an   e" xSceecerdeitngalnyd  interesting   naBtruarne,chfo"r;  he was   placed
in  the                          Confidential                      and his  duties

consisted in copying letters and despatches, some of

absorbing interest, from India, Persia, Syria, and other

Oriental countries. He was now quite happy, and eagerly

devoted any spare time at his disposal to his own

particular interests, and especially to geography.

   On the 27th of November, 1854, he was proposed by
Sir Roderick Murchison and elected a Fellow of the

Royal Geographical Society. Thus began his close

connection with that Society in which he was so greatly

interested, a connection that lasted sixty-two years,

and terminated only with his death. On the 12th of
ch.x1]        THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  167

February following, he contributed his first paper.

Prior to the meeting he dined at the Geographical

Club* as the guest of Sir Roderick Murchison, and they

went on to the meeting together. Admiral Beechey

peMRnriaevcdseeri.rdeedTPd,heuearuDnsdisous"bh)je.eicnhtaItdPoeafarlulhcirspo(awapsndsaoeeptddehreoarwnffdansvaaemp"rpyeSreowcufoieracrltlei;vstehheoeaf uhRtdahiidoe

a good reception and was much pleased. About this

otinme"   he  wrote an article   for  Blackwood's Magazine
              Modern Literature  of   Peru," which was well
         The

reviewed .

But, in spite of these occupations, he did not allow

the friendships formed in his younger days to lapse.

He frequently ran down to Portsmouth to see his

naval friends. On one of these visits he noticed an

engraving in the room of one of his old shipmates.

It represented the Hindoo Princess Sakontala, wandering

through the forest with two fawns licking her hand.

It was so pleasing that it made a great impression upon

him ! He thought of it by day and dreamt of it by
night. In consequence he became an ardent student of

Indian mythology, and consulted all the authorities

that were likely to give him any information regarding

the synthetical history of the beautiful Princess. He

became infatuated with everything appertaining to

the ancient history of India, especially its legends and

literature, and he grew enthusiastic over the poet
Colidas (most renowned of the dramatic poets of ancient
India), who had immortalised the romantic life of the

lovely Princess. Eventually he became as great an

authority on this particular subject as he was on the

folk-lore of Peru.

On another occasion when he was visiting Portsmouth,

he was present at the sailing of the Baltic Fleet from

Spithead, under the command of Admiral Sir Charles

   * In those day9 the members of the Geographical Club held their
dinners at th« Thatched House.
168          THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA                 [ch. x1

Napier. This was on the 4th of April, 1855. The
fleet consisted of seventeen ships of the line, with

numerous frigates, sloops, and steamers. It was an

event that caused a great deal of excitement at the time,

and Markham speaks of the patriotic enthusiasm dis

played by the crowds of sight-seers who lined Southsea

Beach and Common to witness the departure of the

fleet.

    As he was much interested at this time in the history

of Mohammedanism, the Moorish history of Spain

attracted his attention. He at once began to study

Arabic under the tuition of a Maronite of Mount

Lebanon, Joseph Churi by name, who had taught and

travelled with his old friend Captain Peel. This last

recommendation alone was quite sufficient for Markham

to engage the man's services for an hour or more every

forenoon. He soon mastered the verbs, and became

much interested in the language.
    In the autumn of 1855 he made a very pleasant trip
     the Rhine accompanied by          boof ohkis"             As
up   had been working hard at     one               sisters.  and
he                                his                Cuzco

Lima," the holiday was a well-earned one. The book

made its appearance on the 3rd of February, 1856, and
was well received alike by the public and the Press.

Special commendatory notices appeared in the Literary

Gazette, the Examiner, the Critic, and the Morning

Advertiser.

   Of course he sent a copy  to his  friend in the  U"nCitoend
States, W. H. Prescott, the  gifted  author of th?

quest of Peru," who, in acknowledging the book, spoke

so highly of its excellence and historical accuracy as to

cause Markham to value his remarks far more than the

most favourable reviews that appeared in the English

Press.

   And now occurred what was to him the greatest

event of his life. On the 10th of July, 1856, he met for

the first time Miss Minna Chichester, daughter of the

Rev. James Hamilton Chichester, Rector of Arlington,
                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                   I
                                                                                                                                  i

CLEMENTS MARKHAM (AGED 25).

                                                                                    To face page i6g»
ch. x1]  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  169

 and niece of Sir Bruce Chichester, of Arlington Court in

 Devonshire. It seems to have been a case of love at

 first sight, for he notes in his journal that on the third
 day after their introduction, he took her to see St.
 Paul's Cathedral ! On the 18th of November he pro

 posed and was accepted, and they were married at

Arlington on the 23rd of April, 1857. Thus commenced
 a period of unalloyed happiness, a lifelong companion
ship terminating only with his death, nearly sixty years
later. It was an ideal union. Not only were they
devoted to one another, but, to use a common expression,

they were suited to each other in every possible respect.
They had common interests and the same tastes, both

were excellent linguists, they were never so happy
as when in each other's company, and were seldom

parted, participating in each other's pleasures, mutually
sharing together their troubles and sorrows, and of the
greatest help to each other in countless ways. In the
translation of many of his works, especially those of a
Spanish or Dutch origin, she it was who brought him
greatest aid, and by her sympathetic understanding
encouraged and materially assisted him in many of
his literary ventures. They settled down in a house
in St. George's Road, and here on the 4th of October,
1859, to the great joy and delight of the parents, was
born their only child, May.

    During all this time Markham continued to carry out
zealously his duties at the India Office. He was much

interested in the special department in which he was
employed, and his work was never of so arduous a nature

as to prevent him from getting away for short periods
at a time, so as to enable him to pay visits and to
occupy himself in other pursuits unconnected with his

official duties. For instance, in August, 1857, he wrote
a paper on M'Clintock's search for, and discovery of the
fate of, Sir John Franklin, which he read before the
Geographical Section of the British Association in
Dublin.
170  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  [ch. x1

   Ever since his return from Peru, his thoughts reverted

frequently to the cinchona-trees* that he had seen on the
slopes of the Andean Cordilleras, and he pondered much
on the information given to him by his two friends at

San Miguel, regarding the immense value and impor
tance of quinine as a febrifuge. The reckless extrava
gance with which the quinine-bearing trees in South
America had been cut down, stripped of their bark, and
ruthlessly destroyed, by adventurers intent only on
making their own fortunes, without interference by the
Governments of either Peru or Bolivia, gave him much
food for thoughtful reflection.

    No attempt had been made by the authorities of the

cinchona-growing districts to conserve or otherwise pro
tect the trees, and it was obviously desirable that some
measures with this end in view should be taken, since the
world was dependent upon South America alone for its
supply of the drug. The experiment of transplanting
the trees had already been made by the Dutch, who had
attempted their culture in Java. But the result was
not altogether a success, owing to the introduction of

an indifferent species of cinchona, and to mistakes made
in the cultivation of the plants. In spite of these
failures, Markham felt certain that it would be possible
to cultivate the trees successfully in some of our own

tropical possessions, where the climate closely ap

proached that of their native habitat.

    His connection with the India Office afforded him

 the opportunity of becoming acquainted, in all its
details, with the terrible scourge of fever so preva
lent in India, affecting European and native alike. He
deemed it of the utmost importance to combat this
widespread evil, and came to the conclusion that the

only way to do this effectually was to take immediate
 steps to introduce and cultivate quinine in those districts

     * The name cinchona was bestowed by Linnjeus, the famous
 Swedish botanist, in honour of the Countess of Chinchon, who was
 one of the first to derive benefit from the use of this invaluable drug.
ch.x1]  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  171

in which its use would be most beneficial. In India,
he argued, it would be possible to find a climate and
localities favourable to the growth and propagation of
the plants. So intense was his desire to carry out this
project that he formulated plans for collecting cinchona
trees and seeds from their natural homes in Peru,
Bolivia, and the region of the upper waters of the
Amazon, with the object of transporting them to selected
sites in India.

    These plans he was permitted to lay before the Revenue
Committee of the India Office with a view of their being

adopted, if approved. So highly important were they

regarded by the authorities, that in the latter part of
 1859 Markham was selected by the Secretary of State
for India, to carry out all the arrangements for the
collection in South America of cinchona plants and
seeds, of those particular species known to be of medicinal
value, and to superintend their transportation and
introduction into India.

   This was an important mission to be entrusted to
so young a man -- he was but twenty-nine at the time
-- and to one who had been so recently appointed
to the India Office; but, as events turned out, a

better choice could not have been made. That he was

eminently fitted for the purpose by his recent travels
in Peru, his knowledge of the interior, and his acquaint
ance with the language, could not be questioned. But
the task that was being entrusted to him required not

only real and ability for exploration, but considerable
tact. The Peruvian authorities, as well as the natives,

were not likely to permit freely such a valuable com

modity as quinine to be exported on a large scale for
cultivation elsewhere, especially as they possessed prac
tically the monopoly of its supply. In other words, it
would be necessary to smuggle the plants out of the
country without arousing suspicion in the minds of the

local authorities. This being accomplished the plants and

seeds would have to be conveyed to India and Ceylon,
172  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA                   [ch. x1

where they would be distributed in certain districts

specially selected for their cultivation.
Of the national importance of the project it is unneces

sary to dilate. The successful introduction of products of

the vegetable kingdom into lands far distant from their

indigenous soil, has been one of the greatest blessings

vouchsafed to mankind. By his individual exertions

in promoting and carrying out this enterprise, Clements

Markham brought relief to a fever-stricken population,

and assured to the world a plentiful supply of an indis
pensable drug, while providing a new industry and
source of wealth to our great Dependency. It cannot

hbeimdseoluf bt"edmothreatduinrasbole  doing  he raised a monument to
                                        than  the proudest monuments

of engineering skill."

The region in South America in which the cinchona-

trees flourish extends, roughly, from about 200 South

latitude to 1o0 North latitude, following very closely

the almost semicircular curve of the Andean range

for a distance of about 1,700 miles of latitude. They

grow in a fairly cool and equable temperature (even in
the equatorial regions) on the slopes and in the valleys

of the Andes, as high as 9,000 feet, and never below

2,500 feet, above the sea-level. The enterprise was

admittedly a difficult and hazardous one. It necessi

tated a laborious journey with a train of baggage animals

and men through a country which, in many parts,

had not been hitherto visited by English travellers.

They would be compelled to force their way through

almost impenetrable forests covered with dense under

growth, and would have to conceal from the natives,

as far as possible, the real object of their journey.

There would also be hardships and privations of no

ordinary nature to be borne and overcome.

The organising of the expedition needed careful

thought. Markham was to be assisted by four English

men, specially selected for their experience of the cinchona

plants and their knowledge of the country. One of
ch.x1]  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  173

them, Mr. Spruce, was an experienced botanist who had
spent many years in the wilds of South America. To
his zeal and untiring efforts in carrying out the duties
entrusted to him, a large share of the success of the

enterprise was due. Markham determined at the outset

on dividing the expedition into three separate parties.
One, under the leadership of Mr. Spruce, was to proceed
to the cinchona forests situated in Ecuador. The

forests of the Peruvian province of Huanuco were
allotted to a Mr. Prichett, who was well acquainted
with that particular district, while Markham undertook
to explore the forests of Caravaya, and if necessary
those situated in Bolivia also. His principal object
in employing his agents in regions so widely removed

from each other was to secure as many different speci
mens of the most valuable species as possible; and he
also wisely considered that it was preferable to have

more than one string to his bow in the event -- a not
unlikely one --of the failure which might possibly con
front a single-handed attempt. By means of these three

independent expeditions he hoped, not unreasonably,
that success would reward the efforts of at least one of

them. It was a well-conceived idea, and, as it turned

out, a wise one; for they were able to procure a greater
variety of the cinchona than otherwise they could have

done, if the collection had been limited to only one

region .

   Having completed all his arrangements, and accom
pan1ed by his wife and a Mr. Weir, a botanical expert

specially selected to assist him, he left England on the
17th of December, 1859, and, crossing the Isthmus of
Panama, arrived at Lima on the 26th of January, 1860.

The moment he landed, he found himself surrounded by

old friends, delighted to welcome him back again to
Lima, and eager to extend the same hosp1table reception
to Mrs. Markham which they had always proffered to

him. A month was spent in Lima organising the
party and arranging for supplies and their transport, a
174           THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA                                     [ch.x1

somewhat formidable undertaking. This done, they
proceeded to the port of Islay, which was more con
veniently situated than Lima for the beginning of their

journey into the interior of Peru.

   On the 6th of March, the transport animals having
arrived safely, and everything being in readiness, a
start was made for Arequipa along the same route as
Markham had travelled seven years before. But under
what different circumstances had that journey been
made ! Then, be was returning to Lima after accom

plishing a remarkable journey which he had undertaken
on his own account and solely in his own interest;

now, he was the trusted and responsible agent of thi
British Government, despatched on a mission which, if

brought to a successful issue, would not only redound

greatly to his credit, but prove of priceless benefit to

humanity.

  Arequipa* was reached on the nth of March, and

here they remained for ten days, resting the baggage
animals and making their final preparations for the
long journey into the interior. As it would have been

quite out of the question for Mrs. Markham to accom
pany her husband further, arrangements had to be made
for her stay at Arequipa during his absence. Through
the kindness of friends who were all eager to have the
pleasure of entertaining her in their houses, this was

easily arranged. At early dawn on the 23rd of March

Markham left on his long, toilsome journey to Puno,
travelling along the same route which he had taken in
1853. But after a few days, instead of continuing along
the Cuzco road, the party branched off to the east
ward, and, still ascending, they soon experienced the
unpleasant effects of the icy blasts which are so prev

alent in the upper region of the Cordilleras. Drizzling
mists and cloudy weather added to their discomforts.

wo*rdsTheArtneamqeuipAar,eqsuiigpnaifyisinrgepu"tebdehitnod  be derived  frpoemakth"e--Qnuamicheluya.
                                                              the sharp

Mount Misti.
ch.x1]                THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  175

   On reaching Apo, which is 14,350 feet above sea-
level, the majority of the party, including the mule-
drivers and even the transport animals, were attacked
by mountain sickness, a malady that not infrequently
terminates fatally. Markham describes the symptoms

from which he suffered :

" It began with a violent pressure on the head, accom
panied by acute pain and aches in the back of the neck,
causing great         pa1n and   discomfort, and these symptoms
increased in          1ntensity   during the night at the Apo
                      so that at 3 a.m.,  when we recommenced our
jpoousrtn-heoyu,seI,  was unable to       mount my mule without

assistance."*

   The post-houses erected for the benefit of travellers
in the desolate mountain passes between Arequipa and
Puno were invariably of the same character. They
consisted of low stone buildings, so constructed as to
form the three sides of a courtyard, and were each
divided into five small rooms with mud floors. The
furniture consisted of a rough table in each room, and
there was a raised platform of dried mud and stone on
one side on which the weary travellers reposed. The
roof was either thatched or indifferently tiled, and the
doors so roughly made that it was impossible to close

them !
   As they pursued their way, they saw many herds

of vicuftas browsing peacefully on the slopes of the
mountains, or galloping along at great speed, ,with

their noses close to the ground, as if scenting out
twheerebensutmpearsotuusre--s.werTeheoftmenounatasionurcsetreoafmsd--elaayndtothtehye

travellers. So winding were they that in one day

    * When travelling from Arequipa to Puno in 1881, the writer also
suffered from this so-called sorochi or mountain sickness, when he had
reached an altitude of 15,000 feet, and can testify to the accuracy of
the symptoms here related, except, he would like to add, that violent
sickness is also a very prevalent symptom. The effects in his case
did not wear off until some days after he had reached sea-level.
176      THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA               [ch.x1

their path led them across the same river about a dozen

times !

   After travelling over  an extensive plain  "inAlatlomodste
continuous snowstorms,     they reached the

Toledo," the highest part of their route, 15,590 feet

above sea-level, and shortly after came to the post-
house of Cuevillas, where they halted for the night. In

the immediate neighbourhood were two large lakes,

from one of which a river flows direct into Lake Titicaca,

thus conclusively showing that they were passing the

watershed between that great lake and the Pacific

Ocean. The scenery, though desolate and sterile, was

grand and impressive, and in some of its aspects it

reminded Markham of similar prominent scenic features

observed by him in the Arctic Regions. The tempera

ture at this stage of their journey was generally at or
about freezing-point, though it rose slightly during

the day, as the power of the sun gradually asserted

itself.

   The plains into which they descended were often so
swampy as to be almost impassable, and it was with

the greatest difficulty that they could persuade their

animals to cross them. The poor beasts splashed

through the water, sometimes sinking so deeply into

the tenacious mud that it was only by desperate exer

tions they could extricate themselves.

They had now passed the highest point of their

journey ; thence the route led them steadily downwards.

The vicunas had all disappeared, for they confine them

selves to the loftiest and wildest parts of the mountains ;

but the feeling of solitude caused by their loss was

somewhat compensated for by the increased number and

variety of birds, and by the quantities of wild-flowers

that grew in the vicinity of their route. Plovers were

seen in great numbers, uttering their discordant notes

as they flew overhead or skimmed near the ground in

circles. Green parroquets were also seen, and brightly

coloured finches, also partridges, but what delighted them
ch.x1]      THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA                                    177

most was the glorious coraquenque ,* the royal bird of
the Incas, the black and white wing feathers of which

were invariably used to surmount the imperial llautu,
or head-fringe, of the reigning sovereigns of Peru.

   On reaching the banks of the River Tortorani, they
found it to be so swollen as to be impassable. Following
its course for some distance, they came to a magnificent
waterfall, its waters plunging in a glorious cascade down

a sheer declivity of about 250 feet. A few miles farther

on they crossed by a bridge, and obtained their first

sight of the great lake Titicaca, with the snow-clad

mountains behind it. A steep zigzag path led them

down to the city of Puno, the capital of the department
of the same name. The town is situated on the shores

of the lake, and is hemmed in, like an amphitheatre,

by a wall of silver-yielding mountains.
   Lake Titicaca has the reputation of being the highest

lake in the world, at any rate of its size, as it is un

doubtedly the largest in South America. It is eighty

miles in length, and forty miles wide, and is 13,000 feet
above the level of the sea. In Markham's time the only
vessels, or rather conveyances, that sailed upon it were

* This is evidently the condor --the Vultur Gryphus of Linnseus,
and the Sarcoramphus Gryphus of Cuvier. Its black-and-white

wing   feathers  choisrre"spCoonmd metontatrhiees  description given  by Garcillasso
de la  Vega in                                       of the Yncas,"   translated and

printed by  the Hakluyt   Society in 1871, who,    wdreitsecsri:bin" gBetshideesheathde
dress worn  exclusively  by the reigning Inca,

red fringe which he wore across his forehead, from one temple to

the other was another device peculiar to himself, consisting of
wing feathers of a bird called ' Coraquenque.' The feathers are

white, with a black patch taken one from one wing, and the other

from the other, so as to match. The birds whence these feathers
are taken inhabit the wild region of Vilcafiota, 32 leagues from the
city of Cuzco, in a small lake at the foot of those inaccessible snowy

mountains. Those who have seen them declare that more than a

couple, male and female, are never seen at a time. It is not known
whence they come, nor where they breed." It is a more handsome
and imposing bird than the common condor; its head feathers are
of a brilliant scarlet hue, the body is black, and it has long wing

feathers of spotless white.
178  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  [ch. x1

large bundles of reeds tied together, called balsas, which
were impelled, when the wind was favourable, by a reed
sail. They were unsinkable, but their progress was neces
sarily somewhat slow. Now steamers of considerable size,

specially constructed for lake navigation, are employed
both for carrying passengers and cargo to the various
ports on the lake, which, by the way, abounds with fish
of very peculiar forms. Close to Puno are the silver-
bearing mountains of Cancharani and Laycaycota, while
away to the south-east, in the State of Bolivia, is situated
the town of Potosi, celebrated for its argentiferous

 deposits.
    After much anxious consideration regarding the

political state of affairs between Peru and Bolivia, and
the immediate possibility of war breaking out between
these two nations (which, of course, would have enor
mously increased the difficulties of his enterprise),
Markham resolved to confine his attention solely to the
Peruvian province of Caravaya. This to his mind
insured the greater prospect of success so far as regards
the transportation of his collections to the coast. He
therefore decided to relinquish all idea of going to
Bolivia, and to proceed at once to the forests of Caravaya.
This was a wise decision, for he discovered subsequently
that the Bolivian authorities were exceedingly jealous of

the monopoly they undoubtedly possessed regarding the
exportation of quinine, and, it was whispered, the nature
of Markham 's mission was already suspected by them.

    During his stay at Puno he found time to visit some
old ruins in the immediate neighbourhood, and succeeded

in gathering much information concerning the ancient
history of the country and its interesting inhabitants.
He left Puno on the 7th of April, 1 860. He experienced
some little trouble at starting with his mules. He thus

describes the incident :

   " Four vicious-looking brutes accordingly made their
appearance, and we started; but no sooner had we
reached the plain at the top of the zigzag path leading
ch.x1]       THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA                               179

out of Puno to the north, than they all ran away in
different directions, kicking violently. After hours of
this kind of annoyance, I at last got one of the brutes
into a corner of a stone-fenced field, but just as I was
about to catch him   he Igtaevnedaedkiicnk,ojuurmhpaevdinogvetor  the wall,
and went off again.                                               drag the
mules   by their lassos until our  arms were nearly torn
out of  the sockets, and thus we    ignominiously entered
             of Paucarcolla late in the evening, only twelve
the village
miles from    Puno. As for the scenery, I can remember
nothing but vicious mules with their hind-legs kicking
up in the air."

   This little incident, one only of many similar occur
rences, is a sample of the difficulties and worries atten
dant on the journey of a party in such a country, before
the introduction of railways. They had not even the

benefit of properly constructed roads. Occasionally
they came upon streams that had swollen into broad
rivers, but devoid of bridges, and with no fords that were

passable. The only way was to ferry men and baggage
across on the reed balsas aforementioned ; the mules, of

course, had to swim. Nor was rest always to be had

at the huts where they spent the night. At one of the

post-houses at which they stopped they found that a
poor little child had just died. Its body was laid out
on the table, with candles burning before it, while the

friends of the post-master were holding a wake --singing,

fiddling, and drinking. Many hailstorms were experi
enced, and the weather altogether was atrocious. The

mules, too, were a source of continuous trouble. Mark-

ham had no experienced muleteer with him, for, on the
score of economy, he had declined to engage one, think
ing he would be able to manage the animals him
self. He soon found out his mistake. Whenever the

brutes had the chance, they would bolt off the road in
different directions, bumping their packs against the
rocks or endeavouring to roll, which, of course, would

soon have smashed everything they were carrying.
In this way Markham was kept constantly employed
180  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  [ch. x1

galloping after the runaways, thus materially adding
to the fatigues of a very fatiguing journey. On more
than one occasion the mules obtained at the post-houses

to make good the casualties incurred on the way proved,

after travelling some little distance, so weak and unfitted
for the work as to necessitate Markham's return to the
post-house to have them exchanged. Altogether it was
a most annoying and difficult journey, but with it all he

was never despondent, always cheery, even in the most

trying circumstances.
   From the town of Lampa, where he was hospitably

entertained by the Subprefect, he pursued a northerly
course along a path covered with recently fallen snow,
and up a steep mountain range called Chacunchaca.
The path was a long and dangerous one, with little

mountain torrents running down the slopes and pouring

over it. At Pucara, where he rested for the night, he

passed the evening in the company of the aged Cura,
Don Jos6 Faustino Dava, who was famed for his know
ledge of the Quichua language. From him Markham
obtained some valuable information regarding the
antiquities of the Incas and the Quichua tongue.

    From Puno to Pucara he had kept on the main-road

to Cuzco, where post-houses were systematically es
tablished at which he had been able to obtain changes
of mules; but from Pucara this convenience ceased,

and henceforth he was obliged to depend on the kind

ness of anyone who could be induced to sell or hire their
animals to him.

    After a weary ride downhill for several leagues, he
came to the little town of Azangaro, the capital of the
province of that name. He put up for the night at
the house of Don Luiz Quinones, one of the principal
inhabitants, who, as was the invariable custom of the

country, gave him a very cordial welcome. On leaving
Azangaro, the party crossed the river of the same name
 by the aid of balsas, the mules swimming alongside,
and thence passed over the rocky range of Paco-bamba
Ch.x1]  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA                             181

to the little village of San Jose\ Here the transport
animals completely broke down, but by great good

fortune they were able to hire four ponies to take them
as far as Crucero, but on the distinct understanding that

they should be taken no farther. From San Jos^ the
road lay up a long ravine for several leagues. This was
the Pass of Sunipana, the height of the summit of which
Markham computed (by means of a boiling-point ther

mometer) to be 16,700 feet. It was bitterly cold,

but the scenery was magnificent. Here the end of their

journey came in sight, for in the far distance they caught
a glimpse of the mountains of Caravaya. The province
of Caravaya has long been famed as a gold producing
district. The old Inca historian Garcilasso de la Vega

writes:

" The richest gold-mines in Peru are of Collahuaya,
which the Spaniards call Caravaya, whence they obtain
much    very fine   gold  of 24 carats,  and  they  still  get
some,   but not in  such  abundance."

The same evening they reached Crucero, so named

from the cross-roads which branch off here to the

various forest villages.

Although the capital of the province of Caravaya,

Crucero is but a collection of comfortless mud houses,

with a  small   dilapidated    church    in the (so-called)
plaza.           intensely   cold, and    they experienced
        It was

heavy snowstorms during the night. Markham records

that while he was there the inhabitants sat wrapped

up in their ponchos without fires, shivering in a dreary,

helpless way until sunset, when they all retired to bed,

that being the only comfortable and warm place to go
to. In spite of the cheerless dreariness of the place,

he had perforce to remain there a day or two in order

to rest his beasts. On the 18th of April he set out on

his way to the cinchona forests.

   The first night after leaving Crucero was spent in

a shepherd's hut. It was built of loose stones, with no

                                                    13
1 82  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  [ch.x1

plaster or mud to fill the chinks, so that the piercingly
cold wind blew right through it. The entrance was
partially screened by a sheepskin hung across the door
way. The Indian family inhabiting the hut, however,
were most kind and hospitable, and provided them with
plenty of fresh milk. Next morning the party con
tinued their journey, a hard white frost covering the

ground. At the hut which they reached that evening,

Markham met a red-faced and apparently choleric old
gentleman named Don Martel, who informed him that he

had been a Colonel in the Peruvian Army, and had
suffered persecution for allegiance to his party. He
said that he had lost much money in the quinine trade,

and had a good deal to say, not very complimentary,
about the Dutch agent who had come over to obtain
cinchona plants in 1854 for cultivation in Java. He

went on to say that if the Dutchman, or anyone else,

ever attempted to take cascarilla (cinchona) plants out
of the country again, he would stir up the people to
seize them and cut off their feet ! Markham shrewdly

suspected that all this bluster was intentionally directed
at him, and that by some means or other the quondam
Colonel had received a hint regarding the object of his

journey, and was endeavouring to dissuade him from
proceeding farther. He was not sorry to bid him fare

well.

    The scenery as they passed through the deep and

narrow gorge of Cuyo-cuyo was magnificent. Terraced
gardens, some abandoned, some under cultivation,
rose on either hand where the sides of the gorge were
not too precipitous. Rising at the head of the ravine,
the River Sandia pursued its course past the village of
Cuyo-cuyo, bordered by ferns and wild-flowers. Here
 and there a cluster of huts could be seen nestling together

 on the terraces above, seemingly suspended in the air.
    On the morning of the 20th of April, they reached

 the confluence of the Rivers Sandia and Huaccuyo.

 Thenceforward the stream became a roaring torrent,
ch.x1]  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  183

dashing over huge rocks in its course towards the
village of Sandia. Cascades poured down the sides of

the mountains in every direction. It was a wonderful

scene, and its wild beauty unquestionably assisted
very materially in directing their thoughts from the
execrable and often perilous road along which they
were travelling. The descent from the summit of the

pass over the Caravayan Andes to Sandia is a consider
able one, for it is nearly 7,000 feet in a distance of about
thirty miles; and the climatic conditions change from
Arctic to subtropical. The pass is 13,600 feet above

sea-level, while Sandia is but 6,930.

   On arrival in Sandia (where he remained a couple
of days), Markham discovered that his choleric friend

Don Martel had already communicated with several

of the influential inhabitants of the district, advising
them to raise every obstacle in their power to prevent
him from procuring cinchona plants or seeds with the
object of transplanting them out of the country. He
also found that Don Martel was instigating the people
of all the other villages bordering the cinchona forests
to the same effect. This necessitated an alteration in
Markham 's plans. He had contemplated examining

the forests carefully and leisurely before making his
principal collection, which would be in August, when the
seeds were ripe. He now decided that his only chance
of success, his mission being known, was to collect the

plants as speedily as possible, and thus anticipate any
obstruction that might be contemplated against him.
 He was obliged, therefore, to make all his preparations
for the journey into the forests before leaving Sandia, as
there would be no possibility of procuring supplies of

any kind after he left that town. A stock of bread

was procured to last for about a month. This had to
 be toasted in the Cura's oven, for it was the only one
in the place. This, with some cheese and chocolate,
 formed the provisions for himself and his companion,
 Mr. Weir. The remainder of the party was composed of
184  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  [ch. x1

Pablo the mestizo, four Indians, and two mules. Alto

gether the supplies consisted of tea, sugar, chocolate,

toasted bread, cheese, candles, concentrated beef-tea, a

change of clothes each, instruments, powder and shot, a
tent, ponchos, with maize and salt meat for Pablo and
the Indians. Most of these articles were packed in six
leathern bags and carried by the mules and the Indians.
One of the latter traitorously deserted on the first day
out, leaving only three men, who were barely able to
carry the surplus stores and provisions that could not

be packed on the mules.

   They left Sandia late in the afternoon of the 24th of
April. The road led down the ravine along narrow
ledges overhanging the river, which flowed for the most

part between perpendicular cliffs. The path was very
narrow and dangerous, but the scenery was magnificent,

and the vegetation became richer and more tropical
as they descended. The few scattered huts which they

passed possessed no doors, a striking testimony to the
confidence of the inmates in the honesty of the passers-

by. At one part of the road the mountains rose per

pendicularly on the opposite side of the ravine, only
about 60 yards off, yet the river at the bottom of the
gorge was many hundreds of feet below. This will
give some little idea as to the precipitous nature of the

sides of the ravine. It was here they came across the first

traces of cinchona plants, but not in sufficient quantities
to induce them to begin collecting. Markham, however,

noted and marked down all likely-looking specimens, so

that he would have no difficulty in finding them, if

necessary, on the return journey. The party then made
for the forest-covered valley of Tambopata, a veritable
plantation of cinchona trees.

   On reaching the banks of the River Huari-huari they
halted, and camped under a large rock, for there was
no room to pitch a tent. This was their first experience
of camping out, for hitherto they had been able to pass

the nights in the roadside tambos. It was not, however,
ch.x1]  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  185

a very pleasant experience, for a drizzling rain com
menced to fall shortly after midnight, and continued
until the morning.

   Crossing a rude and somewhat primitive bridge over
the Huari-huari, they made their way next morning
up the face of the steep mountain opposite their camp,
through a dense forest, and into the grassy highlands.
The day was spent in searching for plants, but with
indifferent success. Proceeding, they forced their way

through the forest, their progress being much retarded
by closely matted masses of ferns, fallen bamboos,
and the roots of enormous trees, with an exceedingly
tenacious yellow mud underfoot. In many places,

so overgrown was the forest and so dense the foliage,
that it was almost dark, even at noon, except where a

few gaps in the forest admitted the interrupted rays
of the sun, which shed a pale light across their gloomy

surroundings. It was a weird, uncanny scene.

    But it would be wearisome to follow Markham day
by day in his search for plants. One day was almost
the counterpart of another. Suffice it to say that his
labours were crowned with complete success; it was,

however, a success attained only by undaunted per
severance accompanied by many hardships, but always
with that cheerfulness with which he invariably kept his
men in good spirits, while husbanding their strength

and efficiency.
   The natives have a habit of rolling up coca leaves

into a ball and chewing it whenever they are engaged
in arduous work. Markham soon adopted this habit,
and found that, in addition to the soothing effect which
it produced, it enabled him to endure longer abstinence
from food with less inconvenience than he would other

wise have felt, and he was able to climb steep mountains
not only without losing breath, but with a feeling of

lightness and elasticity.
    Before attempting to penetrate the depths of the

virgin forest, Markham had succeeded in procuring
1 86  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  [ch. x1

a guide named Martinez, who was thoroughly ac
quainted with all the different species of cinchona-

trees, besides being an expert woodman, intelligent,
active, and obliging. On the 1st of May they entered
the dense entangled forest where, it was generally

believed, no European had ever before penetrated. The

party was now seven in number, and all were provided
with machetes, or long knives, with which to clear the
way. Martinez went in front; the rest followed in

single file. The trees were of great height, and the ground
choked with creepers, masses of fallen bamboos, and

long tendrils which twisted round their ankles and
tripped them up at almost every step. In many places
they had to scramble through this primeval forest along
the verge of giddy precipices overhanging a violent,

rushing river. Frequently they came upon small clear

ings where some gigantic tree had fallen, bearing all

before it as it dashed over the cliff into the surging
torrent below. Sometimes it took them more than a

quarter of an hour to cut their way through a space of
perhaps only 20 yards in length.

   For more than a fortnight they were actively engaged

examining the cinchona region and collecting plants.
The magnitude and variety of the forest trees were very
striking. The imposing character of the scenery in
those vast solitudes was a source of constant enjoyment
to Markham, and lightened materially the fatigues
of a very arduous journey. The torments they suffered
from biting and stinging insects were maddening.
There was one special kind of fly which in a moment

raised swellings and blood-red lumps, causing great pain
and irritation. Even the butterflies and moths were
so numerous and so devoid of fear as to become a

perfect plague.
   One evening, on his return to camp dead-beat and

drenched to the skin, Markham found his Indians in
a state of mutiny. They declared that they had been
away long enough, that they had no maize or coca left,
ch.x1]  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  187

and that they must return at once to their homes.

It required all his persuasive eloquence to induce them

to change their minds. He told them, in their own

expressive language, that if they deserted him they

were liars, thieves, traitors, and children of the devil,

whose punishment would soon overtake them; while

if they were true, and remained loyal to him, they would

be well rewarded. His great effort in the Quichua
tongue had the desired effect, peace was restored, and

harmony reigned once more.
    On the 7th of May they found to their dismay that their

provisions were entirely expended; only a few bread
crumbs remained in a corner of one of the provision
bags. As famine was staring them in the face, a hasty
retreat became an absolute necessity. The plants
were carefully packed in layers of moss, and sewn up in
matting brought specially for the purpose. Altogether
about 200 cinchona plants were collected and packed.
Their start was not made under pleasing conditions.

It was pouring with rain, the forest was saturated,

they were soaked to the skin, their hands wrinkled like

a washerwoman's after a hard day's washing, and their

gunpowder was so damp as to be useless. On reaching
 the precipice of Ccasasani, they scrambled up its slippery
 sides in the rain, and were fortunate in securing 21 good
specimens. The following day they obtained no less

 than 172, and on the succeeding day they gathered 109.
 They had now collected a sufficient number of cinchona
 plants to warrant their return, quite enough to fill the
 Wardian cases* which were awaiting their arrival at the

 port of Islay.
    Residing in the valley of Tambopata was an old

 Bolivian named Don Juan de la Cruz Gironda. He had
 been most obliging and helpful to Markham, and had

    * Cases specially designed and constructed for the conveyance
of the cinchona plants during long journeys. They were filled with
soil to a depth of 9 or 10 inches, in which the specimens were planted,
-l1d kept well watered during the voyage.
1 88  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA         [ch. x1

supplied him with his guide Martinez. Without his

aid, Markham and his party would have been exposed

to much suffering from want of food . On the 1 1 th of

May, the packing of the plants being nearly com

pleted, Gironda received an ominous letter from the

Alcalde Municipal of Quiaca, ordering him to prevent

a single plant from leaving the district, and to arrest

Markham with his guide Martinez and send them to

Quiaca I                             It appeared that
   This was somewhat disconcerting.

an outcry against the Englishman's proceedings had

been started by Don Manuel Martel, the red-faced gentle

man whom Markham had met on the road to Sandia,

and that the people of that town and Quiaca had been
excited and perturbed by assertions that the exportation

of cascarilla seeds would certainly result in the financial

ruin of themselves and their descendants. Gironda,

though friendly and hospitable, feared the anger of the

people, for, he thought, they would always regard him as

the man who had been instrumental in permitting a

stranger to injure his countrymen. In his own defence,

he suggested that the plants should be thrown away,

with the exception, perhaps, of a few that might be

smuggled out of the country unknown to the authorities.

This, however, was not Markham's view, after all the

trouble he had taken to obtain them ; but he realised the

necessity of an immediate retreat. It was the only hope

of saving the plants, which he was prepared to defend by

force, if necessary. At the same time he addressed a

letter to the Alcalde of Quiaca informing him that his
interference was an unwarrantable step which he could

not tolerate, and reminding him that his office was

purely consultative and legislative, conferring upon him

no executive powers whatever. He concluded by ex

pressing his sense of the Alcalde's patriotic zeal, while
regretting that it should be accompanied by such mis

guided and lamentable ignorance of the true interests

of his^countryM
ch.x1]       THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA                              189

Nevertheless, in spite of the delay which he hoped to

procure by this somewhat grandiloquent effusion, he felt
that it was imperative to leave the district immediately.

The urgency of his decision was accentuated when he

learnt, from the Indian who had brought the letter from

Quiaca, that Martel's son with a party were approaching,

and that they were only the vanguard of a large body

of mestizos* who were coming down the valley to seize

him and destroy his collection of plants. Accordingly,

early on the morning of the 12th he took leave of his

kind old     f"rieTnhde  Gironda and set out. As he  writes in   his
journal,                  most melancholy part of    travelling   is

the parting with friends never to meet again."
After an exceedingly laborious ascent through the

forest, they unexpectedly came across Martel's son and

his party, who were, apparently, lying in wait for them.

No attempt was made, however, to oppose or otherwise

impede their passage; but Markham made an osten

"tatmioauys  display of  his revolver, which, as he  remarks,
             have been    very efficacious, though   perfectly

harmless, as the powder was quite damp." Young

Martel asked the Indians how they dared to be so

unpatriotic as to assist in conveying the plants out of

the country, at the same time informing them that

they would certainly get no farther than'Sandia, where

the plants would be seized and confiscated. He was,

however, very civil to Markham, and permitted him
and his party to proceed on their, way without further

molestation. They were not a little apprehensive,

however, as to the turn affairs might take on their

arrival at Sandia.

Crossing the same country they had traversed on the

outward journey, and still adding to their collection

of plants whenever opportunities offered, they reached

Sandia on the 1 5th of May, where Markham found a some
what alarming state of affairs existed. The people were

   * Mestizo, a half-caste, born of a Spaniard and a South American
native.
1go  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  [ch. x1

wildly excited, consequent on the receipt of letters and
reports from Quiaca, and they were resorting to tactics
which would undoubtedly have succeeded in their object,
but for a great piece of good luck. Difficulties were
placed in the travellers' way to prevent them from
purchasing or hiring mules, except to go to Crucero,
where they knew Martel was stationed with the in
tention of delaying them until the plants had all been
killed by the frost. Markham was in despair, and even
contemplated the mad project of setting out on foot
by himself, with the four bundles of plants on his own
mule. In this dilemma he was approached by Don
Manuel Mena (a member of the municipal body whose
acquaintance he had made on his first visit to Sandia),

who confidentially informed him that, if he would give

him his gun, he (Don Manuel) would find an Indian
who could supply him with beasts and accompany him

to Vilque, on the road to Arequipa.
   Markham readily consented to this arrangement,

only too glad to have the difficulty solved. He then
despatched Mr. Weir and Pablo to Crucero, so as to
throw Martel off the scent, while he hurried the plants
down to the coast by a most difficult but unfrequented
line of country. The tidings, however, had been

promulgated, and effectual measures had been taken
to prevent his return to Caravaya for plants and seeds
in August, as he had previously arranged. Martel
had also written to all the towns and villages between
Crucero and Arequipa to put obstacles in the way of
his retreat, so it was necessary for him to avoid passing
through all populous districts. He determined, there

fore, to shape a direct compass course over the Cor
dilleras from Sandia to Vilque.

   This was a hazardous and difficult journey, but no other

way appeared to offer a better prospect of success. He
was well aware of the stupendous difficulties and dangers
that his scheme involved, but he had confidence in

himself, and trusted to his own energy and good luck
ch.x1]  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  191

to bring it to a successful issue. He left Sandia early

on the morning of the 17th of May, mounted on his
trusty mule, and driving before him two others laden
with the plants. He was accompanied only by an
Indian as a guide, named Angelino Paco, who was the
owner of the two mules. Mr. Weir started for Arequipa

on the same day by way of Crucero.
   Passing through Cuyo-cuyo without stopping, Mark-

ham had ascended a mountain gorge by the side of the
river, when he discovered, to his dismay, that Paco
had never been away from the valley of Sandia, knew
nothing of the country through which they travelled,
and was therefore useless as a guide. He was in con
sequence obliged to trust entirely to himself and his

compass to find his way across the Cordilleras. Night

coming on, they encamped ; but there was no fuel, and on
opening the bag they found that all their food and
matches had been stolen in Sandia. The situation was,
to say the least, awkward, and Markham had to rely

entirely on Paco's parched maize for sustenance. It

proved uncommonly hard fare ! The cold was intense
during the night.

    They resumed their march at daybreak, and, reaching
the summit of the snow-covered Cordillera of Caravaya,

continued their journey over lofty grass-covered plains
where the ground was frozen hard. As they advanced
all signs of life disappeared, and when evening set in
Markham looked round on the desolate scene, and
realised that to make a direct cut across the mountain

range to Vilque entailed a very disagreeable and danger
ous journey. They had been eleven hours in the saddle,

when Paco fortunately found a deserted shepherd's
 hut built of loose stones, about 3 feet high, and thatched
with wild-grass, in which they spent the night. The
 temperature was as low as 200 F.

    Next morning they found that the mules had wan
 dered away, and three hours were spent in finding and
 catching them. These beasts gave them much trouble
192  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  [ch. x1

and required constant supervision. If left to themselves

for a moment, they would attempt to lie down and roll,
which, needless to say, would have been fatal to the
plants that were strapped on their backs.

   On the third evening out from Sandia they arrived
unexpectedly at a rather well-to-do estancia, or sheep

farm. It was occupied by a family of good-tempered

Indians, who gave them unlimited supplies of milk

and cheese, thus enabling them to relieve the great
hunger from which they had suffered since leaving
Sandia. The next day they reached Lake Arapa, a
large sheet of water which had no existence on any
map. Markham states that he was the first English

traveller who had ever visited it. It was the resort of

immense flocks of flamingoes, and there were also

ibises, ducks, and cranes, in great quantities. On the

22nd of May they reached the little town of Vilque,
where they enjoyed a thoroughly well-earned rest after
their long and fatiguing journey. During all this time

Markham had taken the greatest care of his precious
plants, wrapping them up carefully every night in his

own poncho so as to protect them from the frost.
   Their stay at Vilque, however, was brief. Pushing

on as rapidly as possible, they rode into the city of
Arequipa on the 27th of May, with the treasured plants
intact, and apparently none the worse for their somewhat

severe usage on the journey. Here Markham had the
happiness of rejoining his wife, who had been anxiously
awaiting news of him for some time. The distance
from Sandia to Arequipa was nearly 300 miles. Two
days after his arrival his colleague Mr. Weir rejoined

him from Crucero. As Markham had anticipated, he

had found Martel in that town; but the Colonel's

designs had been completely baffled by Markham's

astuteness and ingenuity. No opposition was made to
his departure from Arequipa, and on the 3rd of June,
to his immense relief, his plants were all safely deposited
in the Wardian cases by Mr. Weir at the port of Islay.
ch.x1]  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  193

   But the difficulty of getting the plants out of the

country had not yet been finally overcome. The
Custom-house at Islay declared it to be illegal to export
cascarilla plants, and refused to allow them to be
shipped without an express order from the Minister
of Finance and Commerce. Markham did not hesitate.
He went straight to Lima, obtained the necessary
permission from the Minister of Finance, not without
some delay and trouble, and hurried back to Islay by
the first steamer, arriving there on the 23rd of June.
Meanwhile, since the plants had been placed in the
Wardian cases, they had begun to bud and throw out
young leaves, satisfactory proof that they had quite
recovered from the severity of their journey across

the Andes.

   On the evening of the 23rd the cases containing the
plants were hoisted into a boat, ready to be taken on
board the steamer the following morning. That night

attempts were made to bribe the man in charge to bore
holes in the cases and kill the plants by pouring in
boiling water ! Fortunately, this scheme was dis
covered in time and frustrated, and on the following

morning they were safely shipped on board the steamer

bound for Panama. It was disappointing, however,

that there was no ship available, man-of-war or other
wise, to take the plants direct from Peru to Madras,

and so avoid the long voyages, numerous transhipments,
and the intense heat of the Red Sea, before this most

valuable collection of plants could reach its destination

in Southern India.
   After all the extraordinary difficulties that had been

so successfully surmounted -- the hardships and dangers
that had been experienced and overcome, the scarcity
of the plants in the forests, the difficulty in finding
them in the dense underwood, the efforts that had
been made, first to prevent their exportation, and then
to destroy them -- his success could not be otherwise
than a source of great gratification to Markham. He
194  THE QUEST FOR CINCHONA  [ch. x1

could now afford to look back on all these attempted
impediments to success that had been placed in his way
with complacency, and confidently realise that it was
only by his own individual courage, energy, and ability,

that the enterprise had been brought to such a satis
factory conclusion.

    The arrangements for the carrying out of what may

be called the subsidiary expeditions have already been

alluded to. It is sufficient here to state that the results

were eminently satisfactory. Markham's wisdom in

the disposition of his forces was clearly established: an

admirable collection of plants and seeds was made and
safely exported to the Neilgherry Hills in Southern

India.
    After a sojourn of a few days at Lima, Markham and

his wife took a final farewell of the Land of the Incas,
and on the 29th of June, 1860, proceeded on their way
 to England.
        CHAPTER XII

        WORK IN INDIA

Although Markham's work in Peru had terminated,

there still remained the completion of his task in India.

Plants and seeds of. every species of cinchona valuable

to commerce, had been brought down from the forests

in the interior of South America, and shipped to Madras.

Botanical specimens of all the species had also been

collected and sent to the herbarium at Kew for verifi

cation, so that their identity could be placed beyond

the possibility of doubt. In conveying the plants to

the coast, however, only half the difficulties of the

enterprise had been surmounted; the long journey to

their eventual destination had now to be made, part of

it through an intensely hot climate. Every little detail

regarding the care of the plants during their transit

had been carefully considered and arranged, and at

length all was satisfactorily accomplished. When we

consider the length of the voyage, the changes of tem
perature, and the numerous transhipments, it cannot

but be acknowledged that it is little short of marvellous

that these plants should have been so successfully trans

ported through thousands of miles, in varying climates,

from the slopes of the Andes to the Ghauts in Southern

India.

Markham had no sooner landed in England than he had

to start off again at once (still accompanied by his wife),
to superintend the landing of the plants in India. He

decided to land at Calicut, on the coast of Malabar, a

wsphoetrewh"icNhathueredeisscricblaeds  as  the garden of   the Peninsula,
                                             her brightest   and most in
                                        in

                                            195
196  WORK IN INDIA  [ch.xn

viting robes; the scenery is magnificent, the fields and
gardens speak of plenty, and the dwellings of the people

are substantial and comfortable."

   They landed on the 7th of October, 1 860, and found a
carriage drawn by two white bullocks awaiting their
arrival. This had been kindly placed at their disposal

by Mr. Patrick Grant, the Collector of Malabar. In

the evening they embarked in a long canoe, propelled

by four wiry-looking Indians, which had been specially
prepared to take them up the river to Beypur. They

journeyed throughout the night, the boatmen singing
noisy glees as they paddled along. In the morning
they reached the landing-place at Ediwanna, forty
miles from Calicut.

   Thence they continued their journey in hammocks

slung on bamboos, each carried by six men who kept

on uttering unearthly discordant yells during the
whole of the way to the village of Wundoor, a distance
of six miles. From here they gradually ascended until
they reached Ootacamund, the chief station on the
Neilgherry Hills, situated at an altitude of 7,300 feet
above sea-level. Thus they passed in a few hours from
a tropical to a temperate zone. The face of Nature
assumed a different aspect; and when they arrived at
the door of their hotel, it was difficult to persuade

themselves that they were not in England. The garden
in front of the hotel was bountifully stocked with
mignonette, wallflowers, and fuchsias all in full bloom,
while the immense bushes of heliotrope rose to a height
that they could never have attained in England. Roses
and geraniums grew in profusion ; ponds were to be seen
bordered by white arums; and there were thickets of

rhododendrons, with many other shrubs and flowers

which one associates with English gardens. Markham
declared that this charming spot was more like an
English watering-place in summer than India. He

was delighted with it; for he felt assured that the

climate would be suitable for the growth and cultivation
ch.xn]  WORK IN INDIA  197

of the cinchona, while, for those species that required

a warmer climate, suitable areas could be found on thc

forest slopes that overlooked the plains.
   In selecting the sites for the cinchona plantations,

many things had to be taken into consideration. Apart
from climatic conditions, it was necessary to select

a. soil, and shade, closely approaching their native
habitat. The supply of labour had also to be taken
into account, not only for their cultivation, but also for
the transportation of the quinine-bearing bark to the
sea-coast. This was a work entailing much time, much
examination of suitable properties, and a great deal of
travelling. The latter, however, was of a much more
easy and pleasant nature than Markham had experienced
in his search for the plants in the untrodden forests of
Caravaya, and he thoroughly enjoyed it, being greatly
interested in all he saw.

   It would be out of place here to give a lengthy de

scription of the country through which Markham
travelled in his search for the most appropriate sites for
the cinchona plantations. He had, of course, the
assistance of the best authorities, and the subsequent
results were sufficient evidence of the wisdom of their

conclusions. It must not be forgotten that different

regions had to be selected for the various species of the

cinchona plants. Some would grow only at a high
altitude, whilst others flourished at a lower elevation.

For some a tropical climate was necessary; others

required a temperate zone. Again, some few required
much moisture for their well-being, while many would
only prosper in a dry cNmate. Much therefore had to
be thought of, much debated, and many decisions of
the utmost importance arrived at.

   The work necessarily entailed a great deal of travelling.
Markham journeyed considerable distances in Southern
India, visiting the districts of Mysore, Seringapatam,
Coorg, the Deccan, Madura, and Trichinopoly. In
addition he made arrangements for the introduction of

                                                                            M
198            WORK IN INDIA                      [ch. xn

the cinchona plants into Burma and Ceylon. After much

anxiety,  and  rferceoqrudent"  disappointments,  he was glad to
be able    to                   that this great   and important
measure, fraught with blessings to the people of India,

and with no less beneficial results to the whole civilised

world, should have been finally attended with complete

success, in spite of difficulties of no ordinary character."
In carrying out this invaluable work, it would have
been a source of great regret to him had it been attended

by any injury to the people of Peru, Ecuador, or Bolivia.

But he had no apprehensions on that score. The

general demand for quinine was, and would remain,

invariably in excess of the supply obtained from those

countries. The trade of South America in this com

modity has in no way been impaired. Indeed, Mark-

ham's work was productive of much good to the countries

concerned. Hitherto, with short-sighted recklessness,

the people had destroyed a large number of the trees,

thus causing more injury to their own interests than

could possibly have arisen from commercial competition.

But the fact that the product could be obtained else

where necessitated the introduction of a strict con

servancy. In spite of the numerous obstructions that

had been placed in his way by local officials, and such

meddlesome busybodies as DonMartel,Markham strongly

emphasised the fact that he had full permission from

the Peruvian Government to tranship the plants, a per

mission which he had received in writing from the

Minister of Finance. It cannot, therefore, be said that

he acted in defiance of the laws of the country. There

was at that time no Peruvian law prohibiting the

exportation of cinchona plants and seeds. He was

convinced that the cultivation of the plants elsewhere

would not only benot detrimental, but would be beneficial,

to the interests of Peru; for it would teach the people

to cultivate the valuable trees that grew wild in their

forests, and not submit to their destruction. With

this object in view, Markham wrote a pamphlet in
ch.xn]         WORK IN INDIA                        199

Spanish, giving a full account of the various methods

adopted in the cultivation of the plants in British

India, and he expressed the hope that the day was not

far distant when the slopes of the Andes would be

covered with carefully supervised cinchona plantations.

He returned to England with his wife in 1861 , landing
at Folkestone on the 24th of April. Shortly afterwards
he was appointed private secretary to Mr. Baring (after
wards Lord Northbrook), who was then Secretary of

State for India, and therefore ruled over the depart

ment in which Markham was serving. Markham im

mediately commenced writing an account of           h" isTrwavoerkls,
                                                    Peruvian
which was published  in 1862, under the title of
in Peru and India."    This was followed by "
Bark," which appeared in 1880, illustrating the steady

and ever-growing prosperity of the enterprise, during a

period of nearly twenty years, in fact since the introduc

tion of cinchona into India. At that time he writes :

" The annual bark crop, from Government plantations
of British India alone, is already 490,000 pounds.
In 1879-80 the quantity of bark sold in the London
market from British India and Ceylon was 1,172,000
pounds. The East India source of bark-supply is now
the most important but one as regards quantity, and
by far the most important of all as regards quality.
On the Neilgherry H1lls the whole expend1ture has been
repaid with interest, by the sale of bark in the London
market, and     the Government is   now             deriving
large profits  of many thousands   a year   (1880)  the bark
                                             from
harvests. In Sikkim the true object of the undertaking
has been better understood, and the plantations are
utilised  for the supply  of a   --chebayp   and efficacious febri
fuge to   the people of   India             which it is placed in
the hands of the poorest ryot in that great Empire."

   By way of rest and recreation after his recent arduous

journeys in both Eastern and Western Hemispheres,

he now made two interesting trips with his wife --one to

Spain and one to Denmark.
   But his work in India was not yet completed. He
2oo  WORK IN INDIA  [ch. xn

soon returned there to assure himself that the plantations

were well and properly looked after, and that everything
was progressing satisfactorily. He found the planta
tions in splendid order, and the plants thriving in

such a manner as to afford him the liveliest satisfaction.

He had the pleasing conviction that his efforts and
energies for the benefit of mankind had not been thrown
away, but, on the contrary, would prove of even greater
value than he had hitherto anticipated.

    On his return he was directed to draw up elaborate

instructions for the care and cultivation of the plants,
for the guidance of those under whose charge they were

placed. He also submitted exhaustive reports to the
Secretary of State for India, on the general features of
his work, and the instructions that should be circulated
regarding the culture of the plantations, with numerous
other minor details regarding their management. Sir
Charles Wood, who had succeeded Mr. Baring as Secre
tary of State for India, expressed his entire satisfaction
with the admirable way in which Markham had dis

charged his duty --a duty of great public importance --

and at having brought to such a successful issue so

arduous a task.

  If Clements Markham had done nothing else during

his long and active fife, his work in Peru and India

alone would have sufficed to hand his name down to

posterity as a benefactor to his fellow-men. Apart
from all humanitarian considerations, he had created an

industry that brought no small wealth to his country.
In this connection it is, perhaps, not surprising to be told
that Markham should have felt that those who had
borne the heat and burden of the day, who amidst perils
and hardships of no ordinary kind had steadily per
severed in bringing the work to a most successful issue,

should be entitled to some consideration. A fair re

compense for their valuable services was in justice due.
But it was not forthcoming. Markham was indignant
with the authorities, for what he considered to be the
ch. xn]  WORK IN INDIA                    201

mean and unjust manner with which, in spite of his

urgent representations, his colleagues had been treated.

Monetary recompense, he pointed out, need not be paid

from revenue provided by the tax-payers of India, but

could be taken out of the profits of the work, which

had been so successfully accomplished by the very men

to whom a just reward was denied. These men, whose

cause he was advocating so strenuously, had laboured

zealously and willingly, and their duties had been of

a nature that required special qualifications. Some had

forfeited their health, all had risked their lives, in the

service of their country, and they had nobly earned

the gratitude of the Government and people of India.

Their high sense of honour prevented them from

making any individual representation directly or in

directly on the subject. They left the matter entirely

in Markham's hands, and he took up the cudgels on their

behalf with his usual characteristic energy. One who

had partially recovered from a severe attack of fever,

and threatenings of paralysis, received, for an ex

haustive and elaborate report on his work, the sum of

£27 ! Markham made     an earnest appeal   for a small
pension, but this was                     be borne in
                       refused. It must

mind that the whole cost of the expedition, which in

1 880 was yielding to the Government an annual income

of many thousands of pounds, was £857 ! Markham
then brought the case to the notice of the Indian

Government, but they merely transmitted his letter to

the Secretary of State in London, without any recom
mendation or mark of approval, and it was, conse

quently, again rejected. The others were treated in

a similar manner. No wonder that Markham, who

knew their worth and the value of their services, was

indignant at the treatment meted out to his fellow-

workers. They had loyally supported him throughout

the enterprise which had been entrusted to his guidance,

and should have been correspondingly recompensed.

   It was a great work to have achieved. Markham was
202  WORK IN INDIA  [ca.m

in sole charge of the enterprise from its initiation. He
superintended the .collecting of the plants in South
America; he arranged the details connected with their
transportation to British India ; he selected the sites for
their reception when they arrived; he supervised their
planting; and afterwards, for a period of fifteen years,
he had personal supervision of everything connected
with them at the India Office in London. He also made

repeated visits to India to satisfy himself that everything

was progressing satisfactorily. Needless to say he,
at any rate, received the thanks of the Government
for the excellent way in which he had accomplished the

duty that had been entrusted to him. It is, perhaps,

not too much to say that by the complete success of his

enterprise he has earned the gratitude of the whole
civilised world, and more especially the natives of
India and our military and other forces stationed in

that country. It may be interesting to relate that,

as a result of his labours, the price of quinine has been

reduced from twenty shillings an ounce to only a few

pence, and one of the greatest blessings that could
possibly be conferred on the fever-stricken East is now
within the reach of the poorest of the poor. For his
great services in this important enterprise the Govern
ment awarded him a grant of £3,000.

   Throughout his travels in Peru and India, Markham

had not confined himself solely to acquiring a scientific
knowledge of the cinchona. He in addition interested
himself in the study of the growth and cultivation of
coca in Peru ; of cotton, coffee, pepper, and caoutchouc,
in British India, and of India-rubber in the Valley of the

Amazon --on all these questions he submitted elaborate

reports and suggestions to the Government. He also

submitted a report on coffee production in the Wynaad
district, and one on the condition of the public roads
and thoroughfares in the various districts through

which he travelled, submitting at the same time a
ch.xn]     WORK IN INDIA                               203

memorandum suggesting a scheme by which improve

ments could very easily be effected at a trivial expense.

He likewise drew up a design for the construction of

a simple contrivance by which the rivers might be crossed

with ease and safety during the monsoon, when they

were usually swollen and almost impassable. Such a

bridge as he contemplated would be inexpensive, and

the outlay for its construction could easily be recouped,
if necessary, by the exaction of a small toll.

Another matter on which he reported fully was the

growth of ipecacuanha in Brazil : this with a view to

its cultivation in our Indian possessions, where climatic

conditions were, in his opinion, favourable to its growth.

He also submitted an exhaustive memorandum to the

Indian Government, on the introduction of the Peruvian

cotton plant into certain districts in the Province

of Madras, which appeared to him to be peculiarly

adapted for its cultivation. He supported his contention
by immediately procuring a supply of seeds from Peru,

which (by permission of the Secretary of State) he dis
tributed among the collectors of those districts in

Southern India who were most likely to interest them

selves in the experiment.

On his return to England, he was directed by the

Indian Government to report at length on the oyster

fishery at the mouth of the River Colne. This, it was

considered, might be the means of gaining important

information for reviving the rapidly diminishing fortunes

of the Tinnevelly pearl fishery. Having acquired as

thorough a knowledge of the subject as was possible

in the limited time at his disposal, he was despatched

to Tuticorin that he might discuss with the Super
intendent the various points connected with the Ex

perimental Pearl Oyster Nursery established there.

The Tinnevelly pearl industry has from time im
                                                       pearls that it
memorial   been famed  for  t"herigbhetauOtriifeunl t   lustre," and,
produces.   They have  the

from their sphericity and water, are among the most
204  WORK IN INDIA  [ch. h1

valuable to be found, although they rarely exceed

4 carats in weight. During the middle of the nineteenth
century, however, the oysters were recklessly destroyed
for the sake of immediate gain. This had the effect of

depleting the beds of their rich products to such an
extent as to necessitate a strict and judicious system of

conservancy, in order that the industry might be re

vived. It was then that Markham's assistance was in

voked, and he was instructed not only to report, but

also to advise as to the best means for the resuscita

tion of the trade, by which a regular and unfailing
source of revenue would be restored to the State.

   The only way by which he could reach Tuticorin

was by taking passage in a native schooner sailing from

Colombo in Ceylon . It was not a very dignified or comfort

able mode of travelling. Arrived at Tuticorin, he made

a thorough investigation of the existing state of affairs.
Not only was he able to report fully and satisfactorily
on the pearl fishery, but he was able to make many
suggestions for the necessary steps that should be

taken to revive the industry. He also issued instruc

tions for the management of the aquaria which, it had

been arranged, should be sent out from England.
   During this visit Markham devoted much time and

attention to the important question of coolie immigra

tion. He prepared a long report on this subject, which

was duly submitted to the Secretary of State in Council.

   All the time that he had been in India, he had given

a great deal of thought to the subject of irrigation,
especially in the Madura district. He now addressed
a long memorandum to the Government, calling their
attention to this most important question. The scarcity

--in some places the complete absence --of water was

a subject of the first magnitude. He pointed out

that large districts of waste, and therefore unprofit
able, land could, by the introduction of a system of

irrigation, be converted into a valuable and profitable

region which would eventually benefit the inhabitants
ch.xn]  WORK IN INDIA  205

of millions of square miles, besides becoming a source
of increased revenue to the State. From careful
personal observations made during his travels in India,
while superintending the cultivation of his cinchona
plants, he was made aware of the enormous districts
that were lying fallow, owing to the absence of irrigation.
Vast regions, which might otherwise have yielded

excellent crops, were nothing but arid uncultivated
wastes. By irrigating these dry regions, he firmly
believed that extensive tracts would be fertilised, that

prosperity would thus be insured to the native population
of those districts, and that a large sum would be added

to the revenue ; while the whole cost of carrying out the
scheme would be repaid in a couple of years from the
income derived from this source.

   Thus, it will be seen that his sympathies, whether in
India or South America, were invariably directed towards
the amelioration of the conditions of life of the natives.

Their interests and their happiness were ever uppermost
in his thoughts. Even when visiting the various
plantations, he was always careful to point out to the
natives the importance of the use of quinine to them

selves and the districts in which they resided, as well as

the great benefits to be derived from it as a febrifuge.

    But perhaps the great versatility of his mind is best
shown by the fact that in the midst of all his work he

was able to find time to submit long and exhaustive
memoranda to the India Office on such diverse matters

as the public works connected with the district of
Travancore; the new dock at Suez, constructed by the
French; an alternative route to India; the proposed
scheme for the improvement of the anchorage off
Aden; the desirability of increasing the dock accom
modation at Bombay and Mazagong, and a highly
technical report on the tides in the harbour of Bombay.
These »nd many other reports of a similar nature will
show the great activity of his mind, his hunger for work,
his thirst for knowledge, his capacity for acquiring it,
ao6  WORK IN INDIA  [ch. xn

his energy in prosecuting research, all helped by that
wonderfully retentive memory which he retained un
impaired to the end of his life.

   In 1 863 he accepted the position of Honorary Secretary
of the Royal Geographical Society, an office that he
held for twenty-five consecutive years, retiring in 1888,

when the Society, in recognition of his valuable services,

awarded him their Founder's gold medal. It is a curious

coincidence that the year of the birth of Clements
Markham coincided with the foundation of this Society,
which he served so well and truly, both having occurred
in 1830.
                    CHAPTER XIII

         THE ABYSSINIAN WAR

On Markham's return from India, his time, as may

readily be imagined, was fully occupied in framing his
various reports. In addition to picking up the threads

of his duties at the India Office, he was kept busy

arranging, for official and general publication, the

result of his work in connection with the cultivation

ooftrhffoemcTinAimcmthhooaeunzaor,.Sn"p,"a"nH"TiesrhTawhvaee"slsEEaxmlospofbeadbCsiuitseisyozialnyosfdeenCinglaatLogveeiojdonth,i"ento  translating

                                                                                                                                        Valleys of

                                                                                                                                        "  the Court
                                                                                                                                            The Life

of Alonzo de Guzman," and other works for the Hakluyt

Society, of which he was a very prominent and active

member.

About this time affairs in Abyssinia were causing

some anxiety, and a rupture with King Theodore seemed

imminent. So little was known then regarding the

geographical situation and boundaries of that country,

that to many persons, reference to a map was necessary

in order to ascertain its accessibility, or otherwise, in

the event of hostile operations becoming necessary.

The early history of Abyssinia dates back to a very

remote period, and  its rulers  claim   tthimatethoefir"                                                                                records can
be traced without   a break     to the                                                                                                   the Queen

of Sheba and her son Menilek, who brought the Ark
of the Covenant from Jerusalem and deposited it in
Axum." Whether or not this claim can be substanti

ated, there is no doubt that for many centuries it

had the reputation of being the only Christian nation

in Africa. As a matter of fact, Christianity was estab

                    207
208       THE ABYSSINIAN WAR                                                 [ch. xn1

lished there as the national religion about a.d. 320,

so that it may certainly be regarded as one of the most

ancient Christian Churches in the world.
of T"hePrecsotuenr trJyohanb,o"untdhsatwlietghenidnateryrestC. hrisIttiains
                                                                             the land
                                                                             monarch

who is reported to have changed his title from King

to Priest ; its regions give birth to the fertilising sources
of the mighty Nile; and it is a country abounding in

mythical traditions, which naturally create a romantic

ittnehteeenrtpehsetriocidennotitufsrwyh--hisictthhoeryweAbboaytrhsesiwpnariaistntinsagn--wd enrpaermeseCelyhn,tr.istthiaeDnunsriinneign

more than name, for they were thoroughly imbued with

everything appertaining to Christianity, and especially to

monastic legends and chronicles. From their exclusive-

ness and long isolation from what we regard as the civil

ised world, and owing to the anarchy that invariably

prevailed throughout the country, their rulers became

avaricious, cruel, and turbulent. It was the exercise

of these barbarisms that brought them into conflict

with us.

The trouble originated, apparently, in the neglect

of England to acknowledge a letter written by King

Theodore, containing a proposal by His Majesty to send

an Ambassador to London. It was an important and
at the same time a very proper letter. For some reason

best known to our Government, the King's proposal

does not appear to have been considered; at any rate
no notice was taken of it, and its receipt was not even

acknowledged. Theodore, as may well be imagined,

was furious at this neglect, which he could only regard

as a studied insult. That his letter, suggesting a closer

relationship between the two countries, should be

treated with contemptuous silence was not only a

breach of good manners, but in his opinion was a public

indignity which he did not merit. He had no intention

of submitting meekly to what he regarded as the in

solent behaviour of the British Government. Accord
ch. x1n]  THE ABYSSINIAN WAR  209

ingly he seized our Consul, Captain Cameron, with all
his suite, imprisoned them in chains, and went so far
as to inflict torture upon them. These were strong
measures for a ruling Sovereign to take in respect of
the representative of a friendly Power, but it appeared
to the King to be the only course open to him, and,
unfortunately for himself, he adopted it. These arbi
trary proceedings, however, were not taken until the
beginning of 1864, when more than twelve months had
elapsed since the despatch of the King's missive.

   King Theodore's action caused a great sensation in
England. Though somewhat late in the day, it was

decided to send a pacific reply to the King's letter
forthwith, signed by the Queen, but at the same time
remonstrating against his arbitrary action in confining

our Consul, and demanding Captain Cameron's im
mediate release. This was entrusted to a Special Envoy,
Mr. Rassam (well known in connection with the Nineveh
discoveries of Mr. Layard), who was selected for this
delicate duty, mainly in consequence of his knowledge
of Arabic and his experience with the natives. He was
accompanied by Dr. Blanc and Lieutenant Prideaux,
R.E., who had recently been serving as Political Agent

at Aden.

   The only effect that the arrival of this mission had
on King Theodore was to cause him to seize the members

of it and send them to join the Consul, the English
missionaries, and the others in captivity ! Theodore's

mind was made up : he resolved to uphold and justify his

action by the arbitrament of the sword. It was a brave

decision, but doubtless he considered himself secure

in his mountain fastnesses, where he thought the long
arm of England could not possibly reach him. Un
fortunately, there can be no shadow of a doubt that the
principal, if not the sole, cause of Theodore's original

action towards our representatives, and the unheard-
of treatment to which they were subjected, was the
extraordinary and unpardonable omission of our Govern
210  THE ABYSSINIAN WAR  [cH.x1n

ment to reply to the King's letter. Had a courteous
answer been returned, there would have been no necessity
for the subsequent punitive expedition, and its attendant
expenditure of several millions of money. However,
it was now too late, and the only possible course to secure
the release of our countrymen, and to avenge the insult
that had been offered to our flag, was the despatch of

an expeditionary force.
   The intelligence of the new outrage was received in

England during the autumn of 1866, but owing to the
vacillation of the Government many months elapsed
before energetic measures were taken for the despatch
of the expedition. They hoped to attain their object
by conciliatory means, and were much averse to plunging

the country into war if it could possibly be avoided.
All efforts for liberating the captives having failed, in

spite of the persistent exertions of Colonel Merewether,
our Political Resident at Aden, whose services were
invaluable, a letter was despatched to King Theodore
in April, 1867, and this was supported by presents of

the value of £3,500. It demanded the immediate and

unconditional release of the captives, and, in case of
refusal, prompt and decisive action, he was informed,
would be taken to enforce compliance.

   Preparations for the despatch of a strong mobile force

were immediately commenced, but it was not until July,

1867, that a final decision was arrived at. General
Sir Robert Napier, the Commander-in-Chief of the
Bombay Army, was appointed to the supreme command,
and Clements Markham was selected to accompany him

as geographer to the expedition. He was to be em
ployed on the headquarters staff to superintend the
general survey of the country, and to act with Colonel
Merewether in selecting the most convenient passes
through the mountainous districts over which the troops
would have to march on their way to Magdala. His

selection for these important duties was a very wise one.

He had already proved himself to be an experienced
ch.xn1]  THE ABYSSINIAN WAR  211

 geographer, practical as well as theoretical; his energy

 was boundless, his courage and endurance had been

thoroughly tested during his recent travels, and he was
 kind and sympathetic to natives; in short, he was a

practised campaigner. Needless to say, he was delighted
at having been chosen for such an important and
interesting service ; the only regret that he could possibly
entertain was that it would entail a prolonged separation
from his wife and daughter.

    The expeditionary force consisted altogether of 32,000

men. This figure included the troops transported from
England and India, the land transport, and the camp
followers, which latter are inseparable from a force
comprised largely of Indian soldiers. The actual fight
ing force was composed of 4,000 British and 10,000
Indian troops. The distance from the port of dis

embarkation to Magdala was about 400 miles, necessi
tating a long line of communications, which of course

had to be well protected. It was estimated that the

actual striking force on reaching Magdala would not
exceed four or five thousand rifles. This was con
sidered sufficient for the purpose, a decision fully

justified by the result. It was reported that Theodore

was at this time in command of an army numbering
40,000 fighting men, but although large in numbers it

was regarded as a somewhat undisciplined rabble.

   It was arranged that Colonel Merewether should be

placed in command of a small advanced detachment
consisting of about two or three thousand Indian
troops, with the object of selecting a convenient place
for the disembarkation of the main force. This accom

plished, he was ordered to explore the passes leading into
the interior and reconnoitre in advance of the main body.
This detached party sailed from Bombay on the 16th
of September, 1867, and anchored in Annesley Bay
off a small village called Mulketto, which had been
selected as being specially suitable for a base of opera

tions. Here piers were rapidly constructed, sea-walls
212  THE ABYSSINIAN WAR  [ch. xm

came suddenly into existence, and a tram-line was laid
for conveying the stores from the wharves to the camp.

   By the beginning of January, 1868, the entire force
had been disembarked. Sir Robert Napier now arrived
and assumed command. At this time the latest news
from the captives was that they were still alive, but

subjected to inconceivable cruelties and indignities.

Occasionally, as a change of treatment was considered

beneficial to their health, their hands were fettered
with short chains attached to their ankles, so that they

were unable either to stand erect or to lie down in a

recumbent position !
   The region that had to be traversed by the troops con

sisted of a series of mountains and plateaux at an average

elevation of 9,000 feet above sea-level. A number of

pools and a few springs furnished a scanty supply of
water ; but this fortunately increased in quantity as they

got farther from the coast, owing to the greater rainfall.

Animal life was plentiful along the line of march and on

the high land ; the large Egyptian goose abounded, and
many were shot. Lions and leopards were not met with,

but hyenas literally swarmed, making horrible noises
during the night. As a rule they are cowardly brutes,
but they have been known to attack a solitary human
being, first uttering their peculiar cry which it is believed
brings the pack to their assistance. Large flocks of
monkeys were occasionally seen, the males with immense
manes, the females carrying their young on their backs.
They would scamper across the road uttering dis
cordant cries. Markham was not only geographer to
the expedition, but also acted as naturalist. He made

numerous valuable notes on the physical geography and
the geology, as well as on the natural history, of the

regions through which they marched.

  It is not within the scope of this biography to give

a detailed account of the proceedings of the expedition,

except in so far as they relate to the personal experi
ences of Clements Markham ; nor is it the object of the
cH.xm]'  THE ABYSSINIAN WAR  213

writer to criticise the strategy that governed the move
ments of the force, even were he inclined to do so : his

object is simply to place before the reader, as briefly

as possible, the most important incidents relating to
the connection of Clements Markham with the campaign
that are likely to prove of interest.

   The most formidable, as it was also the most im

portant, work that demanded attention was the organi

sation of the transport. It was impossible to rely on

the country through which they passed to supply
them with provisions. Everything had to be carried
with them, and they were obliged to prepare, not only
for the advance to Magdala, but for the return journey
as well. Base camps for supplies of all sorts were

formed at Senafe, about forty-five miles from the
main camp at Annesley Bay, and at Adigrat, some
thirty-five miles farther on. The latter place was con
sidered of such importance that it was converted into
a strongly entrenched position. The carriage of the
artillery and ammunition was also a difficult problem;
but it was eventually overcome with the aid of an
enormous number of mules and a few elephants. The

delays, consequent upon these difficulties, kept the
advanced brigade inactive at Senafe for some time;
but it was time well spent, for it had the effect of

establishing a friendly feeling between the invaders
and the native inhabitants of the surrounding country.

   It was assumed that our advance on Magdala, a

distance of 400 miles, would be entirely through
hostile country. As a matter of fact, the reverse
was the case. The troops were received with open
arms by the inhabitants of the districts through which
they marched. The whole country had risen against
Theodore. His army of 40,000 men had dwindled,
by desertion and other causes, to less than a fourth
of that number; and this was due entirely to his
tyrannical behaviour. In addition to perpetrating the

most barbarous acts of cruelty and oppression, he had

                                                                                                               »5
214                   THE ABYSSINIAN WAR    [cn.xm

deliberately planned wholesale massacres. His whole

nature appears to have undergone a change ; for he had

become suspicious, proud, and intemperate.

But, although the country was in a state of insurrection

and the people antagonistic to the King, it would have

been a dangerous policy to trust too much to the good

will of the inhabitants for the supply of provisions and

other requirements for our troops. Hence the necessity

for the huge transport, which added so materially to

the difficulties of the advance. Strong working-parties

were daily occupied in the construction of roads, and

nothing was omitted that could be thought of to facili

tate the progress of the expedition. Everything went

well. The weather was perfect, the advance was un

opposed, and there was no hitch in the commissariat

arrangements. The natives, too, rendered great assist

ance, not only in the provision of food, but also in the

transport of stores and munitions. They were well

paid, and only too glad to be of use, so long as they

were remunerated for their labour.

The line of march was across plains and through

passes at an average altitude of about 8,000 feet. On

one occasion they reached a height of 10,500 feet above

the sea. Markham gives an excellent description of

"theHisctooruyntroyf  through which   they travelled, in the
                      the Abyssinian  Expedition," which he

published on his return to England. Even at the great

altitudes to which they ascended, the vegetation was

similar to that of the temperate zone. The scenery was

magnificent, and he makes interesting allusions to the

botany of the country, its general resources, and the

manners and customs of the people.

   On the 1st of February the pioneer force, consisting of

about 600 men, left Adigrat for Antalo. It was followed

at short intervals by the remainder of the attacking

column. No opposition was made to its progress. It
is true that, at first, supplies did not come in from the

country-people as quickly as was hoped; but when the
CH.XIH]      THE ABYSSINIAN WAR                                215

natives discovered that they were well paid for every

thing they brought into camp, there was no lack of

supply. Assistance was also obtained from some of

the chiefs who were in arms against King Theodore.

Time was of the utmost value, as it was essential that

the operations should be brought to a close before the

commencement of the rainy season.

"  In some places,            where the scenery  is described    as
   magnificent," the          marching was very  severe; but   the

beauty of their surroundings did much to lessen the

fatigue of the men, who, like true Englishmen, swore

gartantdheeurm. ou"ntTahiney  passes       while secretly enjoying their
one of the soldiers;                       this is a tableland," grumbled
                              t"elilf  us
                                           is, they have turned the table
                                       it

upside down, and we are scrambling up and down the

legs !" As the long column of troops with all its

necessary paraphernalia of transport passed along, the

inhabitants turned out with their priests, and sat by

the wayside to see the audacious strangers who were

going to attack the dreaded Theodore in his stronghold

at Magdala.

   On the 26th of March they reached the high altitude

of nearly 11,000 feet above sea-level, and here they

camped. The night was not passed in comfort. It was

intensely cold, and a heavy rainstorm burst upon them

with great fury, so that the camping-ground soon

became as muddy as a ploughed field. Thence they

descended into the valley of Takkazye, where the force

halted for some days to allow the brigade in the rear to

come up. It had taken them seventeen days to march

the last 120 miles, which gives an average of about

seven miles a day over very formidable ranges of

mountains. It was a severe experience for the majority

of the troops, hampered as they were with a vast and

ponderous transport, and they were deserving of much

credit for the excellent way in which it was accomplished.

   The neighbourhood of Magdala was at length reached,

and the preliminary military operations for its capture
216  THE ABYSSINIAN WAR  [ch.x1n

were begun. The region is described as being like the
interior of one of the Orkney Islands. There was an
entire absence of trees and bushes, except for some
clumps of juniper which were observed, usually in the
vicinity of the churches, where they appeared to thrive.
The hills were covered with grass. Wheat and barley

were cultivated in great quantities on the plateaux.
Magdala itself is an isolated flat-topped mountain,
the summit of which is about two miles in length and
half a mile in breadth, and it is about 9,000 feet above

sea-level. It was in this stronghold, on the summit of
this mountain, that the representatives of Great Britain

were detained in chains.

    The sight of Magdala was hailed with the keenest
delight by every member of the force. They were glad
that their long and tedious march was at an end, and
all were longing to get at close grips with Theodore.
The object for which they had endured so much fatigue

and so many privations was at last within their reach.
    By the 3 1st of March, 1 868, the whole of our attacking

force, numbering slightly over 4,000 officers and men, was
assembled on the Wadela plateau ready for the attack.
To resist this force, Theodore, it is surmised, had about

6,000 trained soldiers, besides a vast host of camp

followers, whose fighting qualities, however, although
armed, could not be relied on. In order to take up a
position favourable for assaulting the fortress, Sir Robert

Napier was obliged to march his force an additional
distance of about thirty-five miles. This occupied the
best part of three days. He then halted his troops for

five days on the Dalanta plateau, so as to rest the men,

to accumulate provisions, and to concentrate his force

for the attack. The last day's march was a very long
and fatiguing one, for it necessitated the crossing of a

formidable chasm, involving a steep descent and a

still steeper ascent on the other side. The camp was
pitched on a grassy plain in close proximity to water,
but it was long after midnight before the last of the
ch.x1n]        THE ABYSSINIAN WAR                    217

rearguard arrived. No attempt was made by Theodore

to oppose the occupation of the position selected.
   On the morning of the 10th of April the two forces

faced each other, the one ready and eager for the attack,
the other prepared to defend themselves to the death;

the former highly trained and disciplined, armed with

the latest inventions of modern science, and confident

in their success; the latter discouraged by the previous

harassing attacks of rebels, with a waning confidence

in their leader, and but little heart for the coming

contest.

The result of that day's fight is a matter of history.

How the Abyssinian Army, obedient to the command

of their King, rushed out from Magdala and impetuously

attacked the advancing English, and how they suffered

an overwhelming defeat, is well known; nor need we
dwell at much length upon the death of King Theodore,

who on witnessing the discomfiture of his army, with its

complete rout and dispersal, rather than surrender himself
to his enemies, put a pistol into his mouth, fired it, and

fell dead on the spot : Markham's doings alone concern us.

During the whole of that fateful day he was in attendance
on the Commander-in-Chief, and has given us a thrilling

description of the events which led to the death of
Theodore. He shall relate it in his own words:

" The King ran up the rocks and over the hedge to
the right of the second gate. As he reached the hedge, he

turned round behind a huge boulder, looking as if he
was in a pulpit, and threw up both arms as a gesture of
rage and defiance to the reef-coats who were swarming
up. By crossing the hedge at this point, Theodore
reached the plateau about a hundred yards from the
second gate. Here he dismissed all his followers except
his faithful body-servant, telling them to leave him
and save their own lives. The King then turned to his
servant, and said : ' Sooner than fall into their hands,
I will shoot               He   put a pistol         into his mouth,
               myself.'    the  Dhaelladp.assTinhge  in at the palate
fired it, and  fell dead,                            English soldiers
and out at the back of the
were then running up between the first and second gates,
218     THE ABYSSINIAN WAR                                 [ch. xm

some of them climbing over the second hedge. At the
same time Sir Charles Staveley* and I, followed by
several officers, came through the second gate. A man
ran up   to us, and said that a     doefadthbeoKdyingw.as  lying near,
which   they declared was that                             Sir Charles
called out: ' Bring him here dead or alive.' The body
was put into a hammock and brought to us, when it
was 1dentified by one of the captives, after looking at
the fingers, one of which had been broken. Mr. Rassam
soo"nTahfeterbocdamy ewuaps,        at once identified the remains.
                              and   of a man of medium stature,
                              that
well built, w1th broad chest, small waist, and muscular
limbs. The hair was much dishevelled, crisp, and
coarse, and done in three plaits with little, stumpy tails.
But it had evidently not been dressed or buttered for
days. The complexion was dark for an Abyssinian,
but the features showed no trace of negro blood. The
eyebrows had a peculiar curve downwards and over the
nose, and there was a deep-curved furrow in the centre
of the forehead. The nose was aquiline and finely cut,
with a low bridge, the lips very th1n and cruel, the face,
though thin, rather round than      o--vaonl e.  The once changeful
eyes had lost their meaning                       closed, the other
staring. The scanty beard and moustache contained
many grey hairs. Theodore was in his fiftieth year
and in the fifteenth of his reign."

   Markham sums up his character in the following
words :

   " Thus ended the career of the most remarkable
man that has arisen in Africa within the present century.
His misdeeds had been numerous, his cruelties horrible,
but he was not without great and noble qualities. He
was a grand, not a contemptible, tyrant. He feared no
man. His greatest and most powerful enemies were
not, as a rule, put to death when they fell into his hands.
His indomitable energy and perseverance, his military
skill and his dauntless courage, command respect, while
his cruelties are execrated. He preferred death to
lingering out a contemptible existence after his true
career was over, and he died like a hero."

   * Major-General Sir Charles Staveley, K.C.B., 2nd in command
of the Expeditionary Force.
ch.xh1]  THE ABYSSINIAN WAR  219

   Thus was Magdala taken. The objects of the expedi
tion had been attained, the King was dead, and the
captives (for whose release King Theodore had given
orders before committing suicide) were rescued. The
recovered European captives alone numbered sixty-
seven, of whom some had been in captivity for more

than four years.
   These things accomplished, it would seem that

nothing now remained but to march the force back
again to Annesley Bay, re-embark the troops, and send
them back to their several destinations. But the death

of Theodore and the destruction of his power entailed
grave responsibilities on his conquerors. At Magdala
people had congregated from all parts of Abyssinia to
be near their great King ; and it was necessary to make
arrangements for the safe-conduct of this vast unarmed

multitude through an unsettled (if not actually hostile)
country. Provision also had to be made for the family
of King Theodore, for his chiefs, his political prisoners,
his soldiers (now disarmed), their families, and the
widows and orphans of those who were killed in the
attack. The disposal of the guns and plunder had also
to be attended to. All these things had to be considered

and dealt with. Sir Robert Napier's lot was not an envi
able one : it required time, investigation, and patience,
to deal satisfactorily with all these knotty points.

   The body of the King, at the express wish of the Queen,
was quietly interred in Magdala by Abyssinian priests.

Very few attended the ceremony, though all the chiefs
had received invitations to be present. The remains

were carried into the church on an old bedstead, the

priests muttered a few prayers, and the body was
lowered into the grave without further ceremony. The
Queen (who was only twenty-six years of age) with her

little boy had taken refuge in the hut in which Mr.

Rassam had been imprisoned. She was anxious to
return to her native country of Semyen, of which her

father was hereditary chief, and said that her husband's
220  THE ABYSSINIAN WAR  [ch. xnr

last wish was that her son should be taken charge of

by the English. It was arranged that she and her son

should accompany the expedition so long as their
roads led in the same direction. But, alas ! the poor

young Queen did not survive her husband many days.
She was taken ill shortly after leaving Magdala, and died
before they reached Antalo. Her son, who was about
ten years of age, was brought to England, in accordance
with the earnest wish of his father, and was educated

under the auspices of the English Government.
   The royal household disposed of, the numerous

chiefs had then to be settled with. The best and bravest

had already fallen in their first furious onslaught on
our troops, and the survivors wished to transfer their
allegiance to the Queen of England. This, of course,
could not be considered without the annexation of
Abyssinia. So they were told to return quietly to their
homes and avoid meddling in politics. Many of them
were given arms with which to defend themselves on
their journey, and mules to assist in carrying their
baggage. The political prisoners were released from
their fetters and allowed to return to their homes.

   Sir Robert Napier decided to burn Magdala, to blow

up the principal gates of the fortress, and to destroy
the guns. The inhabitants, estimated to be about

30,000 in number, were allowed to proceed to their
native provinces, the majority being escorted by British
troops. This protection was absolutely necessary in
order to defend them from the gangs of ruthless native
robbers that infested the country and murdered all
stragglers they could lay their hands on. The camp

of these people presented an interesting sight. It

consisted of hundreds of black tents pitched in no
regular order, covering two hills and the intervening

valley. At night time, when lit up by thousands of
lights, it had the appearance of a large city. In wander

ing through the tortuous lanes between these tents,

Markham thus expresses himself :
ch.x1n]  THE ABYSSINIAN WAR  221

   " We came upon many forms of human misery -- men
in cruel pain with undressed wounds, helpless old people
stripped by robbers on the road and exhausted by the
fatigues of the march, children crying for food, their
mothers with no means of satisfying their hunger.
Many were gently nurtured ladies, wives and daughters
of chiefs, women who had been made widows and orphans
by the fell slaughter of the 10th of April. They had
never known what it was to want, but now the poor
things were eager to sell their personal ornaments,
their sacred pictures and books, all their most cherished

                  for the means of buying bread. In the

goEsnsgelissshiocnas,mp there was no misery save such as was
caused by rather tough beef and the absence of grog."

   Such are the fortunes of war !
   On the 1 7th of April, Magdala was burnt to the ground
(together with the church in which the remains of King

Theodore had been so recently deposited), the gates
were blown up, and the guns destroyed. On the
previous day the liberated captives with a sufficient
escort had begun their march to the coast, and two days
later they were followed by the whole expeditionary
force. The troops marched in three divisions at short
intervals. The road had not been neglected by those

who had been guarding the line of communications, so
the travelling was a good deal easier than it had been

on the outward march. Consequently, longer and less
fatiguing daily marches were the rule. The return to
Mulketto was effected without any noteworthy incident.
The last division arrived at the end of May, the embarka

tion of the troops was speedily effected, and by the first
week in June the majority of the force had departed
from Annesley Bay. The Commander-in-Chief with
his staff reached Suez, on his way to England, on the
1 8th of June, and by the end of the month the last

man had departed from Annesley Bay.
   Thus ended the Abyssinian War. Doubtless from

our standpoint it may be regarded with unmixed

satisfaction. It was undertaken in the cause of
222  THE ABYSSINIAN WAR  [ch. x1n

humanity, to uphold the honour of our flag and dignity
of our country, and to punish a truculent and tyrannical
ruler, and in all these it was eminently successful. Yet
there was much to admire in the character of Theodore,
as Markham shows. With limited powers, and some
restraint to bridle his evil passions, his strength of mind

and determination were such as might have enabled
him to secure lasting good for his country.

   With the exception of the loss of life consequent on
the assault and capture of Magdala, the inhabitants
of the country gained rather than suffered by the presence
of the expeditionary force. In addition to the trade
which they drove with it in the matter of daily supplies,

they heartily welcomed the arrival of the foreigners
who had marched so far into the interior of their country

to rid them of the tyranny of the upstart Theodore.
There can be little doubt that the people of Abyssinia
entertained at that time a kindly feeling for our soldiers,

and heartily regretted their departure.
   Sir Robert Napier was created a peer on his return,

was decorated with the Grand Cross of the Order of
the Bath, and was awarded a handsome pension for

life. Honours and rewards were lavished on those who
served under him. Markham received the war medal,

and on the 17th of May, 1871, he was created a Com
panion of the Bath for services rendered in this campaign,
as well as for his great work in India. Never was a

distinction more deservedly earned and conferred.
                      CHAPTER XIV

     GEOGRAPHY AND ARCTIC EXPLORATION

After the strenuous and exciting life he had been

experiencing in Abyssinia, it is perhaps not unreason

able to suppose that Clements Markham would apply

for leave of absence. He needed a complete rest, both

mentally and physically. But such a proceeding was
contrary to his nature. Work was the all-absorbing

element of his life. Without work, and work of an

interesting character, he would have been miserable.
On his return to England, his greetings with his family

and relations over, he at once resumed his duties at

the  India   Office,  devoting the evenings    a"ndHismtuocryh  of
his  spare  time to    the compilation of his                   of

the Abyssinian War." This was published in 1869,
a few months only after his arrival in England. It is

a very complete account of the campaign; not only

relating every important incident that occurred, bat

giving a fascinating description of the country, with

its history from remote times to the present day.

Though denouncing the tyranny and cruel despotism
of King Theodore, he could not help but admire many

of the sterling qualities possessed by that monarch,

especially his heroism and the broad views he maintained

regarding the development of his country and the in

creased prosperity of his subjects. But, in spite of

the good in his nature, he certainly possessed many

vicious qualities which the more noble side of his char

acter failed to redeem.

In the following year (1870) Markham brought out his

                         223
224 GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION [ch. x1v

" Life of the Great Lord Fairfax." This was a detailed
account, in a connected narrative, of all those important

events in the General's career which hitherto had been

either completely disregarded, or misunderstood and

misrepresented. It was with the laudable object of

doing full justice to the memory of this great man that
Markham undertook a labour involving infinite trouble
and research. He shows that the battles, marches,
and sieges of various important towns in Yorkshire,
carried out by the General, had a direct and important
influence on the main result of the Civil War.

    Markham 's connection with the Geographical Society

also provided him with plenty of employment. It was

work in which he took a great interest, for he had

always possessed a natural predilection for the science
of geography. In the excellent obituary notice of Sir
Clements that appeared in the Geographical Journal for
April, 1916, Dr. Keltie, who was Secretary of the Royal
Geographical Society at that time, alludes especially to
his pleasant and intimate association with the officers
of the Society during his long tenure of office as
Honorary Secretary. This period Dr. Keltie regarded
as a very important epoch in the history, not only of
the Society, but in that of geography generally. When
the position of Assistant Secretary became vacant, it
was Markham who selected Mr. H. W. Bates, the
talented South American traveller and naturalist, for
the appointment--undoubtedly a wise and excellent

selection.

   During Markham 's secretaryship the exploration of
the Dark Continent was pressed with much vigour
and success; and no one was more active in en

couraging those great pioneers of African exploration,
and assisting them in every possible way so far as the
resources of the Society would admit, than the Secretary

himself. A reference to the old publications of the

Society will show the enormous amount of geographical
work that was accomplished by explorers generally,
ch.x1v] GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION 225

either under the auspices, or at any rate with the

sympathy and encouragement, of the Society during

the long period (over  forty years) of Markham's  official
connection with it.                               due to
                       It was in a great measure

his initiative that schools of geography were founded,
and placed on a solid foundation, at the Universities
of Oxford and Cambridge. In tha success of these

schools he took the deepest interest, and served at
various times on the Geographical Boards of both

Universities.

The internal administration of the Society naturally

occupied much of his thought and time, and he was

especially active in regard to the library and map

collections. Dr. Keltie writes :

" Another and a very important department, the
growth and success of which was largely due to Mark-

ham's zeal, is that for instruction of surveying, which
before the war broke out had grown to almost embarrass
ing dimensions. During the many years that this
department has been at work, a             large number of
men, military officers, travellers,  very  colonial officials,
                                     and
have been sent out with a practical knowledge of survey
ing, many of them having taken the Society's diploma
testifying to the holder's qualifications as trained
surveyors."

  It is pleasing to be able to add the testimony of such

an old and valued official of the Society as Dr. Keltie

(who was its Secretary during the whole period of
Markham's presidency) as to the excellent work in
augurated by Clements Markham during his tenure of

office. Perhaps there is no one in a better position to
judge of the value and importance of Markham's work
for the Geographical Society.

That the Society largely increased in popularity and

in strength since his official connection with it goes
without saying. He lived to see its membership grow

from about a thousand to more than five times that

number.
   From almost the first days of his official association
226 GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION [ch. x1v

with the Society, he had established a strong belief in
his mind regarding the necessity for the continuance of
Arctic research. He was obsessed with the value of

exploration in high northern latitudes, and lost no

opportunity in his public addresses, and writings, of

urging the despatch of an expedition, directly under the

auspices of the Admiralty, to explore the unknown

regions in the North Polar area. His object was of a

twofold nature. Geographical knowledge was, of course,

the primary consideration; but he held that service in

the ice-covered seas of the Polar Regions was an excellent

school for officers and men of the Royal Navy during

the piping times of peace. It is a service that calls

for courage, endurance, constant vigilance, determin

ation, and prompt action. All these qualities, he averred ,

were developed by the handling of ships amid heavy

icefloes, and by sledge-travelling in unexplored regions.
For these important reasons he advocated the work

being undertaken by officers and men of the Royal
Navy, acting under the orders of the Admiralty.

   He  was  always most emphatic  sitnigmhias tivsieewsasreg" asrednintgi
what    he  was accustomed to

mental and popular exploration," such as a rush to the

fNoorrtshuchPol"e   or the search for a North-West Passage;
                   discoveries," he maintained, would be of

no substantial or commercial value or utility. What he

desired, and so strenuously advocated, was the correct

mapping of every portion of the world, known or un
known, in the interests of geography generally. In

these views he was warmly supported by such Arctic
authorities as that splendid old veteran Sir George
Back, and his intimate friends Sherard Osborn and

Leopold M'Clintock.
But his geographical work, great as it was, did not
absorb the whole of his time and attention. He could
still afford to employ his energies in other directions. As

far back as 1858 he had been elected a member of the
Hakluyt Society, which had been called into existence
ch. x1v] GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION 227

some twelve years before, with the laudable object of

printing English editions of rare and remarkable works

on geography, travels, and history, from as early a period

as possible anterior to the time of Dampier's circum

navigation of the world. It was named after Richard

Hakluyt, an English clergyman who made a wonderful

collection of travels and voyages which   he     poufbl"ishTehde
in 1589 in three folio volumes under the
                                          title

Principall Navigations, Voiages, and Discoveries of the
English Nation." He was born about the year 1552,

and died in London on the 23rd of November, 161 6.
   Into the projects of this new Society, Markham, with

his characteristic impulsiveness, threw himself heart

and soul. He accepted the secretaryship, which was

offered to him almost as soon as he became a member,

and it is not too much to say that no one has done

more to contribute to the success and prosperity of

that Society than Clements Markham. He was in

dividually responsible for the editing of twenty-nine

volumes in its series of publications, twenty-two of these

being  translations by him from the Spanish.  waTshe"  first
work   which he brought out for the Society
                                                       Ex

peditions in the Valley of the Amazons." This was in

1859, when he had been a member only a few months.

He continued to act as Secretary for about thirty con

secutive years, and was President for nearly twenty.

The Society has done much excellent work in the pro

duction of many interesting and important voyages

and travels, which otherwise would have remained

buried in obscurity ; and its great success is due mainly

to the inspiring influence which Markham exercised over

others, and to the great personal interest he took in the

welfare of the Society. He was actually engaged in

preparing a couple of volumes for publication at the

time of his death.

On the fiftieth anniversary of the foundation of the

Society (December 15th, 1896) Sir Clements Markham,
being then its President (and, we believe, the oldest
228 GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION [ch. x1v

living member of the Society at the time), delivered an

itnhtaetretshtiengSocaidedtyreshsa, din"  the course of which   he remarked
                                           been doing steady   work for half

a century without much stir, without attracting any

large share of attention, but diligently, usefully, and

successfully."
In 1861 be became a Fellow of the Society of Anti

quaries, and served on its Council for many years. We

must not omit to record, also, that on his return from

the cinchona expedition he was            honoured by being
elected a member of the Athenaeum
                                          Club under Rule II.,
without ballot. In 1867 he received the Grand Prix
of the Paris Exhibition of that year; and in 1873 he
was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society. The follow
ing year he was created a Commendador of the Portu
guese Order of Christ, and a Chevalier of the Order of

the Rose of Brazil ; he was also made a member of the

Imperial Academy of Germany (Natura Curiosorum),
and of the Royal Society of Gottingen. Thus were his

services to mankind recognised by foreign nations as well

as by his own country.

After a period of nearly ten years, during which

Markham had persistently pleaded the desirability

of despatching a Naval Arctic Expedition to explore

the unknown regions, and to continue the work that

had already been accomplished in that direction, his

labours were rewarded with complete success. The

Royal Geographical Society, under the presidency of
Sir Henry Rawlinson, strongly advocated the promotion

of the scheme, and papers were read at that Society by

Admiral Sherard Osborn, Clements Markham, and others,

urging the necessity of acquiring further knowledge of

the North Polar area. These views were unanimously

supported by the Press. The Geographical Society

appointed a committee to confer as to the best route

for an expedition to take, and to discuss the probability

of the results that might fairly be anticipated from the

adoption of such a course.
ch. x1v] GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION 229

   The proposed enterprise having now attained such
importance in the eyes of the public, it was resolved to
approach the Government on the subject, and it was
arranged that a deputation, headed by the President
of the Geographical Society, should request an interview
with those Ministers who would be primarily responsible
for all the details connected with the despatch of such
an expedition. These would be the Chancellor of the
Exchequer, who would be liable for the financial arrange
ments, and the First Lord of the Admiralty, who would
be responsible for the personnel and all the necessary
details regarding ships, equipment, and route. This
request was acceded to, and in December, 1872, Sir
Henry Rawlinson, accompanied by Admiral Sherard
Osborn, Clements Markham, and a large deputation

representing the Geographical Society, naval officers
(especially those who had served in the Arctic Regions),
eminent men of science whose particular branches would
be benefited by North Polar research, and others
interested in geographical discovery, were received by
Mr. Lowe and Mr. Goschen at the Admiralty. After
the subject had been introduced in general terms,
Admiral Osborn entered into the details regarding the
ships and number of men that would be required, the
amount of provisions that would be necessary, the
estimated cost, and other matters relevant to the
subject. The Ministers listened attentively, asked

several questions relative to the points raised, and
appeared sympathetic. The deputation expressed their
thanks for the reception and withdrew.

    The reply came in a fortnight's time, but, alas ! it

 was unsatisfactory.
    Sherard Osborn succeeded in ascertaining that the

 refusal was based on the alleged difficulties and dangers
 of ice navigation. His active mind at once set to work
 to overcome the opinions thus formed, and to prove to
 the authorities, in a practical manner, how, by the use
 of steam in ships navigating ice-covered seas, these

                                                                                                                   16
 230 GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION [ch. x1v

 supposed difficulties and dangers had been very materi
 ally minimized , and that some of them no longer existed .
 In order to demonstrate his views in a practical and
 convincing way, he arranged for a naval officer to embark
 in one of the Dundee whalers and proceed to Baffin's
 Bay and Davis Straits during the summer months,
 returning with a detailed report of his experiences.
 For this important service he selected a young Com
 mander in the Royal Navy who had always taken the
 keenest interest in the renewal of Polar exploration,
 and had always been an ardent and persistent volunteer
 for Arctic service.

    Meanwhile a joint committee of the Royal Geo
graphical and Royal Societies had been formed with
the object of drawing up an exhaustive memorandum on
the scientific results that would undoubtedly accrue
from the despatch of an Arctic expedition. Out of

the eight members representing the Geographical Society,
six were Admirals who had all seen service in the Arctic
Regions, the seventh was Clements Markham, and the

eighth a civilian. The Royal Society was represented
by eight of the leading scientists of the day, including
the Presidents of several of the learned Societies.

   The report presented by the naval officer on his return,
fully corroborated Osborn's view, and justified his

action. It demonstrated very clearly the enormous

advantages possessed by steamers specially constructed
for ice navigation over the old sailing vessels hitherto
employed in Arctic exploration, and the corresponding
elimination of danger by the introduction of steam as
a motive power. Fortified by this report, together
with the arguments submitted by the joint committee,
the Presidents of the two Societies, accompanied by
Admiral Sherard Osborn, interviewed the Prime Minister
(Mr. Disraeli) on the 1st of August, 1874. The result
was most satisfactory. Realising the importance of
England taking the lead in Arctic exploration, the
Premier gave them an encouraging view of the
ch.x1v] GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION 231

Government's attitude towards Arctic research. How
ever, it appears to have taken some little time for the
authorities to arrive at a favourable decision, for it was

not until the following 17th of November that the
Prime Minister addressed a letter to Sir Henry Rawlin-

son, as President of the Geographical Society, announcing

the fact that Her Majesty's Government had resolved
to lose no time in organising a suitable expedition for the
purpose of exploration in the region of the North Pole.*
Markham was delighted that his exertions, extending

over so many years, should at last be crowned with

success, and he began immediately to interest himself
in working out all the details connected with the equip
ment of men and material necessary for the expedition.

    The Admiralty very wisely appointed a committee
consisting of three naval officers (Admirals Richards,
Sir Leopold M'Clintock, and Sherard Osborn), all pos
sessing great Arctic experience, to settle the details

regarding the choice of ships, the stores and provisions
to be provided, and all those multifarious arrangements
essential for the equipment of such an enterprise.
Captain Nares, himself an old Arctic explorer, who was
in the Resolute in 1852-54, engaged in the search for Sir
John Franklin, was specially selected to command the
expedition, and he was ordered home from Hong-Kong,
where he was in command of H.M.S. Challenger, engaged
in a scientific voyage round the world.

   The ships selected for the expedition were the Alert and
Discovery. They were to be fitted out at Portsmouth
under the immediate superintendence of Sir Leopold
M'Clintock, who was at the time the Admiral Superin
tendent of the Dockyard at that port. Officers and men

were specially selected and appointed to the two ships.
   Prior to its departure, the expedition sustained a great

* This reference to the North Pole did not at all harmonise with

t"heHivgihewNs oorfthCelernmenLtastitMuadreksha"mo, r  w"AhorctwicoulRdeggiolandsly"  have  substituted
                                                                                       for  the lant six

words in the sentence.
232 GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION [ch. xrv

loss in the sudden death of one of its earliest promoters,
and stanchest supporters, Admiral Sherard Osborn. He
died quite suddenly on the 6th of May, after a busy
day in London. The funeral took place on the 1oth,
at which, it is needless to say, the expedition was well
represented. To Markham the death of his friend was
a very serious blow. He had known him ever since
his midshipman days in the old Collingwood, when he
had learnt to regard him as a true friend. Service
together in the search for Sir John Franklin in 1850-51
had renewed and cemented that friendship; while their
co-operation to obtain the despatch of the expedition
in 1875 served to illustrate the indissolubility of their
attachment to each other. Without his wise advice
and vigorous assistance, it is probable that Markham 's
exertions to secure the despatch of the expedition would
not have succeeded until a later period. He was con
stantly at Portsmouth during the time the ships were
fitting out. His bright and cheery smile and encouraging
words will long be remembered, not only by officers and

men of the Alert and Discovery, but by all who had en
joyed the pleasure of serving with him. His loss could
only be regarded as a great calamity, not only to the
expedition, but also to the Navy which could ill afford

to lose so talented and experienced an officer.

   By the end of May the ships were ready to start.
Everything had worked smoothly, and under the
superintendence of Sir Leopold M 'Clintock every device
for the comfort and welfare of the members of the ex
pedition, that could be thought of, had been carefully
considered and adopted. When the day of departure
drew near, the officers of the Alert invited Markham to
accompany the expedition as far as Greenland as their
guest. They felt that one who had done so much to
promote the despatch of the expedition, who had taken
such a keen and lively interest in its equipment, and had
contributed so largely to its prospects of success, ought
to remain with it until the last moment. There was no
ch.x1v] GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION 233

hesitation on Markham's part to avail himself of this

privilege, and he cordially accepted the invitation; but

he knew very well that, although his welcome would be

a warm one, his accommodation on board would not

be conducive to comfort. It had been arranged that

H.M.S. Valorous, an old paddle-wheel sloop, should

accompany the expedition as far as Godhavn in Green

land, to complete the two ships with coal and stores,

and thus the return of Markham to England would be

assured.

As he had anticipated, his accommodation on board
was not very palatial or cheerful. It consisted of a

swinging cot in a space outside the wardroom, of about

S feet square, which had been specially screened off
for him. When there was much motion (which was
practically the normal state of affairs during the whole

voyage), the cot had to be taken down, for with every

roll of the ship it swung violently from side to side,

thus taking complete charge of the entire space that

had been allotted to him. Of course, the wardroom,

the Captain's cabin, and every single cabin in the ship,

was at his disposal whenever he liked to make use of

them, which he frequently did ; but for sleeping and

dressing he always used his own particular niche.

   Prior to    the departure of   fethmealeshifprise,ndtshe--sfreinent dtshemof
the officers
              --especially their

plum puddings of various dimensions to be eaten on

Christmas Day. The greater part of these delicacies,

wrapped in their cloths, were, for want of a better

place, hung   up to    the hammock hooks in  the   beams
immediately   over   Markham's " bed." As    the   height

between-decks was only about 6 feet, it not infrequently

happened that Markham's head, when he was standing

in his bath, came into contact with a plum pudding,

which in consequence would become detached from the

hook and fall into the bath. But when Christmas

Day arrived, the number of puddings did not appear

to have diminished, in spite of their immersions.
234 GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION [ch. xtv

   The ships left England on the 29th of May, 1875.
The passage across the Atlantic was much hindered

by bad weather. Gale succeeded gale, and on more
                                                     to "he
ttoha"n   one occasion the vessels were compelled
         under very reduced canvas. During one       of these

gales, not only was a boat washed away from each of

the exploring ships, but all the fowls in the hen-coops

were drowned by the heavy seas that broke on board.

The manner of their death, however, did not in any way

prevent their appearance for several days on the ward

room table at dinner ! In these violent gales the Alert

laboured very heavily, causing her seams to open, and

she began to leak a great deal. This occurred especially

in the small space appropriated to Markham, who,

however, treated these discomforts in a most philo

sophical manner. He was supremely happy, and would
have endured any discomfort, however disagreeable it
might be, so that he could have the happiness of

accompanying the expedition even for a short time. He

was an immense favourite with everyone on board,
always ready to impart information, never tired of

giving advice and assistance, especially in connection
with Arctic matters, so that he was regarded as a most

delightful and valuable acquisition to the wardroom

mess.    Aa s"  one of his   messmates very   truly  remarked,
he was          peripatetic  encyclopaedia."

Of course, it was not long before he made the ac

quaintance of every man in the ship, no matter what his

rank or rating. So long as he belonged to the expedition,

that was sufficient for Markham, and he soon had a

complete history of every soul on board: where they

had served, where they lived, whether married, and, if
so, the extent of their families, their religion --in fact,

everything that concerned them. He entered so sym

pathetically into every little incident connected with

their lives, that they soon confided to him all their

woes and all their troubles, just as they would do to a

father or a brother. Sailors love to be taken notice of,
ch. x1v] GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION 235

so that he soon became as great a favourite with the crew
as he was with the officers.

   So boisterous was the weather, that for ten consecutive
days it was impossible to bake any bread or to cook
at the officers' galley; so they had to be content with
the prescribed rations of beef and pork as cooked in
the ship's galley. One day, in consequence of an un
usually heavy lurch of the ship, Markham had a nasty
fall, causing very severe bruises. Fortunately, no

bones were broken, though he was much shaken and
very sore for some days; but he made light of the

incident,- and, as the seas subsided, was soon able to
indulge in his customary walks on deck again.

   Having passed the latitude of Cape Farewell, the
most southern point of Greenland, they encountered
their first ice on the 28th of June, just a month after
their departure from Portsmouth. Soon after, they
sighted the high snow-capped hills in the neighbourhood
of Cape Desolation, so named by that sturdy old navi
gator, John Davis, in 1587, who writes:

   " The lothsome viewe of the shore and irksome noyse
of the yce was such as that it bred strange conceipts
among us, so that we supposed the place to be wast
and voyd of any sencible or vegitable creatures, where
upon I called the same Desolat1on."

   On the 4th of July they crossed the Arctic Circle,

and, working up along the coast of Greenland, enjoyed

to their hearts' content the magnificent scenery charac
teristic of that sterile and barren continent. Here were
to be seen mountains rising to the height of 3,000 feet,
so steep and pointed as scarcely to admit of the snow
resting on their summits, while the line of coast was
intersected by grand fiords penetrating as far as could

be seen into the interior. A bold and inhospitable-
looking coast. To seaward they saw many huge

icebergs of every imaginable size and form, while
occasionally the ship would have to be carefully navi
gated through streams of loose ice.
236 GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION [ch. x1v

Godhavn, in the island of Disco, was reached on the
6th of July, after an unusually protracted passage

across the Atlantic of thirty-four days. Here the

exploring ships filled up with coal, provisions, and stores

from the Valorous, while Markham thoroughly enjoyed
himself, joining in every expedition that was arranged for

the exploration of the neighbouring country. Whether
it was the ascent of a lofty hill whence a good view

could be obtained of the movements and condition of
the pack-ice, or whether it was to join parties in walks

along the shore or in boating expeditions to various

prominent headlands along the coast, it was all one to

him. Everybody wanted to have him with them,

no expedition could be considered complete without

him; and his company was as much in request by the
Captains and officers of the other ships as it was by
the officers of the Alert, who were selfish enough to wish

to keep him as much to themselves as possible. A race

in cutters had been arranged between ten officers of the

Alert and a corresponding number of officers belonging

to the Discovery. Every day, and sometimes twice a

day, they  were  sent away    to be trained,  an" dcooafchco"ursoef
Markham    was   selected as   coxswain and

the Alert's boat's crew. No one entered more into the

spirit and enjoyment of the match than he did, but,

after many days' training the event fell through, in

consequence of the two crews being unable to arrive

at a satisfactory agreement regarding the length and

direction of the course !

  The ships left Godhavn on the 15th of July, and on

the following day reached the little Danish settlement

of Ritenbenk, which is situated on the southern side of
the island of Disco. Here Markham took leave of his

friends, which comprised every soul in the expedition.
They knew very well that it was entirely due to Mark-

ham's persistent advocacy that the expedition had been

brought  into existence.   Sitnoce"  he   had been with them
he had   endeared himself                 hands," and it was
                                     all
ch. x1v] GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION 237

with a sad and sorrowful heart he bade them all farewell.
He remained until the last moment on board the Alert,
when, after drinking a parting glass of champagne
with the officers in the wardroom, he was pulled on board
the Valorous in a whaleboat manned by the Com
mander and the four Lieutenants of the Alert, receiving

three hearty cheers, as he left, from the crew, who had
manned the fore rigging. The following entry appears in
his journal :

   " I never had a happier cruise, and the interest 1

always took in the exped1tion is now increased by a warm

feeling of personal friendship for my messmates. A

nobler set of fellows never sa1led together."

    His departure was the severance of the last link that

connected the expedition with home. It was midnight

when he left the Alert, and shortly afterwards the
Valorous got under way and proceeded to a somewhat
open anchorage on the Disco side of the Waigat Strait
(the narrow channel separating the island of Disco
from the mainland of Greenland). She was in close
proximity to a coal-bearing seam in the cliffs, from which
the ship was to take sufficient coal for her voyage
back to England. This anchorage was a very exposed
one, and necessitated a constant and vigilant watch
on the part of those on board, so as to be ready at a

moment's notice to evade the numerous icebergs, some
of gigantic dimensions, as they drifted past. On
occasions it was necessary for the ship to slip her cable

in order to elude them. In consequence steam had to

be available at a moment's notice, so the fires had always
to be kept going and steam up for an immediate move.
Streams of heavy ice were constantly drifting past, and

these had to be avoided. It was a great error in judg

ment on the part of the Admiralty to despatch a paddle-
wheel steamer into ice-encumbered waters.

    Markham was now the guest of Captain Loftus Jones,
commanding the Valorous, who was in a position to
offer him rather more comfortable accommodation than
a38 GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION [ch. x1v

he had enjoyed (?) on board the Alert. But in spite
of the great kindness and hospitality which Captain
Jones went out of his way to show him, Markham missed
his good friends of the Alert, and would willingly have

exchanged his comfortable quarters in the Valorous
for the old screened niche, with its array of plum
puddings, in the Alert !

   After filling up with coal at Ritenbenk, Captain
Jones, in pursuance of instructions from the Admiralty,
proceeded to carry out deep-sea soundings and dredgings
on a line of some 200 miles in a southerly direction,
between the south end of the island of Disco and the
latitude of Holsteinborg. With this object in view, the
ship, before leaving England, had been specially pro
vided with the necessary apparatus; and Mr. Gwyn
Jeffreys and his assistant, Mr. H. Carpenter, had been
attached to the Valorous for the purpose of super
intending and examining the results of the dredging

operations.

   On the 27th of July, while engaged in this work of

dredging, the Valorous struck an uncharted sunken reef
of rocks in the immediate neighbourhood of Holstein

borg, and remained fast. Fortunately, her speed was
not very great at the time (only about four knots), but
as the tide rose she commenced bumping heavily. As

the Captain was not quite certain regarding his position,
and no rock was marked on the chart by which he might
be guided, he despatched one of his boats, under the
command of a Lieutenant, with instructions to make his
way to Holsteinborg, obtain the services of a pilot,
and give notice of the accident. Markham at once

volunteered to accompany the officer, and, as he spoke
Danish, his services were gladly accepted. So imminent
was the prospect of the loss of the ship, that Markham
before leaving stuffed his few valuables into his pocket,
including his journals, the pages of which he hastily tore
out of their bindings for convenience of carrying.

   On leaving the ship their movements were much
ch. x1v] GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION 239

hampered by fog, and they were only able to steer in
the direction of Holsteinborg by aid of the compass.
Fortunately, they fell in with three kayaks containing
Eskimos, one of which was at once sent off to the ship
to act as a pilot in the event of her being afloat and able
to move, while the others guided the boat through a
labyrinth of islets and rocks to the settlement which
they shortly reached. Holsteinborg consisted of five
very neat wooden houses, a church, and some Eskimo
huts, all very neat and tidy. The houses were painted
black and white, and stood in patches of light green
grass. To Markham it had the appearance of a village
made of Dutch toys !

   The Governor, Mr. Lassen, when informed of the state
of affairs, was most obliging and sympathetic, and re
turned with them at once to the Valorous, accompanied
by his most experienced pilot. They found that the
rising tide had floated the ship, but she had sustained
serious injuries, and was making water at the rate of
about 8 inches an hour, so the pumps had to be kept
constantly going. Later in the evening they succeeded
in getting her safely anchored off Holsteinborg. Divers

were immediately sent down to examine and report
on the damage. They reported that several feet of
the main keel had been torn away, and that she had

sustained other equally serious injuries. The divers
and shipwrights at once set to work to repair the damage
temporarily, so far as they could, so as to enable the
ship to return to England.

   While this work was being executed, the Captain
and the Navigating Officer made a very complete survey
of the approaches to the settlement, which they found
were very incorrect in the charts then in use. Markham

was always ready to render assistance whenever and
wherever he could, and he made large collections of
the flora and fauna of that particular region when
opportunities offered. He also formed a valuable
geological collection, working with Mr. Gwyn Jeffreys
24o GEOGRAPHY AND EXPLORATION [ch. xrv

and Mr. Carpenter. On his return he wrote full de

scriptions of these collections.

On the 8th of August, the divers having completed

their labours, the Valorous sailed for England. Captain
Jones, however, undeterred by the injuries that his

ship had sustained, determined to carry out his in

structions to the utmost of his ability, and succeeded

in taking a very important line of soundings down

Davis Strait and across the Atlantic. Some of these

soundings were at depths of nearly 2,000 fathoms

(12,000 feet). Dredging at this great depth was also
carried out with satisfactory results.
The Valorous arrived at Devonport on the 29th of
August, exactly three months after her departure from

England with the Alert and Discovery. She had done
excellent service, so much so that the Admiralty, in
recognition of the arduous character of the work,

granted the officers and men double pay from the day

the ship left  Spithead   huins tialcchoeurntreotuf rtnhetocruDiesev:on"pTohrte.
As Markham     writes in

results are a collateral benefit derived from the despatch

of an Arctic expedition, and have been looked upon and

rewarded as the first fruits of that great national enter

prise."
He was greatly shocked on reaching home to hear of the

sad death of his lifelong friend, Commodore Goodenough,

who was killed by the natives of the Santa Cruz Islands

in the Pacific, while Commodore in command of the

Australian Station. They had been old schoolfellows

at Cheam and Westminster, and their mutual love and

admiration for each other had increased, if possible, as

the years went by. In less than a year Markham had

lost the two best friends, outside his family circle, he
had ever had --Sherard Osborn and James Goodenough.
Both were men of marked ability, of pre-eminent pro

fessional reputation, and always true and steadfast in

their friendship to him. Their loss to him, as to many

others, was irreparable.
                        CHAPTER XV

   ARCTIC INTERESTS, THE MERCHANT SERVICE, AND
                              OTHER MATTERS

Immed1ately on his return to England, Markham set
to work to prepare for the despatch of a relief ship the
following year. He brought the matter to the notice
of the public through the Press, and warned the Ad
miralty and his colleagues at the Geographical Society
that it was the duty of the country to despatch a vessel
in the ensuing year in order to communicate with Captain

Nares, so as to ascertain if his ships were safe, to bring

home any sick or disabled men, and otherwise to afford
relief and assistance if necessary.

   With the fate of Sir John Franklin so recently before
their eyes, the Admiralty, he considered, would be guilty
of a grave neglect of duty if they omitted to despatch
a relief expedition.

   The catastrophe of the Franklin expedition was con
stantly in his mind, for he was always of opinion that
the loss of life on that occasion was entirely due to the
fact that proper precautions to avoid disaster had not
been taken by the responsible authorities at home.
He was firmly convinced of the necessity of despatching
a ship (call it a relief ship, a communicating vessel, or
any other appellation) in order to establish communica
tion with the expedition the following year.

    Fortunately, the Admiralty held the same views,
 and on the return to England of Captain Allen Young
 in his ship the Pandora, it was arranged that he should
 proceed in that vessel the following year to the entrance

                                                                 24 1
242 ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS [ch. xv

of Smith Sound, there to meet the sledging-party that
Captain Nares had been instructed to send to that locality
in the summer of 1876. This decision was a great relief
 to Markham, who certainly would not have rested
content unless some such arrangement had been satis

factorily made.

   It will perhaps be remembered that Allen Young

 had purchased the old steam-sloop Pandora from the
 Admiralty, and had prepared her for Arctic service at
 his own expense, at the same time as the Arctic expedi
 tion was fitting out. His object was to examine the shores
of King William Land for traces of the lost Franklin
 expedition, and to make a thorough search for records,

and especially for the logs, of the Erebus and Terror. It

was also his intention to take his ship through the North-

West Passage, if it were found practicable to accomplish

this in one season. The Pandora sailed a month after
the departure of the Alert and Discovery from England.
Allen Young failed in effecting his object owing to the
large amount of heavy ice that was tightly packed
across Peel Strait; though he succeeded in getting
within about 150 miles of King William Land. He
decided, therefore, to return to England for the winter,

and to make another attempt the following year. On
his way back, knowing how anxious the people in
England would be to get the latest news of the Arctic
expedition, he resolved to make an attempt to search
for letters or records that might have been deposited
by the Alert and Discovery at the Cary Islands. This

he succeeded in doing, to the great delight and gratitude
of those who had friends and relatives in the ships.
On his arrival in England, the Admiralty unfolded to
him their proposal that he should attempt to com
municate with the expedition the following summer.
To this he readily assented, although it meant the
abandonment of the objects upon which he had set his
heart, and had gone to considerable expense to achieve

--namely, to establish the certainty of the fate of the
                                                      ^JSJWT >' --v»ri -e^^^m^T99*

ch. xv] ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS                                     243

Erebus and Terror, and to successfully achieve the North-

West Passage.

Being assured that everything had been done that

was possible for the despatch of the relief expedition,

and happy in the knowledge that every conceivable

precaution had been taken to insure the safety of Captain

Nares and his party, Markham could now rest content
for the time. In the event of calamity overtaking the

expedition, all that could possibly be thought of had

been done to insure, at any rate, the news becoming

known as rapidly as possible. He could therefore

begin with a quiet mind to polish off the long arrears

of work that had accumulated during his absence from
England. In addition to the pile of letters awaiting

his attention at the India Office, there was, of course,

okawnnfroiStwtairecnncJao,RumeangentiosontohLfea"rnhtcoiesadbseritteeibcorerno"nutoagfnhvdhot iy"osaugT"tehaTenhtdoHreaasGlwhsrokoeilehndnisslao"VnfodVtyhoaeygtaoegUsebnse"
(for the Hakluyt
these, there were      hiSso"cieMtyis)siotnos  be     completed.    "   Besides
                                               to     Tibet,"           Memoir
                                                      " Moral  his     Material
oPrfogthreessIn"di(aInndiSau--rvbeoytsh,"    and his           and
                                           published
                                                      by order of the Secre

tary of State for India), to be finished and presented to
Parliament. It must be confessed that this was a

goodly amount of work to fall to the lot of one man,

but, with Markham, the more he had to do the happier

he seemed to be. Truly has it been said of him by the

"Proesnildyenidt eaof   the Royal Geographical        Society, that his
                       of recreation was a fresh       piece of work."

This was characteristic of the man; he could never be

overwhelmed with too much work, especially if it was

connected with geography or ethnology, or other similar

subjects in which he was interested.

   During the early months of 1876 he was in constant
communication with his friend Allen Young, in con

nection with the forthcoming cruise of the Pandora,

and on more than one occasion he visited that vessel
244 ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS [ch. xv

at Southampton, where she was being fitted out for her
second trip to the Arctic seas. This time, however,
she was to be on Admiralty service. Although Allen
Young was acting under orders of the Admiralty, their
Lordships, very wisely, left all the details of the cruise
to his judgment, based on his wide experience of Arctic
matters. He was instructed to take such steps as he
considered most advisable for carrying out their general

views.

   The Pandora sailed from Plymouth on the 2nd of

June. It is unnecessary to follow Allen Young on his

errand of mercy to the Arctic Regions ; suffice it to say
that he fulfilled his mission, and carried out the duties
entrusted to him, to the complete satisfaction of their
Lordships, and of everyone else who was interested in
the safety and welfare of the expedition. He succeeded
in finding the cairn erected by Captain Nares the

previous year on Cape Isabella, and brought home all

the letters and documents found there, ascertaining
beyond doubt that no member of the expedition had
visited the place during the current year. As there
was nothing further for Allen Young to do, he decided
to return to England.

   By a curious coincidence, in the middle of the Atlantic,
on the 1 6th of October, two vessels bound in the same
direction were sighted from the Pandora. They proved
to be the Alert and Discovery. Communication, how
ever, was practicable only by signal. Allen Young
congratulated the expedition on the success it had
achieved and gave them the latest news. The ships
then separated. The Alert and Discovery arrived at
Valentia on the 27th of October, when the news of the
success of the expedition was at once telegraphed to
 England. Needless to add, by none was the intelligence
received with greater joy than by Clements Markham.
On the arrival of the ships at Spithead, he was almost
the first man to visit the Alert, where he received a right

 hearty welcome from all on board. Every soul was glad
ch.xv] ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS                  245

to see him, and his arms must have ached from the

continuous hand-shaking he had to undergo.

Markham sums up concisely the successful results of

the expedition as follows :

1 . The creation of a young generation of experienced

Arctic officers.

   2 . The discovery of 300 miles of new coast-line.
   3. The attainment of the highest latitude ever reached
by man.

4. The discovery of a large section of the Polar

Regions.

   5. A year's magnetic observations at two separate

stations, situated farther north than had ever been

previously taken.

   6. A year's meteorological observations at two

stations in high latitudes.            movements   and

   7. A series of tidal observations.

   8. Valuable observations on the

formation of ice in a very high latitude.

9. The geology of a vast region hitherto unknown.
10. The discovery of a fossil forest in 820 North

latitude.

1 1 . Observations on the mammalia and birds of a new

region, also on the most northern fishes in the world.

12. Various collections of insects, crustacea, mollusca,

echinodermata, polyzoa, etc., and a complete collection of

the flora of the most northern known region in the world.

He was well satisfied with these results, although

disappointed that the outbreak of scurvy should have

necessitated the return of the ships so much sooner

than he had expected. He had hoped that they would

have been able to spend another season in the far north.

Captain Nares had, however, exercised a wise judgment

and a rare courage in deciding to bring the ships home,

and by his action undoubtedly prevented the further

sacrifice of valuable lives. Another winter in the Arctic

Regions, with scurvy prevalent in the ships, would in

all probability have had a disastrous result.

                                               17
246 ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS [ch. xv

   On the return of the expedition, Captain Nares
received the special thanks of Her Majesty Queen
Victoria. His proceedings were fully approved by the
Admiralty, and appreciated by the Navy, especially by
the old Arctic officers. He was created a K.C.B.,

and was awarded the gold medal of the Royal Geo
graphical Society. The senior officers in their re

spective ranks obtained promotion, and a medal was
conferred on every member of the expedition. Naturally,
Markham devoted his energies to the compilation of
an account of the excellent work that had been accom

plished by the expedition. He gave many lectures
on the success that had been attained, and pointed out,
with great lucidity, the terrible effects of the disease
which had prevented an even greater success. He
disagreed strongly with the absurd decisions arrived at
by the committee appointed by the Admiralty to investi

gate the cause of the outbreak of scurvy. It reported

that the outbreak was due to the absence of lime-juice
on the sledging journeys. As, however, it was abund
antly proved that many of those attacked by the disease
were never employed on sledging duties at all, and con
sequently had their daily allowance of lime-juice on
board the ship, this decision was certainly open to criti
cism. Moreover, the majority of those who did not
suffer from the outbreak were officers and men who had
not partaken of lime-juice for lengthened periods. This
certainly pointed to other causes for the outbreak.
However, this is not the place to labour the question
for and against the use of lime-juice. Its efficacy as
an antiscorbutic in tropical and warm climates is un
doubted ; possibly it does not possess the same prophy
lactic qualities in colder climates or under Arctic

conditions. It was, however, a subject in which Mark-

ham was keenly interested.

   In the summer of 1878, and also in the following
year, he made extensive tours in Holland, visiting many
places of interest in Friesland --Groningen, Zutphen,
ch.xv] ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS                247

Utrecht, Arnheim, Breda, Antwerp, and other localities

which would aid him in the preparation of certain
works which he contemplated writing. With his usual

thoroughness, he wished to be personally acquainted

with the geographical and architectural features of

every place he would have to describe. His descriptions

of these historical places are entered in minute detail

in the journal containing the account of his travels,

and are most interesting.

"  On his return           to England, he wrote  an article for the
   Encyclopaedia           Britannica," on the   Progress of Geo

graphical Discovery. In August of the same year we

find him presiding over the Geographical Section of

the British Association at Sheffield, at which he delivered

the opening address, and then read a paper dealing with
the River Basin of the Don. For the benefit of the

reporters he wrote abstracts of all the numerous papers

read in that section. Ten of these papers were written,

or rewritten, by him, and many were actually translated

into English by him from various languages.

   During this period he contributed many interesting

papers to the Royal Geographical Society; and, at odd

intervals, he visited countries abroad, particularly Hol

land and Flanders, for the purpose of collecting material

for works on which he was engaged, or about to take

in hand.

   The variety of subjects to which his versatile dis

position led him was truly extraordinary. Prior to

alea"vinHgistEonryglaonfd  with the  Arctic expedition, he published
                           Persia,"  a work of formidable propor

tions containing much interesting and hitherto unknown

matter. It professed to be a condensed narrative of

Persian annals, and included a chapter on the geography

and history of the Persian Gulf. It was a vast under

taking, necessitating much laborious research in musty

documents and other manuscripts hitherto buried in

the archives of the India Office and other places. Being

unacquainted with the Persian language, he was depen
248 ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS [ch. xv

dent in a great measure on translations. Before utilising

these, however, he took care to have them checked by

competent and trustworthy authorities. In his preface

he remarks that

" he undertook the task because, in translating and
annotating Clavijos' ' Embassy to Timur,' he had
occasion to refer to nearly all the translated Persian
authorities and to the European writers on Persia,
and he had amassed a large number of notes and memo
randa chronologically arranged. He thought that the
preparation of a connected historical sketch based on
these materials would be acceptable at a time when
Persia is receiving much attention from politicians,
and would serve a useful purpose in time to come, seeing
that Persia will always continue to be a most important
neighbour State with reference to British India.

This amassing " of notes," to which he alludes, was

an habitual practice with him. He never went on any

expedition, or any journey, without taking voluminous

notes and making pencil sketches of everything of in

terest he saw and heard. Every little incident that was

brought to his notice, no matter how insignificant it

might at the time appear, was scrupulously entered in

his notebook for future reference. Nothing was omitted,
nothing was too trivial ; in fact, in many cases the triviali

ties were entered at greater length and were more

conspicuous, than those of a more important and perhaps

scientific character.

As an illustration of his wonderful assiduity, mention

may be made of a volume which we came across recently

in looking over some old journals and other documents

in his library. It is a book containing biographical

notices of every single officer and man that served in

the Arctic expedition of 1875-76. They are not brief
records of naval life, but complete accounts of ancestry

and careers in the Navy, giving full descriptions of each

man, his appearance, weight, chest capacity, and all

ptiaonrteicdulaasrshacvoinngne"cteadciwcaitthrixhiomn .     One    of them   is  men
                                                         his left   big toe         He
                                                                             "1
ch. xv] ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS                                      249

also records when, and to whom, they were married, the

dates of the births of their children, and in some in

stances even the names of their offspring. Nor was he

satisfied in dealing only with the ship's company of the

Alert (in which he crossed the Atlantic to Greenland),
but every man in the Discovery also receives similar
attention. In the case of the officers, their coats of arms

and sledge flags are emblazoned in correct colours over

their respective histories; while in the case of several

of the men Markham has painted some device typical

of their surnames or of the special duties allotted to them

on board the ships. Sir George Nares has no less than

ten pages devoted to a recapitulation of his services;

another officer is accorded nearly twenty-four pages;

while in several instances some of the men have each

been conceded               two, three, or even more  ptahgees".     These,
onfotecosu"rseth, ahtavhee   all been compiled from    was        amassed
                             took during the time he              with the

expedition; but how he succeeded in adding to the

biographies, and bringing them up to a more recent date,

is somewhat mysterious. He also records the characters

they impersonated in the theatricals held on board their

ships while in winter-quarters, and the songs, senti
mental and comic, which they sang. In many cases,

even, he refers to the politics they professed to hold !

WofofriDllttiuhahermeinHIgnaBdktaihelfuesfiy,n"yt,"eSbaoyracine1Fd8tay8t0hth"eMerTahsdreeekchNoAanacmdtousrectaaodl,mita"iponlTendhteMeodof VraatonhlydeaHgei"esdtsiOoterboydf

servations of Sir Richard Hawkins." He also wrote,

at the request of the Council of the Royal Geographical

Society, a comprehensive history of the work of that

Society during the fifty years of its existence. About

this  time,   too, he lectured   aSt otchieetyL)iteornar"y   Institute  at
Hull   (by   invitation of that                             The Siege   of

Hull," where he had a large and appreciative audience.
From Hull, he was obliged to hurry back to London to

make all the necessary arrangements for the reception
2 so ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS [ch.xv

of Baron Nordenskjold on his return in the Vega. News

had been received that he had successfully navigated

the North-East Passage, sailing along the north coast

of Siberia to Behring's Strait. Markham's arrangements,

however, were sadly interfered with by the non-arrival
of the Vega on the day indicated, the ship having been
delayed by adverse winds. On the arrival of the

distinguished explorer, he was met by Markham and

many delegates from the Geographical and other learned

Societies, who did their best to render his short stay in
London agreeable. He was feted wherever he went,

and received a hearty welcome from the general public,

wherever and whenever he was recognised. The Geo

graphical Society entertained him lavishly, and he was
also on various occasions the guest of Allen Young,
Clements Markham, and Lord Northbrook. Markham

also took charge of him during his free hours, and
showed him the sights of London. After staying for a
week in England, the Baron left for Paris, thereby setting

Markham at liberty to return to his literary labours.

   At this time Markham was engaged on a book on

Peru, which was to constitute one of a series of volumes

dealing with foreign countries. He was also very busy

preparing a  new   edition  of his  history of the  in"trPoedruucvtiiaonn
of cinchona  into   India.   This   work, entitled
Bark," recorded the great progress made by the cinchona

plants in twenty years, and clearly demonstrated the

complete success of the enterprise. It was with un

feigned satisfaction that he was in a position to proclaim

to the world at large the prosperous issue of his work

in this direction. He was content to know that the result

of his labours in that particular field of enterprise was

now an assured success.

   On the 20th of July, 1880, he celebrated his fiftieth

birthday. He and his wife were travelling in the

Netherlands at the time, and on that day they reached

the town of Venloo, situated on the River Maas, in the

province of Limburg. He thus quaintly refers to this
ch. xv] ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS                                   251

event in his journal: " Walked from the station into

the town, and as we entered it I became fifty years of
age -- a great weight of years." He could look back,

however, with pride and pleasure to the good use he

had made of his half-century of existence.

    His tour of the Low Countries was undertaken with

a view to making himself acquainted personally with

the scenes of the operations and battles conducted

by Sir Francis and Sir Horace Vere, while supporting

the Netherlands   against               the encroachment     awndorktyr"anTnhye
of Spain. This    was in                anticipation of his

Fighting Veres," which he brought out eight years later.
His descriptions of the struggle, and of the battles fought

during this campaign, as set forth in his journal from

first-hand local information, are most vividly described;

but they are all fully embodied in the above-named book.

    On a subsequent occasion he visited Ypres and

Tournai, and the country in their immediate neigh
bourhood. In the light of recent events it is interesting

to read in his journal the detailed descriptions which
he gives of these places. The Cloth Hall at Ypres,

now, alas ! a mass of ruins, engages, as might be ex

pected, his critical attention; he criticises the general

style of its architecture and the absence of an imposing

base to the structure, the walls rising, as it were, directly

from the ground. The Cathedral of St. Martin he

describes at length, and especially alludes to the shady

walks about its ancient walls, and the broad moat

covered with beautiful water-lilies. What a contrast

to its state to-day ! Courtrai, too, he describes in

similar manner; but many of its ancient buildings had

been spoilt even then, though by a vastly different
                                        uonfdetrhatthedayru--th"lesdsesthraonyderso,"f
agent ! They   "  hraedstocreorms e"
the so-called

Markham calls them ! The choir of Tournai Cathedral

he  likens to Westminster Abbey on a                      s"mTahlle  scale; and
                                                                     Adoration
he  trheecoMrdasgith"atonRcuebheunnsg'  famous   picture
                                        in the  Church    of the Capuchins.
of
252 ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS [ch. xv

During one of the many sieges to which Tournai was

subjected, this picture was injured by a bullet, and in
1 815 it was taken to the Louvre by order of Napoleon.
When the looted pictures were restored, as it was

unclaimed by the people of Tournai, it was sent to
Brussels, where it now reposes in the Mus£e de Peinture.

Markham was particularly attracted by this picture.
He purchased what he supposed to be a copy of it,
but afterwards found that it was the original study

painted by Rubens for his picture. Mons he describes

in some detail, and relates interesting legends con

nected with this and other places which he visited.

From Mons he proceeded to Malplaquet, thence on to

Brussels. Having obtained all the information that he

wanted, he returned to England.

   In the early part of that year (1883) he accepted the
invitation of the Yorkshire Archaeological Association

to read a paper on the Battle of Wakefield. He also
contributed chapters on Peru and Chile to the History of

America then in course of preparation at Cambridge
(U.S.). His work for the Geographical Society included
a paper on the Exploration of the Amaru-Mayse and

Beni Rivers and the adjacent country to the east of

Cuzco and La Paz.

In the summer he went over to Holland to bid farewell

and wish Godspeed to the officers and crew of the

little Dutch exploring schooner Willem Barents, then

about to sail on her sixth voyage of exploration to the
Arctic Seas in the vicinity of Novaya Zemlya and Franz
Jozef Land. He was accompanied on this occasion by
Allen Young and Leigh Smith. They received a great
ovation from the Utrecht students, and altogether had
a most festive time. After the departure of the vessel,

the students insisted on carrying Markham off to

Utrecht, he, not unwillingly, consenting ! We may be

sure that during the time he was at Utrecht he was

well looked after, for  he was   "enftuenrtaainnedd joilnlityreg"uluapr
student fashion, which   means
ch.xv] ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS                                                                   253

to the small hours of the morning. The daylight hours,

however, were devoted to visiting the most interesting

historical buildings in the city, and the most important

places connected with the University. He also witnessed

the annual boat-race of the three Universities, Leyden,

Delft and Utrecht, and on his return to England he

wrote an account of this Dutch University boat-race, for
the Field newspaper.
With regard to his official work in England, Markham

records an incident which markedly illustrates the absence

of geographical knowledge at that time in one of our

important Government departments and one that deals

especially with the salaries of our consular officers abroad.

The department in question was informed that a decision

had been arrived at by the Foreign Office to establish a

Consul at Resht, the centre of a large silk-producing

district in Persia. The Treasury, however, objected

to the appointment on the plea of expense, and refused

to grant the necessary salary. There was a great deal
of correspondence on the disputed question, which

resulted in a representative of the Foreign Office being

despatched to the Treasury, to discuss the matter with

the official who had objected to the payment of the

salary that would be attached to the proposed consul

ship. He failed, however, to make any impression
                                                                                       At last, in
ohsaneidtshaethidefu: no"cffticiDoiaonla, ry"youaantdktnhteohwaTtrewiashseutrhreey.  Resht is?"     d"esNpaoi,r",

                                                                                     reason why a Consul

is not required there !" This from a man drawing a

salary of £2,500 per annum, and the recipient of high

honours for his valuable (?) services !
   Apropos of this incident, Markham once received a

note, written to him privately from the Foreign Office,

requesting information concerning a place called Casa

blanca. Apparently we had a representative there in

the person of a Vice-Consul, but the officials at home

did not know where it was, and supposed that it was

in Italy ! The information was required as speedily
254 ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS [ch. xv

as possible, as some odious questions were about to be
asked in Parliament regarding the consular official

stationed there, and the Foreign Office was ignorant
as to its locality ! There must have been some sur
prise at Markham's reply that Casablanca was the
Spanish name for Dar-el-baida, which is situated on
the coast of Morocco.

   At this time the Arctic Regions were again engrossing

much of his attention. Lieutenant Schwatka (an Ameri
can) had recently made an interesting journey to King
William Land, where he picked up what subsequently
proved to be unreliable stories from the Eskimos regard

ing the missing Franklin expedition. Then there was
the necessity for instituting a search for Leigh Smith,
no news of his whereabouts having been received since
his departure from England the previous year. He
had proceeded in his steamer the Eira, specially con
structed by him for ice navigation, to the Barents
Sea, with a view of endeavouring to reach the North
Pole, or at any rate a high northern latitude, along the
west coast of Franz Josef Land. Markham formed one
of a deputation, headed by Lord Aberdare (the President
of the Royal Geographical Society) to the Admiralty,
to urge the necessity of sending a ship to Franz Josef
Land to search for the Eira. The deputation met with
a very encouraging reception, and an offer of £5,000
towards the expenses of the search. Allen Young was

selected by Mr. T. K. Smith (brother of Leigh Smith)

to carry out this duty, and he sailed in the Hope, a steam-
whaler that had been specially chartered for the purpose.

At Mr. T. K. Smith's request, Markham drafted the

instructions for the relief expedition.
   In August news was received in England of the

return of Allen Young with the pleasing report of the
safety of Leigh Smith and all his people. His ship
the Eira had been crushed by the ice off the coast of
Franz Josef Land, but the men had all succeeded in
reaching the shore in safety, where they had passed the
ch.xv] ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS  255

winter without undue hardship, and with no loss of

life. They were rescued by the Hope the following
summer. The news of this success was received with
much public rejoicing, and it was a great relief to Mark-
ham, whose anxiety for the safety of the Eira was

perhaps increased by his personal acquaintance with
the dangers incidental to Arctic exploration.

    But this was not the only Arctic adventure that had

been occupying his mind. No news of Lieutenant
Greely and his party had been received for some time.
This expedition had followed in the footsteps of the

recent British expedition, and had proceeded up Smith
Sound with the intention of trying to reach the North
Pole. They had disembarked from their ship in August,
 1881, in Discovery Harbour, Lady Franklin Bay, where
H.M.S. Discovery had passed the winter of 1875-76.
They were well supplied with provisions, and provided

with huts in which to live. A relief expedition was

despatched from the United States the following year,
but the ice was so impenetrable that they were unable to
effect communication. However, they left a large supply
of stores and provisions with a boat near Cape Sabine.

    Another relief expedition was despatched the following
year, but, unfortunately, the vessel was crushed by
the ice at the entrance of Smith Sound, and so another

year had to pass without communication. The next

year, however, a vessel succeeded in reaching Cape
Sabine, where the survivors of the expedition had arrived .

It was only just in time, for they were on the verge of

collapse from weakness and starvation. They had

 undergone inconceivable hardships and had suffered
 cruel privations, and some of the party had already
 succumbed to starvation and scurvy.

    The safety of the various Arctic expeditions being
 now satisfactorily assured, Markham was able to turn

 his attention to other matters. He was a frequent
 visitor at this time to Portsmouth, where he had many

 friends. He was much interested in everything apper
256 ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS [ch.xv

taining to the town, not only from old associations when
he was in the Navy, but also because his great-uncle,
Admiral John Markham, had represented the borough
in Parliament during the early part of the nineteenth
century for a period of twenty-three years, being for a
portion of that time a member of the Board of Admiralty.
Markham collected a vast amount of interesting matter
connected with the old town, having obtained the
necessary permission to consult the archives and other
documents preserved at the Town Hall. Many of our

Sovereigns had either embarked or landed at the old
port ; many historic episodes had been enacted within its
immediate vicinity; and it was essentially the most

important naval arsenal in England, if not in the world.

Markham thoroughly enjoyed his visits to Portsmouth,
for they gave him opportunities of renewing acquaint
ance with many old friends who were serving in the
ships that visited, or were stationed at, that port.

   Wherever he went, Markham invariably carried with

him his own writing materials and books of reference,

so that he was never idle when circumstances, such as

bad weather or perhaps a touch of the gout from which

he occasionally suffered, prevented him from going
out. He also took advantage of these so-called holidays
to write the many lectures and reviews of books that
demanded so much of his time. He wrote papers and
articles on the missing Polar expeditions, including the
American expedition of De Long in the Jeannette*

   · The  Jeannelte sailed from San  Francisco under  the command of
Captain   De Long on the 8th of                       passing through
                                     July, 1879, and
Behring's Strait, she was crushed in the ice-pack on the 12th of
June, 1881, and sank in Lat. 77.15 N. Her crew dragged the ship's
boats over the iceto Bennet Island, where they arrived on the 29th
of July. On the 10th of September they reached one of the New
Siberia Islands, and two days later set out for the mouth of the River
Lena. The same evening the three boats became separated in a

gale. De Long perished with two of his boat's crew from starvation
and exhaustion; three survivors only of this party succeeding in

reaching a village in Siberia. The second boat with its crew also
reached civilisation, but the third was lost.
ch. xv] ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS                                      257

suggesting the desirability of sending a vessel to search

the coast of Siberia from Cape Chelyuskin to the east.

It was along this route that the survivors were eventually

discovered and rescued.

He lectured in Yorkshire on the Battle of Towton,

"anTdhein   the same county  dethlieverPeodtaatono"the(rnamlecetlyu,re   on
           Original Home of                                             the

Andes), in which he explained the influence that the

trade-wind exerted on the growth of vegetation generally

and on the potato in particular. The versatility of his

literary productions was amazing, and he always wrote

and spoke with a full knowledge of the matter upon

which he was writing or lecturing.

During a visit he paid to Bristol for the purpose of

delivering a lecture on the Basque Provinces and on the

old but now obsolete Whale Fishery, which formed one

of the chief industries of Bristol as early as the fourteenth

century and as late as the seventeenth, he obtained

much information from the shipmasters and ship

owners whom he met there, regarding the lamentable

ignorance of geography exhibited by the men engaged

by the Board of Trade to examine candidates in navi
gation for the merchant service. In consequence of
this information, Markham took the matter up with

that energy with which he invariably dealt with matters

that he considered should be reformed. He at once

wrote letters to the different examiners stationed at the

various seaport towns along the coast, inquiring if

navigation classes and schools for instruction existed,

and, if not, what facilities there were for obtaining
instruction. After acquiring all the information possible

from these sources (which was extremely unsatisfactory),
and being of opinion that the Royal Geographical

Society should take the lead in encouraging and foster

ing the study of nautical astronomy, navigation, and

kindred subjects, in our mercantile marine, he brought

up the question before the Council of the Geographical

Society and the Board of Trade.
258 ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS [ch. xv

   This action bore good fruit. His views regarding
the nautical education of the young officers of our
merchant service were fully concurred in by the Board
of Trade. They were also recognised and adopted at
the South Kensington examinations, which tended very
materially to render the certificates thus obtained of

practical value, and not the shams they had hitherto
been considered. This, it must be confessed, was a

gigantic stride in both the moral and material pro
gress of our mercantile marine; for it tended to raise
the officers of that service from the slough of ignorance
and incapacity, to the acme of perfection in nautical
science and navigation. The mere fact of acquiring

such knowledge imparted a better tone to the young
officers; and Markham's energy certainly assisted in
making the officers of our merchant service what
they now are, the finest and most cultured in the
world.

   It was while carrying out his investigations regarding

the nautical training of these young officers, that Mark-
ham became personally interested in the welfare and
instruction of the cadets on board the training ships

Worcester and Conway. These vessels, old men-of-war
presented for the purpose by the Admiralty, were organ
ised, controlled, and financed by various shipping com
panies, and others interested in our merchant service,
with the object of educating and providing efficiently in
structed and properly qualified officers for the mercantile

marine. These two schools -- the Worcester lay at Green-
hithe, the Conway on the Mersey near Liverpool --were
intended to be to the merchant service very much what

the old Britannia was to the Royal Navy. It was an

excellent scheme, brilliantly thought out, and splendidly
inaugurated; but further development was necessary to
increase its utility, and to make the ships thoroughly
fulfil the requirements for which they had been estab
lished. Both were controlled by local committees con

sisting of merchants and shipowners, who took the
ch. xv] ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS  259

greatest interest in the work, and devoted much of their

valuable time to insuring their success.

   At the time these institutions were first brought

to Markham's notice, each ship had about 150 cadets
under instruction. They were fine, well-conditioned
lads between the ages of fourteen and eighteen. Many
of them were the sons of captains of merchant ships,
and all were gentlemen. They had a uniform somewhat
similar to that worn by our Naval Cadets. They were
instructed (as they still are) in all the different branches
of seamanship, and they lived under the same conditions

as they would on board an ordinary merchant ship at
sea, except that a great portion of the day was devoted
to instruction, both practical and theoretical. They
sleep in hammocks, work the three masts, and bend,

reef, and furl the sails, just as would be done in a ship
at sea. School, at which they are thoroughly instructed
in nautical astronomy, navigation, and other cognate

subjects, is conducted on the main-deck under the
superintendence of duly qualified instructors.

   Markham paid many visits to the two ships, and
from that time he formed an affectionate attachment

for them both. He was especially concerned in the
welfare of the cadets, and took an interest in their
tuition and subsequent careers which never abated,
but, on the contrary, increased as time went on. This
interest lasted to the end of his life. His presence was

always welcome, and he became persona grata to all on

board.

   His house soon became the resort of the Worcester

boys. They loved running up to see him, and he for
his part as dearly loved to have them about him. In

his company they were as happy as the day was long,
and he entered into all their fun, listened sympathetic
ally to all their woes, always gave them good advice, and

invariably warned them against committing, although
perhaps unwittingly, any breach of discipline. We
strongly suspect that the wildest ones were his especial
260 ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS [ch.xv

favourites ! One of his most particular friends on board

the Worcester he describes as a particularly engaging

boy from his frankness of character and  "tohteal   absence
of any affectation; but, he concludes,             was the
cheekiest youngster I ever met." We are inclined to

think that this cheekiness was not without encourage

ment.

There was nothing Markham would not do that could

conduce in any way to their pleasure, their happiness,

or their instruction. He would spend whole afternoons

in their company, taking them to the Tower of London,

the Zoological Gardens, Westminster Abbey, the

Aquarium, or any Exhibitions that might be open;

then home to tea and dinner, winding up the day with

a theatre. These excursions were a source of constant

delight to him, and he almost spoilt the boys with the

kindness and generosity that he lavished on them. He

wrote special lectures for them, and would go down

"ttsCAhouaueCbbsjooettlhtrcNuaetmasli,vabai,Wgnu"dashot,re"coe"rsD,""tlMeeraDcretkrr"ueacrta,kTeo"tedhoerad"neoLadlTniinvfhedeHer"aowhSfiEtksehaibenAramslPksy,r.bt"oiaajner"D,cA"itsPmicordoi"nonev,nlceS"egreebCrHas"aosenttTnihoahre,ony"erf
Early History of Signals," and many on the Polar

Regions. He selected purposely subjects which he

thought would be of use to the boys in their future

careers. Besides being full of information, he always

took care that his lectures should be amusing, and they

were never an aid to somnolence ! These lectures

were also repeated to the boys on board the Conway

in the Mersey. The result of this close association with

the Worcester was, as might naturally be foreseen, his

election as one of the governing body of that vessel;

and certainly no better selection could have been made

in the interests of the institution.

   It is little short of marvellous how he could find time

to complete all the literary work in which he was engaged,
ch.xv] ARCTIC AND OTHER INTERESTS       261

for during the time that he was busying himself with

these matters, he  "wEanscyacllsoopawerdiitaingBrairttaicnlensi,cap"r;inhceipawlalys
on Peru, for the

translating from the Spanish the second part of the

Chronicles of Peru by Ciesa de Leon, for the Hakluyt

Society; he was correcting the proof-sheets of his ac
count of the War between Peru and Chile; and he was

searching Admiralty records and the State Paper Office

for information regarding Admiral John Markham,
whose Life he was engaged in compiling. He was

also preparing a paper on Recent Arctic Exploration

for the Geographical Section of the British Association
to be held in York, and was writing an essay on the

Life of Akbar ! It is really wonderful, with all this

work, how it was possible for him to find any time to

devote to children; but he loved the young, especially

if they were boys. As an instance of his devotion to

them, he relates in his journal that in the course of a

single day he took one of his favourite Worcester boys to

the following places : to a hatter, a hosier, a tailor, and

then to the New Gallery to see the pictures; luncheon

at the Criterion; then to the United Service Museum,
Westminster Hall, the Courts of Law, Westminster

Abbey, the Aquarium, where they had tea; then home

to dinner, and a theatre afterwards ! Not a bad day's

work for a busy man who had reached the allotted

age of three score years and ten !

                                    18
                        CHAPTER XVI

                  THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES

Clements Markhah was always a stanch friend to
those in distress; and no trouble was too great for him
to take in assisting to alleviate their sufferings, whether
physical or mental. The following incident demonstrates
his sympathy and warm-heartedness in this direction.

   It came to his knowledge that a young seaman,

belonging to one of our men-of-war on the Pacific
Station, had been sentenced by court-martial to five
years' penal servitude for striking, in a fit of temper,
his superior officer, a gunner's mate. The offender
was only eighteen years of age, a strong, hard-working
lad, but possessing a quick and passionate temper.
When Markham heard the details of the case, he was
shocked at what he considered the cruel severity of
the punishment for an offence that was purely one against
naval discipline. He regarded the punishment as in
human and unjust, and he set to work actively to en
deavour to obtain a remission of the sentence. He
 onsulted the authorities at the Home Office, and even
wrote a pathetic appeal for clemency to the Home
Secretary. The letter was referred to the Admiral t}- for
reconsideration, but their Lordships declined to inter
fere in the matter.

   After the lapse of five or six weeks, Markham received
a private letter from the first Sea Lord, saying that he,
personally, saw no objection to a mitigation of the
sentence by the Home Office. This was encouraging,
for it was evident that some member of the Board of
Admiralty was somewhat conscience -stricken. Still,

                                                             262
ch. xv1] THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES 263

no action was taken by the authorities. Markham
then wrote out a detailed report of the facts, and sent
a copy to every member of Parliament, bringing the case
also to the notice of other prominent public men. He
dwelt particularly on the monstrous system established
in the Navy, in sending young lads of unblemished

character to penal servitude (where they would be
obliged to associate with the very worst of criminals)
for a purely military offence committed in a fit of temper ;
and he urged those who were members of Parliament
to take action in the House of Commons. The replies
were invariably sympathetic, and there were many
who went so far as to promise to consider how his
suggestions could best be utilised. He succeeded also
in getting the case brought up in the House of Lords,
where, however, in a thin house, the members of the

Government, urged no doubt by party considerations,
succeeded in talking the question out without arriving
at a satisfactory conclusion.

    He then obtained an order from the Home Secretary
 to see the lad in the convict prison, at Chatham. This
 was the first time he had ever met the youth. Markham
 was much impressed with his personal appearance, in
 spite of the prisoner being clothed in the garb of a
 convict, with his hair closely cropped. He describes
 him as a good-looking, strongly built young fellow,
 with an honest, bright face. In the course of conversa
 tion the man expressed his regret that his temper
 should have got the better of him, and attributed it
 to the fact that he had but recently partaken of his
 daily allowance of grog, which had so affected him as to

 cause him to resent the abuse he was receiving from his
 instructor. He assured Markham, however, that he
 would face the inevitable as bravely as he could, and
 strive to maintain his good character to the bitter end.
  He spoke feelingly about his parents, and the disgrace
 which he had brought on them. He was well-mannered,
 and altogether Markham formed a very favourable
264 THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES [ch.xv1

opinion of the lad, a judgment that was borne out by

the doctor and other officials in the prison whom he

interrogated . This interview had the effect of strengthen

ing Markham's determination to do all in his power to

obtain an abatement of the sentence.

Markham was not the man to take no for an answer,

especially when he had set his heart upon righting a

wrong, which, if not righted, would probably have a

baneful effect upon the young manhood of the country.

He wrote again to every important member of Parlia

ment, of both Houses, whom he thought likely to help,

and sent strongly worded letters to the Morning Post,

St. James's Gazette, and other papers, recounting the
facts of the case, and urging the Press to exert its influ

ence on behalf of the young man. He also drafted a

petition for the parents to sign and forward to the
First Lord of the Admiralty. Nor did his energies rest

here. He wrote a complete history of the case, in which

he carefully analysed the returns of naval punishments

during the past twelve years, accompanied by ample

notes on the general question of naval discipline, and
sent it to the proprietor of the Morning Post. The result

of this was the appearance of a powerful article in that

paper urging the necessity for punishment reform in

the Navy.
At this time there was evidence of the desire of the

Admiralty to climb down from the position they had

at first assumed; for they now submitted the whole

case to the prisoner's recent Captain for his views and

report. This was regarded as a distinct concession in

favour of mitigation of the punishment, but, alas !

only a few days after this communication from the

Admiralty (and presumably after receipt of the report
demanded from the     leCtateprtafirno)mth"e  MyoyunLgordmsan"'sdepcalirneinntgs
received an official

to recommend any remission of the sentence passed on
their son. This was a staggerer; for the Admiralty

had already consented to reconsider the case on the
ch. xv1] THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES 265

receipt of evidence which completely rebutted the

original allegations. It was inexplicable !

    Markham did not take this rebuff quietly. He at
once prepared a petition to the Prime Minister, signed

by all those who were interested in the case --and they
were many in number --setting forth all particulars,

and specially emphasising the severity of a punishment
which they considered to be a grave miscarriage of
justice. He also published an article in the November
number of the Nineteenth Century, in which he entered
fully into the iniquitous injustice of the case, concluding
with a pointed allusion to the harmful effects that would
ensue in recruiting for the Navy. He also wrote
privately to prominent members of the Government,
representing very forcibly the necessity for introducing
a Bill into Parliament, abolishing penal servitude in
the Navy for crimes which involved no moral guilt,
but were merely subversive of naval discipline.

   At last his efforts were crowned with success. On the
31st of October, 1884-- after more than six months'
incessant correspondence between naval, judicial, and
other Governmental departments --he had the satisfac
tion of receiving a notification from the Home Office
that, in consequence of recent correspondence with the
Admiralty, it had been decided that, for the future,
naval prisoners undergoing sentences of penal servitude,
for strictly naval offences, should, when released, be
absolutely free from all police supervision. This was
a decided victory, and due entirely to Markham 's
strenuous representations of the injustice of the old
procedure. But better news was to follow; for on the
same day he received a letter from the mother of the
youth, announcing that her son had been released,
and that the remaining two and a half years of his
sentence had been remitted. Thus half of the entire
sentence was abrogated unconditionally, and this was

unquestionably due to the persistent and untiring
exertions of Clements Markham.
266 THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES [ch. xv1

Not only had his pertinacity been of service in the
cause of justice and humanity, but it was also of direct

advantage to the Navy. There are many quick-tempered

young fellows in the Service who possess in a high degree

the germs   of Tchoeurahgoet-taenmdpereresodurc"e,scsoallvyawluaagb,l"e   in times
of danger.                                                               from his

daring and disregard of personal risk, often proves in

the stress of battle the best and bravest of men.

Markham's first act, on being informed of the lad's

release, was to send for him to his house and take him

into his own service as a footman ! This he did in spite

of the man's personal appearance, for he was short

and thickset, and the backs of his hands were elaborately

tattooed; nor had he any experience as a domestic

servant. Markham's reason for doing this was that he
considered it most important that the lad's first employ

ment after coming out of prison should be with some

body who was well acquainted with his character and

would keep him straight. It was a kindly, philanthropic
motive, but, unfortunately it was doomed to failure,

for to his great regret Markham was compelled to dis

miss the lad before he had been very long in his service.

He pledged himself, however, in Markham's presence

to abstain in future from the use of spirits, the act for

which he had been dismissed having been perpetrated

while under the influence of drink. There is no doubt

that Markham felt the cause that involved his protegees

discharge very keenly; nevertheless he continued to

take an interest in his welfare, and succeeded in getting

him appointed to the London Fire Brigade, in which he

has since done good and valuable service.

During all this time Markham's interest in his own

ptcahanaeddrteiEtcosaunsloattfrhInethwdireioarAkWrCcootrncimceesvpteaverronyyafa;l"ganegdsg;eoCdnoo. nn"wHHa" yeuDdaoslmnoecnpttuihearener,dd""   to the
                                                                                                                                                 Rise of
                                                                                                                                                 Baffin,"

                                                                                                                                                 and on

the careers of Captain Cook and Captain Scoresby,

and he gave them a brief account of the naval victory
ch.xv1] THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES 267

gained by Commodore Dance with a squadron of East
Indiamen, over a French fleet under the command of

Admiral Linois. He also prepared and read a paper
before the Geographical Society on the discovery of

New Guinea, and    was busy preparing     details for  his
" Life of Admiral                        transcribing  the
                   Fairfax," as well as

Life of Koolemans Beynen,* which his wife had tran

slated from the Dutch.

In the midst of all this work, with the enormous
amount of research which it entailed, Markham was

called away to Devonshire by news of the death of his

father-in-law, Mr. Chichester; and for some time his

attention was much occupied with family affairs.

   It was about this time that he was approached by

the Liberal political agent at Taunton with a view of

his standing for that constituency. Markham, however,

did not consider that the prospects of winning the seat

were at all favourable, so he declined the honour.
The House of Commons was the loser ; for he would have

made an excellent member and an interesting and strong

debater. Shortly afterwards, he was invited to stand in the

Liberal interest for Portsmouth. It was a constituency

that he would have been very glad to represent, not only

on account of its importance and his own associations

with the borough, but chiefly, perhaps, because of his
great-uncle's political connection with it for so many

years .f Portsmouth was at the time represented by

two Conservatives. It seems that Markham 's principal

reason for declining the honour was because he was

informed that, on the Primrose Day prior to the election,

the great majority of the workmen in the dockyard

(which formed a large proportion of the electors) were
decorated with the Conservative emblem, a bunch of

primroses, in their buttonholes. From this he inferred

that there would be small chance of his winning the

seat. As it turned out, however, the two Liberal

* A young and enthusiastic Dutch naval officer who accompanied
Allen Young in the Pandora in 1876.
                                     f See p. 256.
268 THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES [ch. xv1

candidates were both returned ! Markham had not

taken into account the inconsistency of dockyard

electors.
   Towards the end of the year (1884) he had a long

interview with the Secretary of the London Chamber
of Commerce, who came to him on his own initiative,

to discuss the possibility of arranging a conference
between the Chamber and the Council of the Royal
Geographical Society with a view to establishing a
policy on certain Central African questions bearing on
a systematic geographical exploration of that country.
Markham explained in detail his views on the question,
and after some discussion it was agreed that the Chamber
of Commerce should address a letter to the President
of the Society, outlining a policy on the lines that
Markham had indicated. This was accordingly done,

and the result was most satisfactory.
   Another of his activities at this time was the forma

tion, in co-operation with some of his neighbours, of an
institution or club near St. Gabriel's Church, Warwick
Square, for the use of young boys up to the age of
eighteen. The result of this was a great success, and
assisted very materially in keeping the young fellows
out of harm's way, as well as providing for their com
fort and pleasure after their work for the day was
over. Candidates for the institute were proposed and

elected by the boys themselves, each member paying
a monthly subscription of 6d. Four large rooms in
the parish school-house were placed at their disposal.
One was set apart for reading, another for chess and other
quiet games, while the remaining two rooms were used
for gymnastics, boxing, fencing, and games of a more
physical and boisterous character. The rooms were
filled every evening with boys whose happy faces,
brimful of enjoyment, bore witness to their pleasure.

It is hardly necessary to add that Markham 's contribu

tion to their enjoyment in the shape of lectures, both

interesting and amusing, was no small one.
ch. xv1] THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES 269

   He was never more happy than when he was
engaged in ministering to the happiness of children,
more especially boys, as many a youthful relative or
friend can testify. The appearance at his house of
any of his nephews, any cadets from the Worcester or
midshipmen of the Royal Navy or mercantile marine,
was the signal for the cessation of all work. His books
would be immediately closed, his papers put away,
all cares forgotten; and, after administering to their
appetites, he would wander away with them to spend
the rest of the day in the pursuit of amusement com
bined with instruction.

   The next year (1885) saw him busily engaged in
writing the Memoirs of the Macdonalds of Keppoch.
He also began collecting material for a Life of Admiral
Fairfax; and, in order to complete his researches, he
decided to visit Fairfax County in Virginia, U.S.A.
William Fairfax, the ancestor of the American Fair
faxes, had settled in Virginia, where many of his
descendants were still living.

   This William Fairfax had a somewhat varied career.
He began life in the Royal Navy, but afterwards
went to the Bahamas, where he became Judge, and
eventually Governor. In 1725 he migrated to the
United States, acting as agent there for the estates
of his cousin, Lord Fairfax. His son, the Rev. Brian
Fairfax, succeeded to the title as the eighth Lord Fairfax.
William was an intimate friend of George Washington,
and was one of the chief mourners at the great President's
funeral.

    On the occasion of this visit to America, Markham
was accompanied by his wife. They had a pleasant
voyage across the Atlantic, during which he took the
lead in organising entertainments, such as theatricals,
charades, etc. Some of these were carried out under

his management on a somewhat pretentious scale. A

regular stage was erected on the upper deck, scenery
was painted, and everything was conducted in a most
270 THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES [ch. xv1

elaborate manner. Rehearsals and the making of their
costumes kept them busily occupied for two or three

days prior to the performance. It was a great success,

and a considerable sum was realised on behalf of the

widows and orphans of those employed by the steam
ship company to which the vessel belonged. Other

entertainments followed when the weather permitted,
among them being an Arctic lecture which Markham
delivered; and a competition in "graceful walking," for
which he and another passenger were selected as judges.
Altogether they were a very merry party, and the time

passed quickly and pleasantly.
   Markham and his wife were, of course, provided with

many letters of introduction, and they received a very
cordial welcome at all the places they visited. This
kindly reception, however, was not only due to the
letters which they brought, but because his name in
connection with geographical work was well known and

honoured in the United States.
   From Boston they travelled through Portland, and

across the White Mountains, enjoying the magnificent
scenery through which they passed, on their way to Lake
Champlain and the Catskills. Thence down the Hudson

River to New York. It was a most enjoyable journey,

rendered all the more delightful by the interesting people
whom they met. The President and other members
of the American Geographical Society entertained them
most hospitably; and, at the Naval Academy at Anna
polis, he was invited to preside at a meeting when a
paper was to be read by Lieutenant Danenhower,
relating his experiences while employed in De Long's
ill-fated expedition to the Arctic Regions in the JeannetU.
This had an additional interest for Markham, for the
JeannetU (which left her timbers in the Far North) was
none other than his old friend Allen Young's vessel,
the Pandora, renamed ! He gladly accepted, and took
a leading part in the discussion that ensued. He was
quite in his element, and perhaps enjoyed it all the
ch.xv1] THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES 271

more because his views on the best route for future

Arctic exploration differed considerably from the
opinions expressed by other speakers !

   In Washington he had an interview with the President
(Grover Cleveland) at the White House. He was able
also to collect much information here, regarding the
Fairfaxes, from many members of that family and their
friends. Thence they went on to Virginia, where they
spent two or three weeks, being hospitably entertained
in Richmond, Lexington, Mount Vernon (situated in
Fairfax County), and other places in the State. They
also visited Greenway Court in the Shenandoah Valley,
which was formerly the seat of the old and eccentric
Lord Fairfax who had bequeathed it to his nephew;
he, in his turn, bequeathing it to a friend, a Mr. Carnegy.
At the time of the Markhams' visit it was in the posses
sion of Mr. and Mrs. Kennerly (descendants of Mr.
Carnegy), who were most kind and hospitable, and from
whom he obtained much valuable information re
garding the Fairfax estate and family. Mrs. Kennerly
presented them with an old ballad relating to the first
arrival of George Washington at Greenway Court, in
which an allusion is made to his having been sent there
to be instructed in venery by the old Lord !

   Altogether their visit to the South was in every way
a success; they made many delightful friends, and,
following the track of the war, were eye-witnesses of
the ravages it caused in the beautiful valley of the
Shenandoah. Markham was much impressed by the
Virginians themselves, who, he said, resembled English
gentlefolk in their manners and feelings more than any
other people he had met in America. He maintained

that, if there was any difference between them and the
English, it was that they had retained more of the old-

fashioned courtesy of the days of our grandfathers.
Their war record in the defence of their own country
against invasion was most glorious ; but still more strik

ing, in his opinion, was the splendid way in which the
2 72 THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES [ch. xv1

young men, after their country had been utterly

crushed, manfully set to work to face adversity and
regain prosperity. None remained idle; all put their

shoulders to the wheel, and set themselves steadfastly

to redeem the past, in spite of the fact that they had been

brought up to lives of ease and affluence.
   On the eve of his departure from America, he sums

up the work   w" hIichhavhee  had accomplished there in these
brief words:
                              seen the people I came to see;
I have done all I wanted ; and we have both had a most

enjoyable trip."
Immediately on his return to England he set to work

to write an account of the Battle of Towton for the

oYcocrukpsiheidrewAitrhchhaieso"loLgiifceal   Association ; he was also busily
                                             of Admiral Fairfax," and collect

ing notes concerning the Vere family, for his contem

plated work on the lives of the two brothers Sir Francis

and Sir Horace Vere. He was also much occupied with

his geographical work, more especially in organising a

series of schemes for promoting the general teaching of

geography.

These various and absorbing duties did not in any

way distract his attention or time from his two pet

training ships, the Worcester and the Conway. Indeed,
it is doubtful whether he would have allowed anything,

however important, to interfere with the interest he

took in the welfare of those two schools. He delivered

lectures to the cadets on subjects connected with the

Western Coast of South America and other countries,

especially those possessing extensive coast-lines, ports,

and other sheltered anchorages. It was his aim to make

them familiar with places they would probably visit

during their professional careers, and to impart to them

such geographical knowledge as would be of value to

them in the future. He also assisted in the periodical ex

aminations held in the two institutions, and in awarding

marks in those subjects in which he was an acknowledged

authority.
ch. xv1] THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES 273

Being now desirous of obtaining further information

regarding the two Veres, he planned and carried out,

in company with his wife, a delightful trip to Belgium

and Germany which enabled him to visit the locality of the

operations rendered memorable by the campaign of Prince

Maurice of Orange against the Italian General Spinola,

who was in command of the Spanish forces. It also gave

him an opportunity to carry out his doctor's directions

--namely, to go through a cure at Homburg for gouty

symptoms that were beginning to manifest themselves.

A visit to Mannheim was of special interest and im
portance, for it was at the battle fought in this neigh

bourhood that the Dutch Army was saved by the heroism

and generalship of Sir Horace Vere. The fact that,
among the Captains serving under Sir Horace Vere,

were William and John Fairfax and Robert Markham,
lent additional zest to his researches.

   From Mannheim he proceeded to Dusseldorf and

Cologne. At the latter place he spent a couple of days of

busy sight-seeing. The vastness and perfect symmetry

of the cathedral, he records, did not leave the same

deep impression on him, or create the same desire to

see it again and again as did the smaller and less regular

cathedrals that he had visited in England and in France.

Thence they went on by Worms and Heidelberg to

Homburg, where for a month he drank with scrupulous

regularity the particular waters prescribed by the medical

authorities.   period  of  his  "  cure  "  he  made  excursions
   During the

with his wife to many places of interest, and his pen

was never idle. He tabulated all the German Emperors

from Charlemagne to Francis II., and, inspired by

the series of portraits of these Emperors, that he had

seen at Frankfort, he compiled a list of all their burial-

places ! He also studied carefully, and made extensive

notes on the ancient histories of the various places

that he visited, and illustrated them with admirably
drawn plans and maps. His description and history,
         274 THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES [ch. xv1

            of the old Roman Camp at Saalburg, is especially
            interesting, every small detail being recorded with
             minute exactness.

               On his return to England he found that an old naval
            friend of his was in serious pecuniary difficulties owing
           to the defalcation of a clerk. His friend at the time
            was holding the position of secretary to a benevolent

          institution, and was threatened with dismissal if he
           did not at once make good the deficiency, a matter of
           about £270. To be dismissed from his post would

            involve utter ruin, yet he had not the money wherewith
           to make good. In his dilemma he turned to his old
            friend Markham, who was not, it must be said, over
            burdened with the riches of this world. Nevertheless,
            Markham did not hesitate for one moment. He wrote
           at once to his bankers, sold out the requisite amount of
            stock, and sent his old friend away happy and grateful.
            The incident is typical of the man.

              An exhibition was held about this time at St. Stephen's
            Hall, Westminster, to celebrate the tercentenary of the
            introduction of the potato into this country. Markham
            took a leading part in all the arrangements, and read
            a paper on the cultivation of the potato by the Incas
            and other Andean nations.

               He had now been Secretary of the Hakluyt Society
            for a period of twenty-eight years, and he felt that if
            he were to relinquish the appointment he would have

              more leisure to translate and edit a greater number of
             books and documents than he had hitherto been able to
             accomplish. Accordingly, he handed over the archives
             to his successor, with full instructions as to his duties.
             Under his secretaryship the Society had grown in useful
             ness and prosperity to an amazing extent. There can
             be no doubt that this was very largely due to the con
             tinued energy, devotion, and inspiring influence, of

           Clements Markham. In thus resigning the post of

             Secretary his interest in the Society did not in any way

           abate --in fact, it appeared to increase in usefulness and

-

                 4
ch.xv1] THE U.S. AND THE WEST^INDIES 275

in enhancing the popularity of the Society. Even at

the time of his death he was actually correcting the

proof-sheets of a couple of volumes that he had translated

and edited.

   In the early part of 1887 began a renewal of his
intimate association with his old profession, the Royal

Navy, which brought him many new friends and ad
mirers, especially among the younger officers of His
Majesty's Service. It happened in this wise :

A near relative of his, to whom he had filled the

position of an elder brother for many years, had been

appointed, with the rank of Commodore, to the com

mand of the training squadron, and his broad pendant

was flying in H.M.S. Active. The Squadron included

three other vessels of a somewhat similar class to the
Active -- namely, the Volage, Rover, and Calypso, and

had been specially formed for the purpose of training

young officers and men in the Royal Navy. The ships

selected were fully rigged, and when at sea were continu

ously under sail. It was thought that the exercise

incidental to going aloft and working the sails would

benefit the men physically, and would also tend to make

them smart and active. The ships were, of course,

provided with steam-power, but it was very seldom

resorted to. The propellers were fitted with an arrange

ment for lifting them out of the water, and the funnels

could be lowered out of sight when necessary. In short,

the vessels were to all intents and purposes sailing ships.

Markham left England in January, by the mail-

steamer bound for the West Indies, whither the squadron

had preceded him by some weeks. He had to change

steamers  a"t   Barbados,  but this he did    not  regret, for
he found       the chirpy  little Captain of  the  new vessel

a great improvement on the surly old brute of the last

ship !" The day after leaving Barbados he picked up

the squadron at Grenada, and he was soon comfortably

settled down on board the Active.

  It is hardly necessary to say that he rapidly made
276 THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES [ch. xvJ

friends with all on board ; and he lost no time in visiting

the other ships, so that he quickly became acquainted

with every officer in the squadron, and they with him.
It was not long before he knew the history of every man
on board the Active, and he took a lively interest in
everything appertaining to the squadron. In the gun
room, of course, he was an especial favourite; and he
was looked upon as a sort of oracle on all matters,

more especially those connected with history and geo

graphy. Any discussion that was raised, any knotty
point that required a decision, was at once referred to

him.

He loved being on deck when exercises or evolu

tions were being carried out, especially on those occa
sions when it was blowing hard, and the men were

engaged in reefing topsails or otherwise reducing sail.

It reminded him so vividly, he would say, of bygone
days ; and probably it gave a half-melancholy yet wholly

pleasurable tinge to his delight in feeling the fresh trade-

wind blowing once more upon his face.

c"aTbInhine,thweFiogforhkrteiinnngogonaswVeahryeeswa,"touhwldishisle"it  in a  corner of the  f"oroer-
                                                                         Life  of Columbus

                                                                         a dozen midshipmen

were occupying the remainder of the cabin, under the

tuition of the Naval Instructor. Not infrequently the

latter would be absent temporarily. Then, chaos

reigned supreme, and would continue until summarily

put a stop to by the Commodore, or other high official.

Although it would not be fair to assume that their guest

was the instigator of these somewhat irregular disturb
ances, yet it was generally conceded that there was

never any cause to complain of their unseemly conduct

when they were entirely by themselves ! He loved

the midshipmen, and they loved him ; there was nothing

that gave him greater pleasure than being with them

in the gunroom mess, or going for a trip with them

either on shore or on some boat expedition.

Markham thoroughly enjoyed cruising among the
ch. xv1] THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES 277

beautiful West Indian Islands, most of them of great

historical interest.   For   tjhoeurngaulisd--ancaen  of the midship
men in writing up     their                           important duty,

as marks are given on this subject when they present

themselves for examination as Lieutenants, and a good

or bad journal may make all the difference in the class
of certificate obtained --he composed at St. Lucia an

account of Rodney's glorious victory there, and subse

quently wrote descriptions of the famous Diamond Rock

off the island of Martinique, the manner in which the

guns were hoisted up and placed in position, and the

capture of Fort Royal in 1 794.
   Markham was much impressed with the marked

superiority of the towns and farms in the French

islands of Martinique and Guadeloupe, over the towns

of the English West Indian possessions. They ap

peared to be cleaner, the architecture of their cathedrals,

churches, and public buildings, was superior, their

prosperity more pronounced, and everything more

regular and thriving in appearance, than in our islands.
There is no doubt that this is the case, and it is probably

due to the fact that absentee landlords are unknown

in the French islands, and that where the money is
made, there it is spent.

During this cruise nearly all the islands comprising
the Windward Group of the West Indies were visited,

several days being spent at each, and sometimes more

than one port in the same island was visited.

   It was at St. Kitts that Markham first became ac

quainted with Robert Falcon Scott, at that time a

midshipman on board the Rover. A boat-race had been

arranged, and a prize offered by two of the Lieutenants

of the Volage. The boats were to be cutters manned

by their proper service crews, with their own officers

in charge. The conditions were that they were all to

be at anchor together in line abreast, with their awnings

spread, and the crews sitting on their proper thwarts.

On the signal gun being fired, they were to furl awnings,

                                                      19
278 THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES [ch.xv1

weigh anchors, step masts, and make sail, beating up
to a buoy dead to windward. Having rounded this,
they were to run down to another buoy, beat back

again to the first mark, then down mast, out oars, and

pull back to the starting-point, anchor, and spread
awnings. The winning boat was the Rover's cutter,

commanded by young Scott, who in after-years was

to be so intimately associated with Clements Markham

in the work of Antarctic exploration.

Markham was always intensely interested in the

evolutions and manoeuvres of the squadron. He was

"escpheacsieally"   delighted    when the     signal was  hoisted to
                   in a certain  direction,  which means  practically

a race along the course indicated. Each ship would

set every possible sail she could carry, compatible with

safety, in order to get ahead of her consorts. He
always used to say it was the prettiest sight imaginable.

Such a race would last generally for about ten or twelve

hours.

  At Barbados the squadron remained for three weeks

before sailing for England, during which time Markham

thoroughly enjoyed himself. As usual, he was happiest

when, in company with half a dozen or more midship

men, he was engaged in carrying out some expedition

which they had organised into the interior of the island.

On one occasion he says they obtained a number of

squibs

" which caused some anarchy during the homeward
drive. S. was practising with a lasso on the Coachman's
hat, so someone took off his cap and threw it into the
road, and S. had to jump out and pick it up. The
carriage drove on with S. in chase 1 Eventually he
overtook the carriage and rolled in. They had 1nde
pendent singing and noise, concluding by drinks on
arrival at Br1dgetown."*

   Evidently a somewhat unruly and riotous party !
From this drive Markham returned to Government

         * Bridgetown, the chief town and seaport of Barbados.
ch. xv1] THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES 279

House, where he was staying, in order to be present at

a large official, and presumably decorous, dinner. It

must have been in somewhat striking contrast to his

afternoon's amusement !
    During his spare and quiet intervals, he wrote an

account for the midshipmen of the discovery and first
settlement of Bermuda, as also a history of the discovery
of the Windward Islands by Columbus, the Life of
Gerard Mercator, and a paper on the physical geography
of Bermuda. His thoughts were invariably with the
young officers; their happiness and well-being were his
constant care. He was anxious to get them interested
in their profession, and to induce them to take up the
study of geography and other subjects which would be
of value to them in their future career. Of one of his

particular midshipmen, S. (alluded to above), he
writes:

   " He has lost a month's time for throwing potatoes
and valves at the Naval Instructor in his last ship,
and he was also in trouble at Barbados for knocking
two front teeth down a Lieutenant's throat with the
mast of the dinghy. Poor boy !"

   His sympathies were evidently with the " boy,"
and not with those who had been the sufferers from

the lad's aggressive propensities !
    From Barbados the squadron proceeded to Bermuda,

a voyage occupying about ten days, and made almost
entirely under sail. Markham had been for some time
working in collaboration with the gunroom officers in the
production of a play which they intended should be per
formed shortly after their arrival. To him was allotted
the greater part of the task, and on their arrival at
Bermuda his first business, on landing, was to purchase

various dresses --principally ladies' attire--and other im

portant stage properties that would be required. How
ever, as a stay of only four days was made at Bermuda,
the performance had to be postponed ; but it was acted
eventually with great success at sea. The topical
280 THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES [ch. xv1

songs were the subject of much discussion, and constant

revisions were made at every rehearsal. Some con

sidered many of the jokes were a great deal too personal ;
others thought otherwise : it was no easy matter to please

and satisfy everybody ! Markham was not only the

principal author of the play, but he also had to take a

leading part in it, and, in addition, was stage-manager !
He entered heart and soul into the matter, and it is not

too much to say that without him it would never have

taken place.

Boisterous weather was somewhat detrimental to

rehearsals. For two or three days they experienced

an extremely fresh gale, accompanied by a very heavy

sea. The table in the fore-cabin broke adrift, and they

were obliged to eat their dinner sitting on the deck

and hanging on to the stanchions 1 Meals were reduced

to picnics. One of the ships in the squadron had two

boats washed away, the others escaped with little
damage, but all suffered great discomfort. In spite
of the excessive motion, Markham wrote during this

gale an historical account of the Azores for the benefit

of the young officers.
   On the 24th of April, 1887, the squadron anchored in

Horta Bay (Fayal), but sailed again the next day,

giving Markham time, however, to take a run on shore

and identify the ground which was occupied by Sir

Walter Raleigh when he captured Horta. He also

enjoyed a delightful ramble over the hills, and climbed
up to the summit of Mount Carneiro. Of course he

wrote an account of Raleigh's capture of Horta for the
information of the midshipmen. That was inevitable !

Taking advantage of a fine evening, with a compara

tively smooth sea, they decided on having their
theatricals on the 27th of April. An excellent stage

was prepared on the quarter-deck, and every man and

boy in the  ship, that could be  s"paTroeod  from his duties,
attended.   The piece was named              Clever by Half."
It was in three scenes, and was so abundantly stocked
ch. xv1] THE U.S. AND THE WEST INDIES 281

with  asson"gssertihoa-ctomiticw."as     described     as  " operatic,"  as
well                                   Markham              the part of  an
                                                     took

irascible gouty old Baronet, and acted it to perfection.
Everything went off very well, and it was a great

success. The performance was followed by a somewhat

uproarious supper in the wardroom, at which the afore

mentioned S. sat between Markham and the Captain

of Marines. Whenever S. began to get unduly excited,
the latter seized his head and forced it under the table,

s"oAtlihcaet's  S.   afterwards  said  he felt like the Dormouse in
                    Adventures    in   Wonderland," when sitting

between the March Hare and the Hatter !

   The squadron arrived at Portland on the 9th of May,
and Markham left the next day, to the great regret

of all on board the Active. He was pulled on shore in

one of the cutters by a crew composed entirely of

officers. He concludes his diary in the ship as follows:

" Last day on board the Active, where I have passed
14 weeks        Ianhdop5e,dasyosm, ea  most happy    and delightful  time,
making,                                friendsh1ps.   I never met    nicer,

better- naturea, more warm-hearted young fellows. God
bless them !"

   Mention must be made here of an instance of hisit,

generosity, which has only recently been brought toa
the writer's notice. One of the midshipmen had the

misfortune to run into a boat at one of the islands,

causing considerable damage to and, very stupidly,
omitted to report the accident to his commanding
officer, or even to give his name to the harbour-master
when requested to do so. An official complaint was
made by the Governor to the commanding officer of
his ship, and an investigation was ordered. The result
was that the midshipman received severe reprimand,
and was ordered to pay £4, the cost of the repairs to
the boat. Markham promptly proved himself the friend
in need, for with consummate tact, and in the most
delicate way, he succeeded in arranging that the costs

should be borne by himself.
                CHAPTER XVII

         WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON

On his return to England after his long cruise in the

training squadron, Markham's time was fully occupied

in clearing off the enormous mass of work that had

accumulated during his absence in the shape of in

numerable letters, and legal matters in connection with

his trusteeships. In addition he was much worried by

his old enemy, gout, which persistently attacked him at

inconvenient periods, particularly when he was most

anxious to be unrestrained and able to move about.

His trip in the Active was but a prelude to many

others. Indeed, only a few weeks after his return from

the West Indian cruise, we find him again occupy

ing his old quarters on board the Active cruising in the

Channel, visiting various ports in England and Ireland,

and even going as far as Gibraltar and Madeira. A few

of his old friends had left in order to complete their

examinations at Greenwich and at Portsmouth, but many

still remained in the squadron, and the new officers

soon became old friends. It is related that on one

occasion he remained on deck during the entire

middle watch (from midnight to 4 a.m.) because one
of his special friends was officer of the watch, and, as

he was very tired after a hard day's cricket on shore,

Markham stayed up with him so as to prevent him from
                        ownatc"hIn! caItCwivaislisoantiotnh,i"s
going to sleep  in his                                           cruise   that
he began his    work                                              and    com

menced   to edit and   prepare for  Mpauubrliyc,atiaounthMorrs.oCf or"biTnh'se
Life of   her father,    Captain

Physical Geography of the Sea." During his stay at

                        282
ch.xvn] WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON 283

Madeira, he made a point of visiting the old haunts
of his brother David, and of making acquaintance with
those friends, still in the island, who had been kind to
his brother during his last illness.

   On the 31st of January, 1888, after much anxious
consideration, and consultation with his friends, he
decided to relinquish the position he had held for
twenty-five years as Honorary Secretary of the
Royal Geographical Society, and wrote a letter to the
President to that effect. The letter was couched in
such terms as rendered it impossible for the President
to do otherwise than accept it. But, in order that the
Society might not altogether lose his active help,
Markham was made a member of the Council. At the
same time he was awarded the Founder's gold medal
in recognition of the valuable geographical work he
had accomplished during his period of office as Honorary
Secretary. The present prosperous state of the Society
is due in a great measure to his personal influence, and
to his long official connection with the institution. As
has been truly said of him by one of the high officials
of the Society in his excellent obituary notice of Sir

Clements :

    " He kept himself in close touch, not only with what
may be called the Society's external activit1es, but with
its internal organisation, in which he took a proud
interest. By his friendly, genial, and considerate
relations with every member of the staff, he secured
their loyal devotion, not only to himself, but to the
Society, so that the hardest work in carrying out the
Society's objects and in maintaining its reputation
 became a pleasure, and not a task. He took a special
 interest in the younger members of the staff, who were
 ever eager to obtain his approval."

    We are told on the highest authority that one of his
 most important successes at that time was the founda
 tion and issue of the monthly Proceedings, afterwards
 to be developed into the present Geographical Journal,
 which may now be regarded as the leading geographical
   284 WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON [ch. xvn

   publication in the world. Markham had also been most
   energetic in the promotion of geographical education,
   as we have already stated; and he was the first to in
   troduce the use of lantern slides as a means of illus

   trating the lectures that were delivered. This met
   with some short-sighted opposition at first, but is now

   generally approved and regarded as a valuable adjunct.

      At the great naval review held at Spithead in cele

   bration of Queen Victoria's Jubilee, he was again an
   honoured guest on board the Active. Shortly after, he

   presided on board the Worcester at the annual meeting
   and presentation of prizes, and delivered an admirable

   address to the cadets.  the " Life  of Captain  Maury "
      The work of editing

   he found extremely tiresome and intricate, causing him

   much labour. The task of connecting the narrative

   from the letters that had been submitted to him proved

   to be harder than he had anticipated. In fact, he had
   to evolve order out of chaos. Yet in the midst of all

   this work he found time to write a history of Madeira for

   one of his young naval friends, and an account of the
   Battle of Lansdowne for another, besides contributing

   descriptions of the various ports along the coast of
   Spain visited by the training squadron, which he
   thought would be useful to the young officers.

      At this time he was beginning seriously to consider the

   necessity for Antarctic research, and therefore the indis-
   pensability of educating public opinion in that direction.

   Accordingly, he wrote a long article on the subject for the
   Graphic. He then visited the Agent-General of Victoria,
   in order to consult him as to the popularity or otherwise
   with which a proposal for such an expedition would be
   received in Australia. He also worked up the whole
   history of South Polar exploration, with all that had
   hitherto been achieved geographically in South Polar

   Regions.

      In the early part of 1 888, he accompanied the training
   squadron on another cruise to the West Indian Islands,

V

   OL^>'
ch. xvn] WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON 285

returning to England by way of Bermuda. Many changes

had taken place among the young officers, which he did
not apparently appreciate, for he writes :

   " As compared with the glorious old crowd of last

          the m1dshipmen are smaller, weaker, more quiet,
Jreesasr,up to larks, more good : and not a patch on the old
set !"

   Nevertheless, he  was soon on as  intimate                                       t"eromlds  with
his new shipmates    as he had been  with the                                                  set."

He was always ready to give them information and

practical help, to associate himself with all their games,

and to listen to all their troubles and grievances, which

they, on their part, were only too ready to pour out

into his sympathetic ears. He was very irate at recent

orders that had been issued regarding increased school

h"" ohcurararsmasmfsoienrdgth"efaomlglyirde.s"ahtipdmeHaeeln,totohaonmudgu,hcthas,  he terms it, other

                                                                                    they were being
                                                                                    and that they were

left with insufficient time to themselves for reading.

On the passage home from Bermuda they encountered

very stormy weather, with an unusually low barometer,

and the ships were reduced to close-reefed topsails.

The sea was magnificent, torrents of spray blowing

in sheets from wave to wave, the ship heeling over in

heavy lurches as much as 420, dipping her lee hammock

nettings under water.    But, in  tshpeite"                                         of the  meaxncieascssive"
motion and the dirty   weather,                                                     young

(as he calls the midshipmen) played at tip and run,
the bucket which was used as a wicket flying across

the deck at every lurch of the ship ! During the gale

he was engaged in drawing up a careful pedigree of the

Kings of Aragon !

On his return home he found that his Life of the

Veres was published, and had been well reviewed, which
gave him great satisfaction. In reading it over, it

brought back to him brighter reminiscences than any
other book that he had written, for it recalled vividly

the pleasant pilgrimages he had made with his wife
286 WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON [ch. xyn

ttoheol"d fitgohwtninsginVeHreoslla"ndh,adBseelgrviuemd., and Germany, where
   At the anniversary meeting of the Royal Geographical

Society on the 28th of May, 1888, Markham was pre
sented with the Founder's gold medal in a very apprecia
tive speech delivered by the President, General Strachey.
His incomparable services to the Society were also re
ferred to at the time by other speakers. He looked
upon the honour of becoming one of the Society's gold

medallists as the highest distinction that could be
conferred upon him. On the same day he was presented
with a very beautifully illuminated address, in the form
of an album, from the Captain, the staff, and the cadets,
of the Conway, as a slight recognition of all that he had
done for the ship, and for the great interest he had taken
in the welfare of the cadets. This was as unexpected
as it was gratifying.

   To his great delight, he was permitted to be present
on board the Active during the naval manoeuvres in
the summer. He was intensely interested in everything

that occurred, and keenly followed the whole plan of
campaign. The Active was attached to the squadron
selected for the defence of England against a foreign
foe located in Ireland. The first object of the defending
force was to blockade the hostile fleet, which, divided
into two squadrons, was taking refuge in two Irish
ports, one at the north, the other in the south. After
twelve days' successful blockade, a portion of the hostile
fleet succeeded in escaping from the southern port, and
effected a junction with their northern force. The
defending ships thereupon raised the blockade, and
steamed round to the mouth of the Thames to insure
the security of London, leaving the enemy to work hb
wicked will on Liverpool and other defenceless, but
important, seaport towns in the north.

   During all this time Markham was up early every
morning, and remained on deck until late at night,

criticising, as may well be imagined, every movement of
ch. xvn] WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON 287

the opposing forces, and taking the keenest interest in

every incident and phase of the manoeuvres. He was

much impressed with the value of such evolutions in

peace time, as being the means of illustrating defects,

more especially with regard to the provision of coal and

the supply of stores when the ships are away from their

principal bases. The arrangements for coaling were

execrable, considering the great importance of trans

ferring the coal from collier to ship in as short a time as

possible. As a rule the coal came alongside the ship
in bulk, which necessitated it being first placed in bags

in order to be hoisted out, thus doubling the time that

would have been occupied if the coal had been simply

put into the bags when taken on board the collier and

kept there. These were all valuable experiences, to be

placed before the naval authorities for future guidance.

    In the latter part of the year 1888 we find him again

on board the Active, enjoying a cruise in the Baltic,

and visiting such interesting places as Copenhagen,
Kiel, and Carlscrona. His intimate knowledge of all

these places was marvellous; and the greater part of

it was due to his study of books. It was invariably

his custom to read up all the information available

connected with places he was about to visit, and, with

his wonderfully retentive memory, he thus became a

most efficient guide and historical authority. At

Carlscrona, Baron Nordenskjold came all the way from

Stockholm to greet him. Admiral Von Otter and

Captain Koldewey, both authorities on Arctic matters
from personal experience, were also at Carlscrona; and

to  his great delight  he met  his old    SwCeodmismhodmoreess--ma"tea
of  the Collingwood,    now a    retired
dear old man with a nice old wife." At Copenhagen

also he met many old friends, who were kindness itself,

and always gave him a hearty welcome to their houses.

    On his return home he set to work to classify a large

and valuable collection of old coins that his father had

accumulated from time to time. The very fact of ex
288 WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON [ch. xvn

amining the different coins to ascertain their nationality
and date of minting aroused his interest in numismatics,
and he found it a study replete with instruction as well
as pleasure, for it had the effect of revivifying his

interest in ancient history, especially that of Greece

and Rome. By the time that he completed his tabula

tion of the coins, he imbibed an irresistible desire to

see with his own eyes the ancient remains that are
still left in Greece and Italy.

   With Markham, to decide was to act, and, putting all
literary and other work on one side, he started off in

the early spring of 1889, accompanied by his wife, on a

"lonLgifeviosfitSitro   Rome.  He had just completed writing a
                               Vane "; but
                       Harry                with this he  w" aist  by no
                               he candidly  admits that            is not
means satisfied, for

a good book,           nor is the book worthy  o"f  the   subject."
He was also            engaged in writing the       Life  of John

Davis," for a series on the world's great explorers.

In addition to this, he was busily engaged preparing,

at the invitation of the French Geographical Congress,

a paper on English geographical discovery during the

eighteenth century, which he was to read at the meeting

of the Congress at Paris in the following year. At the

same time he was preparing other works for the Hakluyt

Society.

   His visit to Rome was an interesting one. For five

weeks he was occupied with his researches. Even-

place of interest was not only visited, but clcsely studied
and minutely described. His descriptions are marked

by great erudition, and display profound historical

and archaeological knowledge. He was wont to declare

that the study of his old Roman coins, had taught him

much about ancient Rome. The topography of the

surrounding country he also studied carefully, and made

exact plans of the most celebrated features typical of

classical architecture.

   To a lover of Rome -- and especially Rome in its
ancient splendour and puissance --the contents of
ch. xvn] WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON 289

Markham's diary would be of intense value. On his
visit to the Tabularium, he remarks that its masonry

reminded him of the later Inca work at Cuzco, being of

the same dark colour, probably because they were con

structed of the same kind of volcanic conglomerate.

Among the statues of the old Roman Consuls in the

galleries of the Vatican, he recognised faces similar

to those on the obverse of his consular coins; and he

refers frequently to these coins in connection with the

pictures and statues that he saw, thus demonstrating

the powerful influence exercised by his collection in im

pelling him to undertake his visit to Rome. He was

much attracted by the old maps that were shown to

him in the Collegio di Propaganda, some of them dating

back to the early part of the sixteenth century; he

also saw some curious old Arab maps in which he was

intensely interested.

   After leaving Rome, they went to Perugia, Assisi, and

Florence. At the last-named place, in the Museum of

Natural History, he was shown many relics of Galileo,

among them an Arabic celestial globe made in a.d. 1080,

and Sir Robert Dudley's astrolabe, all of which were

naturally exceedingly interesting to him. They made

quite a long stay in Florence, living with some friends in

a delightful old villa, and of course spending their days

in visiting the various galleries, museums, churches, and

so forth, which abound in that delightful city.

From Florence they went on to Bologna and Parma,

with its wonderful  "coClolerrcetigognio  of Correggio's masterpieces.
He realised that                           cannot be known without

visiting Parma." His graphic descriptions are those

of a connoisseur and a lover of art. From Parma they

proceeded to Genoa, where they remained for a few

days, then on to San Remo, Marseilles, Lyons, Dijon,

and Paris, and thence home, where they arrived on the

7th of May. They had been absent for nearly three
months, and were rather sorry to return. One result

of the trip was the addition of several important
290 WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON [ch. xvn

Roman coins to Markham's already large collection,

also some Papal medals.

  Although he found the usual accumulation of work
awaiting him on his return to England, the pleasure of

another trip in the training squadron was irresistible,
and exactly four weeks after his arrival in England

we find him starting from Portsmouth for another

cruise to the Baltic. This time, however, he embarked

on board the Volage, a sister ship to the Active, which

latter had to be left behind for refit in Portsmouth

Dockyard.

   The reduced squadron (only three in number) as
sembled in the Downs on the 8th of June, sailing the

next day. Very dirty weather was experienced, and,

to add to the excitement, the Ruby (which had taken
the place of the Rover) had her jib-boom carried away,
and a man washed overboard ; fortunately he was saved,
although with difficulty. The squadron anchored off

Elsinore on the 13th of June, and Markham went on
shore with a party of officers, and took a drive along

the seacoast. It was a lovely moonlight night, and

the water was without a ripple. Numerous boats,

crowded with men, women, and children, were pulling

about and serenading the ships, as they passed. On
such a night the old Castle of Kronborg (a light in its
highest tower brilliantly reflected in the calm water)
was exquisitely beautiful.   Of course,               "MHarakmhalemt,"
the youngsters a complete    history of                                 gave
                                                                          and

many of them     remained    u"phiusnftailthleorn'gs  after  m" iidnndiuglhgtingin
the expectation   of seeing                           ghost

in his usual nightly promenade on the battlements !

Needless to say their vigils met with no success, although

their imaginative faculties were strained to the utmost

tension.

Copenhagen was reached the following day, and six

very pleasant and festive days were spent there.

Luncheon-parties, picnics, dinners, and other enter
tainments, to the English officers of the squadron --in

                                                                        A
ch. xvn] WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON 291

which Markham was, of course, included --were incessant.

The Minister of Marine, Admiral Ravn, invited all the
officers of the squadron to dine with him at Skodsborg.

At Copenhagen he had the pleasure of meeting old Dr.
Rink, a former Inspector-General of Greenland, also
Mr. Gamel, to whose munificence was due the despatch
of Dr. Nansen's expedition across Greenland. He was,

also, so fortunate as to meet Dr. Nansen himself, who

happened to arrive at Copenhagen at that time, on his
way to England, where he was to give an account of
his recent journey. This was Markham's first meeting
with the celebrated Norwegian traveller, an event
resulting in a long and close friendship between the two
men whose rare agreement as to the aim and object of
future Polar exploration resulted in much useful work
being undertaken in high latitudes.

    From Copenhagen the squadron proceeded to Stock
holm, reaching that place by the southern or Dalaro
Channel, and passing through fiords for a distance of
seventy-five miles. The banks for nearly the entire
distance were lined with crowds of people waving
handkerchiefs and flags and cheering enthusiastically.

It was exactly midnight, on a lovely calm night, when

 they anchored in the very heart of the city of Stockholm.
 Here the festivities were, if possible, of a more lavish
 character than at Copenhagen. There were dinner
 parties every night; a State dinner was given by the
 King ; excursions were made in every direction ; and there
 was always the Tivoli Gardens with which to wind
 up the evenings ! Baron Nordenskjold was kindness
 itself, devoting much of his time to taking Markham and

 some of the officers to the various museums and other
 public buildings in the city, and also to his private
 ohof u"seP,twolheemreysh.e"*showed Markham his valuable collection

     * A series of maps brought out by Baron Nordenskjold from the
 collection of the editions of Ptolemy which were used by the old
 navigators during the latter part of the fifteenth and sixteenth

  centuries.
292 WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON [ch. xvn

A day or two after the arrival of the squadron, the

King was pleased to give an audience to the Commodore

and the Captains of the ships, to which Markham was

also specially invited. The King, a tall handsome man

with a very pleasing expression, was in the uniform of
a Swedish Admiral. He conversed with all the officers,

and was especially civil and gracious to Markham, and

thanked him for  whiathvinhgisre"ndFearcesdimsiluechAtalablse."*assisItnantchee
to Nordenskjold

evening they all dined with His Majesty at the Drotting-

holm Palace. Markham, by the way, was not provided

with a Court dress, but His Majesty very considerately

said it might be dispensed with, and that he was to come

in his ordinary evening dress.
At six o'clock the guests embarked on board a small

steamer, and proceeded down the Malar Lake to the

palace. There were about seventy guests, all in full

uniform except Markham. The King spoke to each one

of his guests, who were drawn up in line as he entered

the reception-room accompanied by the Duke of Nassau.

The dinner was served in a room containing full-length

portraits of all the Sovereigns of Europe contemporary

with Oscar I.

On the following evening a large dinner party was

given by the British Minister in honour of the English

squadron, and to this Markham was of course invited.

The next afternoon, accompanied by two of his special

midshipmen friends, he set out to spend a couple of

days with Baron Nordenskjold at his country-house,

about forty miles from Stockholm. The house was

situated at the head of an arm of the Baltic, the sea

   * Xordenskj old's " Facsimile Atlas " was brought out by fasa
with the view of supplying students with specimens of the prints!
maps of the period of the Great Discoveries, so as to enable thee

to trace the development of geographical knowledge in academx

circles. The old navigators made use, in a great measure, of the

portolani charts, even after printed maps were introduced. The
portolani were brought into use by the Italians in about the ti»-

teenth century.
ca.xvn] WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON 293

coming up to within a few yards of the hall door, with

a jetty, boat-house, and bathing-place adjoining. The

ladies of the house were all dressed in the bright-coloured

Swedish costumes which are so picturesque and becom

ing. The day was spent in roaming through the forest

and sailing in a boat on the fiord, and at midnight they

all went out in the boat to listen to the echoes for which

this particular part of the coast is celebrated.

  The squadron left Stockholm on the 1st of July, and

proceeded to sea, steaming through the fiords in lovely

weather. On the 5th the ships anchored among the
granite islets about five miles from Gothenburg. No sooner

were the anchors down, than a party of officers with

Markham landed to make arrangements for visiting the

Falls of Troll-hattan. This they accomplished the follow
ing day, starting immediately after breakfast by train,

and arriving at about half-past one. The falls consist

of an immense mass of foaming water, but the general
scenic effect was somewhat marred by the number of

paper-mills that had been constructed along the banks
on either side of the rapids. However, it was all very

interesting. The next day was occupied in an expedition

to a place called Marstrand, to which the officers of

the squadron had been invited by Mr. Nordenfelt, the

inventor of the gun that bears his name. About forty

officers, including Markham, accepted the invitation,

and they were conveyed to Marstrand in a special

steamer. There they had a sort of picnic dinner
followed by a dance. Altogether it was great fun;

they did not return until long after midnight.

During his spare time on board, Markham was kept

"buLsiifley  employed in revising the proof-sheets   of   his
             of John Davis," and in writing up, for  the  in

formation of the midshipmen, various notes on the places

they had visited.

  The squadron left Gothenburg on the nth of July,

and arrived at Spithead on the 17th. Markham had
thoroughly enjoyed the cruise. He was adored by the

                                                     20
594 WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON [ch. xvn

officers, especially the younger ones, whose interests he

always had at heart. After dinner he invariably spent

the evenings in the gunroom until lights were extin

guished, when he went on deck, and passed the remainder

of the night in conversation with his young friends, and

sharing with them their midnight suppers of sardines

and cocoa !

The 1 st of August saw him again on board the Active,

having come down to Portsmouth to be present at the

naval review which had been arranged in honour of the

visit of the German Emperor ; and he had special permis

sion to remain on board during the naval manoeuvres

that were to  follow.    The review  took place on  the   5th.
   Next day   the fleet  weighed in  the forenoon.        was
                                                      It

blowing hard and there was a nasty sea. The Active

got away under topsails, accompanied by the two

squadrons of small cruisers that had been placed under

the orders of the Commodore.

Leith was reached on the 9th, and the squadron

was disposed to the best advantage for the protection

of the East Coast. From Leith, Markham paid two or

three visits to Edinburgh, and specially to the Forth
Bridge, which was not then completed. After visiting

Peterhead, Aberdeen, and other ports along the east

coast of Scotland, the Active went to Broughty Ferry,

and made that her headquarters for a few days, sending

out the fast cruisers to patrol the coast, protect friendly

commerce, and to give warning of the approach of hostile

ships. Nothing of interest occurred during the remain

ing days of the manoeuvres, and the Active returned to

Spithead on the 31st of August, whence Markham

returned home.
It must not be imagined that these trips at sea were

in any way a relaxation from his literary labours.

Wherever he went, he always took with him what

ever work he happened to be engaged upon, and
would devote to it every moment he could spare. All

the time he was at sea on this cruise in the Active, he
ch. xvn] WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON 29s

was busy correcting the proof-sheets of a chapter he

was contributing to the History of America, and also

of  "NoLordseCnasnktjaobldro'ss  book, besides finishing his translation
of                                "from the Spanish. He was likewise

busily occupied in writing a paper in which he analysed

the professions and birthplaces, and other matters of

interest connected with the history of the                       Jtuhdege"sRewghio
                                 I.        death -- i.e.,        CdeoluGmlobbuiss,""
condemned King Charles                to"  "LaTnradcfatalltuosf
cides." He also finished         his

and wrote the preface of his

for the Hakluyt Society. He possessed               the faculty of
being able to lay down his pen at any
--if wenhgeangeevderin                             moment --even

                         the elucidation  of some  abstruse problem
                        required by the    young   officers to go on

shore with them or to solve some knotty question, and

could resume at once the subject of his composition

from the point where he left off, even although many

hours may have elapsed before returning to his work !

    On this occasion he did not remain very long on shore.

On the 24th of September, only three weeks after his
return from the naval manoeuvres, we find him again

occupying his old quarters on board the Active, starting

on a cruise to the Mediterranean.

    He was now regarded by the officers as part and parcel

of themselves, and they felt that without him the

little squadron would have been incomplete. He it

was who pointed out to them all the places of interest

to be visited at the various ports at which the ships

called; he it was who arranged and organised all the

excursions that were made to places farther afield;

and it was always he who acted as their guide and

cicerone, the life and soul of the party, without whom,

they felt sure any enterprise would result in failure;

he was also the leader and organiser of all games and

entertainments improvised on board for the amusement

of the officers and men.

    Fine weather was experienced on the run to Cadiz

the ships constantly manoeuvring, and being exercised
   296 WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON [ch. rvn

   at tactics under sail, which interested him exceedingly.
   While at Cadiz they had an opportunity of visiting
   Seville, where he was shown the letter written by

   Columbus to the King of Spain , and saw many of Murillo s

   masterpieces. Markham's knowledge of the Spanish

   language was most useful, in addition to his encyclopaedic

   historical knowledge. From Cadiz they proceeded to

   Almeria; thence on to Cartagena, whence an excursion

   was made to Murcia. Their stay at Cartagena was

   somewhat curtailed by a telegram from the Admiralty

   ordering the squadron to proceed without delay tc
   Lisbon, in order to assist at the funeral of the late King

   of Portugal.

   The ships left the following morning, and proceedec

   at full speed (under steam) to Lisbon, which they
   reached in forty-eight hours. The flags and ensigns

   of the men-of-war in the Tagus were all at half-mast

   the yards of the ships were all topped as a sign of mourn

   ing, and a gun was fired from each ship every quarter

   of an hour day and night.

   On the arrival of the Duke of Edinburgh, the Acta*

   hoisted the English Royal Standard at the main. The

   funeral took place two days after the arrival of the

   squadron. Markham witnessed the      pHroecersesmioanrkfsr:om"   a
   house to which he had been invited.
                                                                   It

   was very long, but there was nothing of real interest

   except the very ancient gilded coaches and the n1nnus

   footmen."

   The Duke of Edinburgh came off to the Active fa-

   Church service the following day, and left for Englac:

   the next morning.

   From Lisbon, Markham made many excursions. H«

   visited such places as Cintra, Alcobaca and Batallu

   and wrote interesting descriptions of them all. Need

   less to add, he was always accompanied by a lam

   number of his naval friends. They drove past tk

   famous lines of Torres Vedras on the way to Alcobapa

\  and its twelfth-century Cistercian monastery, tbs

                                                                   I
ch.xvn] WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON 397

much disfigured and    used   as a military  b"arbraacttkl.e-fieNldex"t
morning they drove     on to   Batalha, the

where once the Portuguese routed the Spaniards.

Here is a place of pilgrimage for geographers, the tomb

of Prince Henry the Navigator, with its richly elaborate

detail and recumbent figure of the Prince--a memorial

as grateful to Markham in architectural effect as in

historic association.

Whenever their carriage was seen approaching the

villages through which they passed, the children would

fling themselves down on their knees and pray energetic

ally that the passengers might be charitable; then,
when it came close up, they would run after it cap in

hand, hoping that their prayers would be answered !

It was midnight before Lisbon was reached, and they

returned on board tired and happy.

   A few days later the squadron sailed for England,

the Active arriving at Spithead on the 10th of November.

Markham left for home the next day. It was with a

heavy heart that he went over the Active's side, for he

could not help feeling that, as there was to be a change

of Commodores, this would, in all probability, be his

last cruise in the squadron in which he had spent so

many happy days, and had made so many pleasant

friendships.
A fortnight after his return to England he was unani

mously elected to succeed Sir Henry Yule as Pre

sident of the Hakluyt Society. Colonel Yule, who

felt compelled to resign in consequence of ill-health,

had himself suggested Markham as his successor. No

better selection could have been made; no one took

a greater interest in the welfare of the Society, and

there was no one better acquainted with its require

ments, than Markham. None had done more to bring
it to its present state of usefulness; and during his

presidency, a post which he held for many years, no

one was at more pains than Markham to insure its

continued success and prosperity.
298 WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON [ch. rrn

   He was at this time hard at work on his " Life of

Richard III." The compilation of this book caused
him, probably, greater labour and research than any

other work he had written. He left no stone unturned
in his efforts to arrive at the true state of affairs during
that monarch's reign ; for he would never believe that the

King's character was such as Shakespeare has assigned

to him. He probed and sifted every incident connected
with the King that had been accepted by many authori

ties as historically correct, though there was much re

corded to the discredit and dishonour of that Sovereign.

He would write and rewrite chapters already completed

in order to make them as faithful as possible, as more
recent evidence was brought to light. Early in his life

he had been convinced that the statements put forward
by historians with reference to the change of dynasty

from Plantagenet to Tudor, detrimental to the former,

were absolute inventions, circulated by the followers

and upholders of Henry VII. solely for political pur
poses. The picture drawn by them of Richard III.

was, in his opinion, a travesty of the truth, and was a

grotesque caricature grossly opposed to his real character

as revealed by official records. He studied very care

fully all the chronicles relating to the subject, and the

works of all authors of repute who had written on this

particular topic during the last three centuries. The

knowledge thus obtained only served to further convince

him that Richard III. was a much maligned man. He

consulted the most eminent historians in England,

most of whom were inclined to agree with him, many

urging him very strongly to proceed with his investiga

tions, and to give them publicity. The result of his

"laRbiocuhrsardwasIII.p:ublHisihsedLifein   1906, under   the title  of
                                           and Character  "--eight   or

nine years after he had taken the work in hand, so
careful was he that it should not be brought out hurriedly

or without due and careful inquiry and investigation.

It is a fascinating book, and those who are interested
ch. xvn] WITH THE TRAINING SQUADRON 299

in the chain of reasoning by which Clements Markham

asserts the innocency of Richard in connection with

the crimes that have been ascribed to him, will find it

set forth in minute detail with Markham's usual his

torical accuracy.

   Another work    t"o   which he   was devoting   much of
his time was the        Tractatus  de Globis," by  the cele

brated mathematician, Robert Hues, which he was

editing, and in a great measure translating from the
Latin, for the Hakluyt Society. The first edition was

published in Latin in 1594, and was dedicated to Sir
Walter Raleigh. It gives a full description of the

globes, both terrestrial and celestial, as they were known

in those days. It explains their use and their construc

tion ; how to find the positions of the stars, the latitude

and longitude of places on the earth; how to observe

the meridian altitude of the sun, the variation of the

compass, and everything appertaining to the navigation

of a ship that was known at that time. Markham

wrote a long, interesting, and learned introduction to

this book, in which he traces the existence of globes to

a period anterior to the Christian era, the oldest, made of

metal, with the various heavenly constellations engraved

on them, being attributed to Arabian astronomers.

He was also very busy at this time making arrange

ments for the reception of Stanley on his return from

his famous expedition across the Dark Continent.

Indeed, Markham was never idle: he was always in

quest of knowledge, always engaged in literary pursuits,

yet always ready to hold out a helping hand to his

friends, or to devote his time to their entertainment

when they were able to come and see him in London.
               CHAPTER XVIII

           THE ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY

In the spring of 1890 Markham and his wife started
for a long tour in Sicily and Italy.

They crossed over the island to study the grand ruins

at Selinus and Girgenti. Syracuse crowned its fascina

tions by enabling him to add some rare coins to his

collection.

   From Syracuse they crossed over to Malta, and

stayed at Admiralty House on a long-promised visit

to their old friends, Sir Anthony and Lady Hoskins,

where they met anew many old naval friends. Return

ing, they paid quite a long visit to charming Taormina,

taking long walks in new directions every day.

One day Markham started by himself for a long walk

along the seashore. As he reached the sea, he met a

couple of small children running towards him in a terri

fied manner, as if flying from an enemy or some savage

animal. They entreated him to see them safely to

their home, which was situated some distance up the

hill, and  in  "thSeo,o"ppaosshitee sadyirse, c"tioI nhatdo  that   which he was
pursuing.                                                    to go  back the way
I came." An appeal from a child, especially when

frightened, was to him irresistible !

Taking the boat from Messina to Naples, they stayed

at Castellamare and spent long days exploring the ruins

of Pompeii and the surrounding country. Thence they

journeyed to La Cava, Amain, Paestum, and then home

by Rome and Paris.

The change of the Commodore in the training squadron,

after all, made little difference to Markham 's connection

                    300
ch. xvn1] ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY 301

with it; for shortly after his return from abroad he

went as the guest of the Captain of the Ruby on a

cruise to Christiania and back. They were away about

three weeks, quite long enough, however, for Markham

to make himself acquainted with the newly appointed

midshipmen in the various ships, and to make the usual

excursions. At Christiania, moreover, he saw a good
deal of his old friends, Dr. Nansen, Dr. Rink, Dr. Mohn,

and other distinguished Norwegian men of science.

On his return to England he found much fresh occu

pation  for his  pen. He completed                      a"n   article on  Peru
which   he was   invited to write for                        Chambers's    En

cyclopaedia," and also wrote monographs on Francisco

caonmd pGleotnezdalohisPiz"arLroifeforoftheRicsahmared  publication.    Having
                                                                      was dis
                                                          III.," he

satisfied with the conclusions he had arrived at, which

he thought would not be sufficiently convincing to the

general public or to historical experts. He therefore
set to work to condense what he had written, and to

bring the abridgment out as a lengthy essay in the

English Historical Review. By this means he hoped

to provoke criticism, and, by meeting it, to strengthen

the proof of his theory before publishing the book.

About this time he read a paper at the Royal United

Service Institution, on the importance to naval officers
of a knowledge of the origin and gradual development
of the various instruments used in their profession,

especially those dealing with navigation and nautical

astronomy. This object, he thought, might be attained

by establishing at Greenwich a collection of instruments

from the earliest known examples of the astrolabe,

quadrant, and sextant, besides books on navigation,

maps, charts, etc. The suggestion was well received,

and warmly supported by several distinguished naval
officers and others, but, alas ! nothing came of it.
In the Arctic section of the Naval Exhibition held at

Chelsea in 1891, he took a leading and active part.

He also contributed an article to the Nautical Magazine
302 ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY [ch. xvm

on the desirability of promoting the higher education
of officers in the mercantile marine.

   Among his many other activities at this time, he ac
cepted a seat on the governing board of the reformatory
ship Cornwall, stationed in the Thames at Purfleet, and
became a regular attendant at the board meetings.

   For some time he had been a martyr to gout, and this
at last necessitated periodical visits to Homburg and
Carlsbad to drink the waters. On the first of these
visits he succeeded in so arranging his journey to
Germany as to include places in Italy, Sicily, and other
parts of Europe, that he was particularly anxious to
visit.

   In Sicily he made many excursions, always accom

panied by his wife, making Palermo his headquarters
for exploration among the ancient ruins, such as Selinus,
Segesta, Solutum (the old Sela of the Phoenicians),
Trapani, and Nicolosi, invariably spending his last days
in Sicily at lovely Taormina, with which he was always

enchanted, and where he made many friends, especially
among the country-people, who still revere his memory.
He was much endeared to the children, who followed

him about wherever he went.

   His journal contains graphic descriptions of every
place he went to, giving elaborate details of the archi
tecture and decorations that still remained. He always

regretted that his time was so short ; for there were many
places at which "days might be spent very profitably
and enjoyably," which for want of time he was unable
to include in his itinerary. They succeeded, however,
in putting in a few days at the beautiful island of Capri.
Then through Italy into Germany, where he remained
for three weeks undergoing his cure for gout ; then home,
after an absence of four months.

   He was always a very active and leading member of
the Westminster School Decoration Fund Committee,

which had been formed for the purpose of placing the
coats of arms of old Westminster boys on the walls
ch. xvm] ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY 303

of the great hall, so as to preserve their memories in
perpetuity.* He also took great interest in, and rendered

much assistance to, the charitable organisation that

devoted itself to sending London boys of the working
class to the seaside during the summer months. Any
thing that had for its object the amelioration of the lot

of young people was sure to appeal to his generosity

and to evoke his sympathy.

His society was much in demand by his friends, not

only on account of his great learning (for he was truly
an animated encyclopaedia, and always ready to impart

knowledge to others), but also because of the great
charm of his personality. His was a most lovable

nature, always kind and sympathetic, always happy

and cheerful, and ready at all times to amuse others
or to take part in their sports and games. In country-

houses he was most welcome, for he was invariably

the life and soul of the party. On one occasion he

was staying at Oxford with an eminent historian
who was associated with that University. In the

evening a dinner-party was given in his honour, and

several learned and distinguished professors were in

vited, with their wives and daughters. After dinner

a lengthened debate ensued on some profound subject,

when someone suggested that they should adjourn to
                                                                                  to,
the  hall  anpdlaypeldayatga"mbees.an-Tbahgiss  w" ausnrteiladitilywaasgrteimede   to
and  they

go to bed. By a curious coincidence, the following

day, being Sunday, they went to St. Mary's to hear

the University sermon, in the course of which the

preacher strongly denounced the excessive devotion

of the present generation to the playing of games and

other amusements !

Markham was not disappointed at the sensation that

* It is gratifying to be able to announce that the school authori
ties have decided to add the coat of arms of Sir Clements Markham

to those of the  ionth"erscdhiosotiln."guished  and eminent old Westminsters
already painted
304 ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY [ch. xv1n

was created by the appearance of his article on

Richard III. in the English Historical Review, and at

the criticisms, many of them very antagonistic, that it
evoked. This was just what he wanted; but it gave
him great occupation in replying to them all, and in
sending a rejoinder to the magazine. At this time he

was also engaged in preparing a paper that he     had      "betehne
requested to write for the Hygienic Congress,     on

suitability of tropical islands and mountains for the
                   of Europeans." In      aodf dhitision"
permanent abode    notes for the writing                   he was
getting ready his
                                                           History

of Peru."

To add to this accumulation of work, he was now asked

ttohew"ritWeotrhlde'sLifGereoaft  Columbus for a projected series on
                                   Explorers," which he gladly con

sented to do.

To obtain all possible material at first hand, he visited

Genoa, where he was introduced to the President of

the Italian Geographical Society, who was also the

President of the Congress that was shortly to be held to

celebrate the fourth centenary of the departure of

Columbus from Spain, on his first voyage of discovery

to the West. From him Markham obtained many

details, and was put in the way of seeing various relics

and treasures of Columbus that otherwise he would

probably never have heard of. He was taken to the

old church of San Stefano, in which Christoforo had

been baptised. Hearing that an original portrait of

the great navigator was in a private house at Como, he

promptly went there, and had no difficulty in finding
the house, where he was most civilly received and shown

the picture. It represented a man of middle age with

an exceedingly fine head and a most prepossessing

appearance. The authenticity of this picture was

indisputable, for its owner informed Markham that it
had never left the family since it was painted !

On his return to England he gave several lectures

on board the Worcester, principally associated with
ch. xvm] ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY 305

geographical work, also on the physical geography of
the Eastern Archipelago in the Mediterranean. He
was much gratified to hear that the Corporation of
Liverpool had established at that port a municipal
navigation school for the instruction of young officers

belonging to the mercantile marine. It afforded him

no small pleasure to know that his exertions during the
past ten years to spread the teaching of navigation and
nautical astronomy in this country were at length

bearing fruit. At the same time he received official

intimation that he had been elected a Vice-President of

the Royal Geographical Society.
   Other projects which he was contemplating at this

time were papers for the Geographical Society on
Columbus (for which he had all the necessary data
already to hand); on Vespucci Amerigo, after whom
the great continent of America was named ; and Corte-
Real, a Portuguese navigator who is reputed to have
been the discoverer of Newfoundland and Labrador.
Heavy as this undertaking was, and demanding all
Markham's great powers of research, industry, and
skill in writing, still, at the same time, he was invariably
ready to tear himself away from his work in order to
give pleasure to his friends; though time so lost had
always to be made up by extra assiduity.

   Towards the latter end of the year (1892) we find him
again in the Mediterranean, this time as the guest of the
Rear-Admiral who was second in command of the
station, with his flag flying on board the Trafalgar.
On his way to join the ship, he had the disagreeable
experience of undergoing quarantine at the island of
Vido for four days, in consequence of the ship having
touched at Brindisi, which had been proclaimed an
infected port.

   On obtaining pratique he landed at Corfu for a couple
of days, and then went on to Patras, where he found
his cousin, Sir Edwin Egerton, who was British Minister
at Athens, had come to meet him. In his company
306 ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY [ch. xvm

he proceeded to Olympia, where he spent a few days

examining the ancient buildings laid bare by the

excavations, and the artistic treasures that had been

found, and are preserved in a Greek museum, con

structed in excellent taste, on the site. Markham was

fascinated with the symbols of antiquity that sur

rounded  him; and  he confessed  that  nvoisipteladce--snaoctreedvetno
ancient  memories  that he had   ever
the Incarial ruins in Peru-- had enabled him to visualise

the scenes of antiquity so completely as had Olympia.
Thence they travelled by Corinth on to Athens, where

he spent an exceedingly interesting fortnight under the

guidance of his friends at the British Legation, when

he was able to add largely to his ever-increasing col

lection of ancient coins. He was also afforded the

opportunity of visiting Mycenae and Tiryns, and other

interesting places.

   At Nauplia he joined the Trafalgar, and made ac

quaintance with all her officers. The entire Mediter

ranean squadron, consisting of ten large battleships,

with several cruisers and other auxiliary vessels, was

assembled here; it was a most imposing and formidable

fleet. He met many old friends, not only in the

Trafalgar, but in almost every ship in the squadron.

He was promptly made an honorary member of the ward

room mess, and was in constant demand by bis old

friends to visit them on board their ships, and also to

arrange and conduct the many excursions that were

made to historic sites.

   It was delightful to be with him on these occasions,

for he was thoroughly versed in the mythological

chronicles of each place visited, as well as in its actual

history; and to his charm of manner he added the gift

of awakening and imparting interest. Never was there
any risk of being bored in his society, and it was always

a great delight to listen to his stories and his quaint

and amusing way of telling them. The battlefields of

Thermopylae and Marathon were visited and thoroughly
ch. xvm] ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY 307

explored. In the famous pass at the former place they
read, on the pedestal erected to the memory of Leonidas
and his heroic followers, the famous inscription:

    & £tiv\ dyyikkuv AaKtSa1fWvlots ot1 rg8t
    Kt1/ttda toU Ktivwv prjiKur1 irt1OofLtvo1.

("  Stranger ! tell the Spartans that we  are  lying  here

    In obedience to their commands.")

    From Greece he visited Salonica, and several of the
islands in the Levant, including Thasos and Lemnos.
The former is the most beautiful and one of the most
interesting islands in the iEgean Sea; the latter is
perhaps the most uninteresting and unprepossessing
in appearance, but it has the advantage of possessing
a fine land-locked harbour. Here the annual fleet

regatta was held, an event in which Markham took

the greatest interest, more especially if his particular

friends were among the winning competitors. After

leaving Lemnos, the fleet steamed away to the south
ward, passing close to the islands of Lesbos, Chios,
Samos, and Cos, and anchored off the town of Budrum.
This was the ancient Halicarnassus, the birthplace of
Herodotus, and the site of the Mausoleum (one of the
accepted seven wonders of the world) erected by
Artemisia, the sister and wife of King Mausolus, who

died about 353 b.c.
   The town at the time of Markham 's visit was small

and unimportant. It consisted only of a few dilapi

dated whitewashed houses, in the centre of which rose
the picturesque outline of the old castle of the Knights
of Rhodes. Built by the Grand-Master Philibert de
Naillac in about 1404, it is still in a marvellous state

of preservation. It is said that it was partially con

structed of material obtained from the Mausoleum, of
which no vestige now remains. Indeed, more of it
is to be seen in the British Museum than can be found

on the site of Halicarnassus !

    Here Markham found much to interest him and to
308 ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY [ch. xm

occupy his time. He made a careful study of the
castle and everything connected with it, and was able

to decipher and describe the numerous coats of arms
of the Knights, that adorned the walls. He wrote a

complete description of the place and its history for a

small periodical that was circulated among the ships

of the fleet.

On the arrival of the squadron at Malta, he left for

England, travelling via Sicily and Rome, parting from hi;

friends, after a six weeks' cruise, with mutual regret.

   On his arrival in England he was much gratified by

receiving a letter from the Peruvian Minister of Foreip

Affairs informing him that the Congress of Peru had

unanimously voted him their gold medal, for the

eminent services he had rendered to Peru, and for the

continued interest he took in the welfare and prosperity

of that country.
At this time he was busily engaged in translating from

the Spanish, and editing the first voyage of Columbus,

which, with the shorter accounts of the voyages of the
Cabots and Cor te- Real, was to form one volume for the
Hakluyt Society. He also compiled a paper for the

Society of Antiquaries on the display of heraldry that

he had seen and noted at Budrum Castle; as also a

paper descriptive of ancient Greek and Roman coins,

wsuibthjecttysp,esdehsaigvninagtedspe"ciNaal vraeflerCeonicnes."to  the  sea and naval
                                                                    As
                                                                         if the variety

of subjects on which he was writing was not sufficient,

"ohenRtewhmaesin"iastDceitsnhcceoevssearmyoefoftWimBereisttaeminnginabsgtyeedrPyitnShcewhaorsiotil"n."gandanHheiasrtoiwdwaens

moreover preparing two lectures to be delivered to the

boys of the Worcester on the Arctic Regions.
To use a vulgar phrase, Markham was a glutton for

work, and when that work was of a literary character

his voracity was unappeasable. His natural aptitude

for research, combined with a marvellous memory,

enabled him the more readily to write on many different
ch. xv1n] ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY 309

subjects, at practically the same time. It was a gift,
fortified by thoroughness in detail, an example of which

may be illustrated by the trouble he took in working

out the particular star that was situated nearest to the

Pole in the Northern Hemisphere in the year 300 B.C.,
i"n  DoirsdceorvetrhyatofheBrimtaiignhtbyinsPeyrttheathsis"  information       in
                                                                                   his
                                                             !

     Shortly after his return from the Mediterranean, he

made another delightful trip to Italy with his wife,

visiting Trent and Venice, and then on to Corfu, winding

up, of course, with a long stay at his beloved Taormina.

Here he received the intelligence that he had been elected

President of the Royal Geographical Society. This

was startling news ! He had never put himself forward

as a possible candidate, and he had not the least idea,

when he left England, that the existing President had

any intention of vacating the office. After some

hesitation and careful deliberation, he telegraphed his
              It was
acceptance.           naotdebceisoiocncuhpeyinngeve"r         regretted. He
knew that he  would                                          a bed of roses,"

for there had been much controversy of late, and a certain

amount of testiness and dissension among the Fellows,

regarding the admission of women as Fellows of the

Society. At a general meeting of the members, summoned

for the purpose of affirming and ratifying the rule passed

by the Council, the motion was rejected by a majority

of ten. This led to the resignation of the President, and

the unanimous election of Markham to fill the vacant

Presidential chair. It was a wise choice, both in the

interests of geography and of the Society. With very

faesw"  exceptions,   "thtehaPnreasnidyetnhtins g  had       been    selected   more
        figure-heads                               else              few had   really
                                                             ; very

possessed high geographical attainments. Now they

had called to the chair one who might with perfect truth

be called a professional geographer, a man whose know

ledge of everything appertaining to that science was

second to none in the world; a man who had the best

interests of geography (and of the Society) at heart.

                                                                          21
310 ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY [ch. xvni

That it was a rational and judicious selection, his twelve

long years of office abundantly testified.

The appointment of Markham as President was, as

a matter of fact, the presage of Antarctic exploration.
For some time he had been imbued with the desirability,

from a geographical standpoint, of promoting South

Polar research ; and now he felt that he was in a position

to advocate with some authority, the necessity for
despatching an expedition with this object in view. He
determined that it should be the first business he took

in hand after he had assumed office.

On his return to England he entered at once on his

duties as President, bringing a keenness and knowledge

of the details connected with the office that augured

well for the future. He made many minor alterations

in the internal economy of the Society, and instituted

departmental rules and reforms --especially with regard
to the library and the issue of books -- that tended to

promote the efficiency and usefulness of the various

branches of the institution.
  It must not be
                  thought that the  caha"ngneeswhbe rionotrmod."ucedlt
were simply due   to the advent of

must be remembered that for a period of a quarter of

a century he had been very intimately associated with

the Society as its Honorary Secretary; therefore he

was familiar with its requirements, and in a position to

estimate and appreciate its shortcomings.

   He was installed President of the Society on the 13th
of November, 1893, and presided over the Council for

the first time on that date. All his financial and other

measures were passed without opposition, and the same

evening he took his seat as President at the meeting

and delivered his inaugural address. There was a large

gathering, and he was very cordially received.

   The first official step that he took in connection with
the renewal of Antarctic research was at his first Council

meeting, immediately after his installation as President.

He then appointed a committee to report upon matters
ch. xvn1] ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY 311

bearing on the despatch of an Antarctic expedition.
This was to pave the way for preparing the public and
the Government for the South Polar exploration which

it was intended should take a prominent part in the
geographical agenda of the near future. It was followed

(at the same meeting) by an excellent paper delivered by
Dr. (afterwards Sir) John Murray, setting forth the
arguments for the renewal of Antarctic discovery with
vigorous force; his views were supported by many
eminent men of science, and officers in the Navy who
had served in Polar Regions. No dissentient voice was
raised, and it was altogether a most successful meeting.

    From this time forward, until his object was gained,
Antarctic research was urged by him as the one great
geographical problem left for this country to solve ; and
in its solution he was intensely interested.

    In his capacity as President, he felt it incumbent
upon him to accept invitations to be present at the

pwMahapenercreheohsneterd"eHliGvimeeoraegdlraaypoahnnicealTornaSd"oecPieoRtloyau,rteEswxhp"el;oreraatthioeLniv"ererap; doaonld,a

at Newcastle, where he read a paper on Peru before the
Tyneside Geographical Society. While at Liverpool he
gave an address to the cadets on board the Conway on

"The West Coast of South America, including the Island
of Juan Fernandez." At the meeting of the British
Association at Nottingham, he read a paper descriptive
of the boundary line dividing geology and geography,
which caused an animated discussion. There was no
limit to his writing on the diverse subjects of which he

 was master.

    Shortly after his assumption of office as President,
he originated a celebration, by the Society, of the fourth
centenary of the birth of Prince Henry the Navigator
(son of King John of Portugal), who was distinguished
for his encouragement of science, especially that of
geography. At the club dinner prior to the meeting, he

was honoured by the presence of H.R.H. the Duke of
312 ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY [ch. xvm

York, the Portuguese Minister, and other distinguished
guests. The meeting was a great success, and admirable

speeches were delivered ; telegrams were also exchanged

between the Duke of York, the King of Portugal, and
the Prince of Wales, who was abroad at the time.
The theatre was crowded, the proceedings were not too

long, and everybody was pleased.
   On the 28th of May he presided for the first time at

the anniversary meeting, and delivered his address,

taking the chair afterwards at the anniversary dinner.
He was well supported at both, and everything went

off satisfactorily. It may here be mentioned that, on

his becoming President of the Geographical Club,
he reinstituted the annual fish dinner of the club

at the Ship Inn at Greenwich. It was a custom that
of late years had fallen into desuetude. Its revival was

Ivery popular, and the outing was much looked forward

to by the members of the club and their friends In
addition to all his other multifarious obligations, he was
also a very active member of the Council of the Navy

Records Society.
   On a retrospect of his first year of office as President

of the Geographical Society, he must have been eminently
pleased with the results of his efforts. By his careful
and judicious alteration, and rearrangement of some of
the rules, he had given complete satisfaction; discontent
was expelled and harmony was restored. He had
altered for the better the character of the annual
Presidential address. Hitherto the awards, other than
the medals, had been merely announced; but he in
stituted the formal presentation of them to all the

recipients at the anniversary meetings, a proceeding that
was much appreciated. He introduced a plan of
appointing Fellows to committees, who were not on the

Council -- a very wise procedure. He placed the finance
of the Society on a sound and proper basis, and made
many other useful reforms. This, it must be acknow

ledged, was a great deal to achieve during his first year
ch. xvn1] ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY 313

of office, and it was accomplished in such a quiet, un

obtrusive way as to avoid irritation or provocation of

any sort on the part of those who were inclined to be

somewhat rebellious, or wedded to their own ideas of

rule and government.
   On the 1 2th of July, 1894, he went down to Green-

hithe to bid farewell and good luck to the Jackson-
Harmsworth expedition, which was leaving that day

in the little steamer Windward for the purpose of ex

ploring towards the North Pole, by way of Franz

Josef Land.
   In the early part of the year he suffered very much

from his old complaint, gout; and, as he found that he

had derived but little benefit from the waters of Carlsbad

and Homburg, he decided to try the waters at Larvik
in Norway, which had been strongly recommended

to him. Here, in company with his wife, he spent

several enjoyable weeks, for he found the scenery

lovely, the climate delightful, the waters restorative, and

the people charming.

On passing through Christiania, the King of Sweden,

hearing of his arrival, sent for him to the palace, and

gave him a private interview. They had a long talk

in connection with Arctic exploration and Nansen's

prospects of success. They also discussed recent

English naval affairs, and the lamentable political

conditions existing in Norway, for which His Majesty

expressed great concern. Mrs. Markham subsequently

had audience of the Queen at Her Majesty's express
desire; they having been friends in bygone days at

Wiesbaden.

gJarmeDaeutserirnRgpeanhrtinseollflon"hgisfoatbrimsetenhceeinCfweronrmittuinryghomSthceieenh"ceeLoifcSeceuropiefise.dMatjHhoeer
                                    lecture for the Worcester  boys on
was  "alsDoiscporevpearerirnsg   a  Australia," and writing     articles
the
                                of

setting forth his views regarding the despatch of an

Antarctic expedition.
314 ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY fca. xvm

   In the meantime satisfactory progress was being made
in educating the public mind to the necessity of Polar
exploration in the Southern Hemisphere. Markham
drafted letters to be sent to all geographical and other
learned societies in the kingdom, appealing to them
for help and support. At a meeting of the Council
of the British Association (of which he was a member),
presided over by Lord Salisbury, a very satisfactory
resolution was passed in support of the despatch of an
expedition. He likewise delivered a lecture at the
Imperial Institute, and another at the Royal United
Service Institution, which were well supported; and
everything pointed to his exertions being crowned with
success. He was, moreover, very busy preparing for the
International Geographical Congress, which was to be
held in the Albert Hall in London, and of which he
was to be the first President.

   Prior to this, however, he planned and arranged a
Franklin Commemoration, which took the form of an
excursion in a couple of steamers conveying about 280
friends interested in Arctic research, from Westminster
Bridge to Greenwich. They visited first the Franklin
relics in the museum, and then inspected the pictures in
the Painted Hall. They were received by the Admiral
Superintendent and the Captain of Greenwich College.
Lunch was provided on board the steamers on their
return journey. In the evening a party of about seventy
sat down to dinner at the Geographical Club, at which
Markham presided, having H.R.H. the Duke of York
on his right, and the American Ambassador, Mr. Bayard,
on his left. At the meeting following, Markham
delivered an interesting address, in which he made special
allusion to the presence that evening of old Arctic

officers and the relatives of Sir John Franklin. It was

a very successful gathering, and it assisted very materi
ally in propagating interest in Polar research.

   This was followed, a week after, by the anniversary
meeting of the Royal Geographical Society and all it

                                                                                                                                                                                      1
CH.xvm] ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY 315

entailed --namely, the address, the presentation of

awards, and the official reception in the evening at

Prince's Hall, to which some 600 guests came. It all

went off very well, but it was an exceedingly busy and
fatiguing day for Markham. In order to obtain com

plete rest, and as a precaution to avoid a threatened
attack of gout, he went to Norway, to prepare, and

render himself fit for the duties that would devolve on

him at the International Geographical Congress the
following month. As he was to preside, the burden of
the work in making all the necessary arrangements
fell on his shoulders. He derived much benefit from his

visit, and was back in England only a few days before

the meeting of the Congress--in fact, only in time to

make all the preliminary arrangements for the opening

day.

   H.R.H. the Duke of York had kindly consented to

open the proceedings, and after all the Ambassadors

and principal delegates from foreign countries had been

presented to him, he made an admirable speech and

declared the Congress open. This was followed by an

address from Markham bidding them all welcome.

All went off capitally and without a hitch. The follow

ing days were devoted to the reading of papers on im

portant geographical subjects, in various languages,

and they were followed by interesting discussions.
It
    was,  taims eo,ne"  of our leading  London papers remarked
at  the                 a very Babel    of people speaking every

civilised tongue."

   On the following day the President delivered his

inaugural address. At its conclusion a warm vote of

thanks was proposed by Prince Roland Buonaparte,

which was duly seconded and unanimously agreed to.
That evening the delegates, to the number of about 150,

were entertained by the Geographical and Kosmos Clubs

to a fish dinner at Greenwich, which Markham had

arranged and at which he presided. During the nine

days on which the Congress met, there was a succession
316 ROYAL GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY [ch. xvm

of luncheons, dinner-parties, garden-parties, and other

entertainments, in honour of the distinguished guests.
As may be imagined, the President was kept fully

engaged both socially and in his position as the English
representative of geography, much, it is to be feared,

to the prejudice of his recent podagric treatment.

   The Congress came to an end on the 3rd of August,
when Markham delivered his farewell address, which
was most cordially received. A vote of thanks was

proposed to him in an excellent speech, and the pro

ceedings terminated, after arrangements had been made

for the next Congress to be held in Berlin in 1899. I1
had been a week of strenuous work and much anxiety

to the President, but it all went off very well ; and as
regards numbers, quality, and organisation, it was the

most successful Congress that had ever been held.

This success was due to the untiring energies of Clements

Markham, his great tact in dealing with his foreign

guests, and his powers of organisation, in which he

was loyally backed up by the zeal and energy of the staff
of the Geographical Society. In recognition of his

services at the Congress, the French Government

presented him with a beautiful blue Sevres tazza.

On the day after the closing of the Congress, we find

h" imVoyahgaerds  at work writing the introduction to his
                  of Pedro de Sarmiento," which he was

translating and editing for the Hakluyt Society.
                      CHAPTER XIX

        THE " DISCOVERY " ANTARCTIC EXPEDITION

The conversations he had with the various delegates

to the International Congress only convinced Markham

still more, if possible, of the desirability for a renewal

of Antarctic discovery. He came to the conclusion

that the wisest --in fact, the only--course to pursue,

in order to obtain Government support, was to appeal
directly to the First Lord of the Admiralty. This accord
ingly he did, pointing out the advantages that would
be derived from a further knowledge of the South Polar
Regions, the verification of the dimensions of the vast
Antarctic Continent, and the invaluable scientific work
that would be accomplished. Nor did he omit to mention
the enormous benefit that would accrue to the Navy,
by the practical training of officers in a school where
courage, self-reliance, decision, and other qualities so
essential to a seaman, would be developed. The reply
from the First Lord, however, was not encouraging;
he simply declined to recommend the despatch of an
expedition under Admiralty auspices.

   Although disappointed, Markham was not daunted,
and he was all the more determined to renew his appli
cation immediately a more favourable opportunity
should present itself.

   At this time he was much incensed at what he termed

the outrageous message sent to Congress by the President
of the United States, demanding the right to adjudicate
on the disputed question regarding the boundary line
between British Guiana and Venezuela, which the latter
nation had raised. Markham regarded the claim put

                                                             317
31 8 THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION [ch.mx

forward by the Venezuelans as a criminal act, which,

if sustained, would cause widespread ruin, and even the
risk of war with no apparent justification. He made

extensive research in all official and other authoritative
documents, maps, atlases, and plans, which bore on
the controversy; and proved conclusively that Guiana
belonged to Great Britain by right of discovery, and that
no portion of it, therefore, could be legitimately claimed
by Venezuela. He drew up a concise and comprehensive
report on the state of affairs and submitted it to the

Government, suggesting that, if there was any doubt

as to the accuracy of his statements, the whole question
should be referred to arbitration. He wrote long letters
to The Times and other papers in which he analysed
the fallacious claims of the Venezuelan Government,
while deprecating the uncalled-for interference of the
United States. These were duly accepted and published.

It is gratifying to know that the boundary with Vene

zuela was eventually (in 1899) amicably determined by
arbitration. That with Brazil has never yet been
satisfactorily fixed.

   On the 1 8th of May, 1896, he received the following
letter from the Prime Minister :

    "  De"arI  Mr. Markham,

               am very glad to     be  permitted  to inform you
that Her Majesty has conferred upon you the Knight
Commandersnip of the Bath in recognition of your
great services to geographical science. As one who
worked with you in       a  public     office, as much (I  think)
as thirty years ago,        cannot                         myself
                         I              but congratulate
on         the  channel  of thi"s  information.
    being                          Be"liYevoeursmev,"erSyatl1ruslbyu, ry."

   This was very gratifying, and he was glad to receive
such an acknowledgment of his services to geography
from so high a quarter. Two months afterwards he
CH.XK] THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION 319

was knighted and invested with the insignia of a K.C.B.,
by the Queen at Windsor Castle.
   In the meantime he again accompanied his old friend

the Captain of the Royal Sovereign on a cruise along the

west coast of Scotland, visiting some of the islands of

the Hebrides and the Orkneys. From Oban he made

an expedition to the summit of Ben Nevis, with a party

from the fleet. They seem to have had a very enjoy

able trip, including a sumptuous lunch in the observatory

at the top.
A note on the Cathedral of St. Magnus at Kirkwall

may be quoted from Markham's journal. To his taste,

the beauty   coonfsitdheeredwho"leutwtearsly  marred by      the  chancel,
which he                                        desecrated    by   all the

barbarisms of a Presbyterian conventicle !"

As usual, even at sea, his pen was constantly at work.

Not only was he busily employed in writing the his

"toHryistoofryEnogf litshhe  maritime discovery        for   Laird Clowes 's
                                                              correcting the
                             Navy," but he was         also

"proTohfe-shPeaelatsdinofs  the  only  novel he  ever  published, entitled
                            of   King                  addition he had to
                                       Edwin."     In

reply to no less than 200 letters of congratulation on
his K.C.B. He had also been approached by a publisher

wonith"  a proposal that he should               edit a    series of volumes
         Commercial Geography."                              however varied
                                                   Still,

the subjects with which he had to deal at the same time,

Clements Markham had the gift of evolving order,

me"thTohde,  and entertainment,          from their complexity.
                                        Edwin," alluded to above,
             Paladins of King

was an historical novel describing how the new race of

Empire-founders, Angles and Saxons, crossed over to

England in small detachments during the hundred

years between 450 and 550 a.d., bringing all their
lares and penates and their beautiful golden-haired wives

samndallch"ilddrreagnonwitshhipthse."m  across the North     Sea in their
                                                             be read not
                                        It is a story to

only for its historical interest, but for its local colour

ing ; and as he selected Stillingfleet, the village in which
320 THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION [ch. xa

he was born and lived for so many years, as the scene

of his story, we may rest assured that the topographical

description of the country is absolutely accurate.

   Sir Clements and Lady Markham were paying one

of their annual visits to Norway, when the welcome

news of the arrival of Nansen at Vardo was telegraphed,
and a few days after, intelligence of the arrival of the

From was received. All Norway was stirred by the

news. The towns were decorated, great fetes were

held in honour of the event. The Markhams made
their arrangements so as to be at Christiania in time

to receive Nansen. There was a great reception: the
streets were all decorated with flags, the King made a

special point of being present, and enormous crowds

had collected to greet the explorer.

  A dinner was given at the palace, to which Mark-

ham was invited; about 1oo sat down. During the

dinner His Majesty made a long speech, which Markham

noted as eloquent, judicious, and admirably delivered.
Afterwards the King invited Markham to sit with him

on a sofa, and they had a long conversation on Polar

discovery.

   The next day, Markham and his wife went on board

the From, where Nansen received them and showed them

all over the ship. In the evening another large dinner

on shore was given by the town of Christiania, to which

they were both invited and went. On the third evening

yet another dinner was given by the Norwegian Geo

graphical Society, at which Clements Markham was

seated next to Nansen, and delivered a speech, which

gave great pleasure and satisfaction to the Norwegians.

The festivities were kept up to a late hour. The follow

ing day they dined quietly with Nansen and his wife

at their home in Lysaker, and then returned to England

by way of Copenhagen and Kiel.
   At this time he was busily occupied in compiling his
"  Memorials of the Markham Family," which entailed

much labour and research. The Antarctic project was
ch.x1x] THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION 321

also causing him much concern. In the latter end of
1 896, he had an interview with the First Lord of the
Admiralty on the subject of South Polar exploration.
After some little discussion, he elicited the fact that

although the Admiralty was not unfavourable to the
scheme, yet for various reasons (which certainly did
not appeal to Markham) the Government was not
prepared to despatch an expedition. Markham then

asked whether, if a sufficient sum of money could be

collected by private subscriptions to defray the expenses
of an expedition under the control of the Royal Geo

graphical Society, the Admiralty would assist by lending
officers and men, and would support it with a donation
of money, and advice. To this proposal the First Lord
readily assented, but requested that Markham should
write him a letter embodying his views and suggestions,
on the receipt of which he would be officially informed
how far the Government would be prepared to support
him in the direction indicated.

   This was all very satisfactory so far as it went, for it
evinced a desire on the part of the Admiralty to co
operate with the Geographical Society in the despatch
of an expedition. At a meeting of the Council of the
Society, Markham explained the situation, and proposed
that, as the Government would not entertain the idea

of equipping a ship for Polar discovery, the Society
should take upon itself the responsibility of collecting

funds and despatching a vessel (if sufficient money was
obtainable) under the auspices of the Society. There
was a certain amount of opposition to this proposal
on the part of one of the members, and it was postponed
for further consideration. Later he received a visit
from the private secretary of the First Lord, who in
timated that a letter was being prepared at the
Admiralty, expressive of the approval and interest of
H.M.'s Government in the despatch of an Antarctic
expedition. A few days after, the reply from the
Admiralty was received. lt was not quite so encouraging
322 THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION [ch. m

as might have been expected, but it was of use for

present purposes.

   Meanwhile, Nansen's visit to England kept Markham
fully occupied for some time. He had to make all the

necessary arrangements for Nansen's reception both

officially and privately. The great explorer was first

entertained at dinner at the Royal Societies' Club, at

which Markham presided and    proposed     --h"isa  health.
This was followed by a large  reception             fearful

crush !" On the following evening Sir Clements and

Lady Markham entertained him at dinner in their own

house in Eccleston Square, to which a select number of

notabilities had been invited . The next evening Mark

ham presided at a large dinner given to their distin

guished visitor by the Royal Geographical Club, at

which the Prince of Wales and the Duke of York were
both present. A large public reception at the Albert
Hall followed, the hall being crowded. On being intro

duced by Clements Markham, Nansen received a tre

mendous ovation and delivered an admirable address

descriptive of his journey. The Prince of Wales in a

few appropriate words presented Nansen with the Royal

Geographical Society's special gold medal amid tumul

tuous applause. Nansen briefly responded, and the

proceedings terminated.

   A few days later Markham was also called upon to

preside at a farewell dinner given by the Royal Societies'

Club to Mr. Bayard, the retiring American Ambassa

dor, who had endeared himself to this country by his

courteousness, his ever ready willingness to be of service,

his urbanity and generosity.

Markham then had a short cruise on board the Royal

Sovereign to Vigo and Gibraltar with the Channel

Squadron. Here he again met young Robert Scott,

who was then a lieutenant, and with whom he doubtless

had much interesting discussion on Antarctic exploration,

a subject ever uppermost in his thoughts.

On his return to England he set to work vigorously
 ch. x1x] THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION 323

 to obtain the necessary funds for the contemplated

 expedition. A sum of at least £100,000 was regarded

 as the minimum. He brought forward a resolution
 at the Council of the Royal Geographical Society,
 committing that body to a subscription of £5,000, which
 was carried with unanimity. Mr. Harmsworth offered
 a personal donation of £5,000, together with the use
 of his steamship Windward if necessary. This vessel
 had been specially built for ice navigation, and
 had been engaged in conveying Mr. Jackson and his
 party to and from Franz Josef Land. With such a
 munificent offer from Mr. Harmsworth, together with
 his strong and willing support in the Press, Markham
 felt assured that the amount required would be forth
 coming, and his anxiety was proportionately allayed.

    In the midst of all his work, he found time to proceed
 to Nithsdale in Dumfriesshire, for the purpose of un
veiling the memorial dedicated to Mr. Joseph Thompson,
 the African traveller.

    His first step towards the realisation of his great
object was the appointment of an Antarctic Committee
which should consist of those specially interested in,
and conversant with, Polar exploration. At a con
ference held by this committee, Markham considered
it would be judicious to invite the Australian Premier
and Agents-General to be present, in order to enlist
their sympathies. He was warmly supported in his
advocacy of the necessity for despatching an expedition
by the Duke of Argyll and such prominent men of
science as Sir Joseph Hooker, Sir William Flower, and
Professor Rllcker. The Agents-General of New South
Wales and Victoria spoke hopefully and in sympathy with
the object in view. Everything went off satisfactorily.

    Being now assured of a certain amount of support,

moral if not financial, Markham set to work to obtain

the necessary funds with that impulsive energy that was
so prominent a characteristic of his. He appealed

broadcast to learned and other societies, and he wrote
324 THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION [ch. xn

letters innumerable to those who he thought could

afford and would be willing to assist, whether he was

acquainted with them or not. He succeeded also in
inducing the Royal Society to co-operate with the
Geographical Society. A strong Antarctic Committee

was formed, consisting of members of both Societies,

with a large sprinkling of naval and Arctic officers,

having the President of the Royal Society, Lord Lister,

as its chairman. Markham himself acted as vice-

chairman, and took every step he could possibly think

of to raise funds. He even went over to Norway to

inspect various steamers that had been specially con

structed for ice navigation, which he thought might be

suitable for the purpose. During this journey he was

accompanied by Dr. Nansen whose advice and experience

were of the greatest value and help to him.

Having once put his shoulder to the wheel, Markham

never relaxed his energies. He contributed articles to

the magazines, he wrote letters to the papers, he delivered

lectures --in short, he left no stone unturned in his en

deavour to educate the public to the necessity for

Antarctic research. He went so far as to write and ask
if the Queen would be graciously pleased to interest

herself in the expedition, and received a most gratifying

rMeapjleystfryom"  her private secretary informing  him   that Her
                   wished all possible success to   the  Antarctic

Expedition."
In order to illustrate the immense amount of work
that was thrust upon him at this time, it may be stated

that he was simultaneously President of the Royal
Geographical Society, President of the Hakluyt Society,

President of the International Geographical Congress,
President of the Geographical Club, President of the

Royal Societies' Club, a Commissioner of the Paris

Exhibition, a member of the committee of the Worcester,

a member of the committee of the Cornwall, Vice-

President and Secretary of the joint Antarctic Com

mittee, Vice-President of the Navy Records Society,
ch. x1x] THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION 32$

and President of the Elizabethan Club, to name a few of

the associations and societies in which he was interested.

He was also arranging at this time for the commemora

tion of the fourth centenary of the rounding of the

Cape of Good Hope by Vasco da Gama during his

memorable voyage to India. The Prince of Wales and
the Duke of York honoured him with their presence

at dinner at the Geographical Club, as did His Excellency

the Portuguese Minister. There was a crowded meet

ing afterwards, when felicitous speeches were made
at the conclusion of the President's address. Two

days  "  afterwards Markham  was the   principal               guest of
the      Royal Navy Club of    1765,"  where he                had the

pleasure of meeting several old friends and shipmates.

A few days later he presided at the dinner given by the

Royal Societies' Club to Lord Curzon, on his appoint

ment as Viceroy of India. But it would be tedious

to detail the enormous amount of work that devolved

upon him. He had much to do and more to think

about, and he never spared himself.

   At this time the Swedish Minister, Count Lewen-

haupt, brought him the insignia of a Commander

(First Class) of the Order of the Pole Star,* which had
been conferred upon him by the King of Sweden.

   By the end of the year 1898 he had collected only
the sum of £14,000, and had many difficulties and much

opposition to contend with on the part of some of the

members of    the committee, who, in                      his  thpehr"asger,indoinnlgy
                                                          in,
cared about,  apnadrtwiceurlearmoarxeesin"te--retshtaetd
of their own                                              is, in the further
ance of their own special branches of science --than they
were in the expedition at large. To Markham, who had

worked at the problem for a period of over sixteen years,

and without whom the despatch of an expedition would

never have taken place, this opposition was, to say the

least, discouraging. He had drawn up the instructions

after infinite trouble, and had taken no small pains in

* This order is conferred for literary or scientific distinction.

                                                               22
326 THE " DISCOVERY '* EXPEDITION [ca. xh

organising the expedition in the best interests of geo

graphical science and the encouragement of maritime

enterprise. But he was not a man to be discouraged

by opposition, and in course of time the real direction

of affairs remained under his control.

In September, 1899, he went to Berlin to attend the

International Geographical Congress, in order to render

an account of his stewardship as President, and in a

short speech resigned his office. On the following day

he read his paper on Arctic exploration, which was well
received and discussed. The Burgomaster of Berlin

entertained the delegates at a large banquet to which

1,300 guests sat down. The next evening there was a

great party given by Baron Richthofen, who succeeded

Markham as President of the Congress. It was a great

relief to him when the festivities terminated and he was

able to return to England.

   Only a passing reference need be made to Markham 's
very keen interest in the progress of the Boer War,
for he played no public part in connection with it.

Privately, however, it touched him closely, for not only
had he many friends both in the Navy and in the

Army who were serving in South Africa, but also

many relatives.

For a holiday he spent many weeks travelling in

Nhaournwtasy,ofvi"sittirnipgpeprlsac"es!  as remote as possible from the
                                            He dearly loved the Scandi

navian countries, especially Norway. Accompanied

by Lady Markham, he made a most delightful trip

through the Stavanger and Hardanger Fiords to Odda

and Briefond. They thoroughly enjoyed the grand

and lovely mountainous scenery through which they

travelled, sometimes in a carriage, more often on foot,
climbing steep hills, enjoying the invigorating air, the
absence of all formalities, and the simplicity of their

surroundings. Both being keen botanists, they were

able to make an extensive collection of the wild-flowers

which they gathered on the slopes of the mountains.
ch.x1x] THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION 327

These were all tabulated and classified on their return

to the inns at which they were staying. They rarely

remained more than a day or two in the same place,

always on the move, happy in each other's company,

and winning the affection of the peasantry by their

kind and friendly intercourse with them.

Returning by way of Christiania, they met the Duke

of the Abruzzi and Captain Cagni, on their way home

from their successful expedition towards the North

Pole. The Duke was most cordial, and expressed his

pleasure at meeting so celebrated an authority on Polar

exploration as Clements Markham. He showed him all

the photographs he had taken in his highest northern

position, and they had an interesting discussion on Polar

questions generally. At the University of Christiania,

Markham delivered a lecture before the Norwegian

Geographical  "  Society to a crowded      audience. His
subject was      The Geographical Aspects   of Inca Civili

sation."

We must now return to the contemplated Antarctic

Expedition. In the early part of 1899, Markham
received a most gratifying letter from Mr. L. W. Long-

staff, placing the sum of £25,000 at his disposal for

the expedition. This was not only in itself a munificent
gift, but it was such as justified Markham, having now

nearly £40,000 in his possession, to approach the Govern

ment with confidence and ask for monetary assistance.

Mr. Longstaff's noble and patriotic gift altered the whole

position of affairs and led to important results. Mr.

Balfour consented to receive a deputation, and, to cut

a long story short, the Prime Minister cordially an

nounced that the Government would contribute the

sum of £45,000 on condition that an equal amount

was forthcoming from other sources. This was indeed

encouraging. Only £3,000 was required to make up

the amount necessary to secure the Government grant,

and on Markham 's appeal to the Council of the Royal

Geographical Society, that enlightened body unani
328 THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION [cn. xn

mously consented to subscribe the money required.
Another appeal was made to the public, and in August,
 1 90 1, he had the satisfaction of announcing that the
total subscribed to the fund amounted to £93,000.

    Now that the expedition had become an actual fact,
there was much work for Markham to do; for the re
sponsibility in connection with the supplies, the food
and clothing sufficient to last for a period of three
years, rested on his shoulders. The appointments of
the Commander (and leader) of the expedition, and the

other officers, devolved upon him. It was agreed that

the majority of the officers and crew were to be naval
men specially selected by Markham and approved by
the Admiralty. There were also two medical men to

be appointed, as well as a biologist, a physicist, and a
geologist, all of whom would be civilians.

   The Prince of Wales kindly consented to become the
Patron of the expedition, and the Duke of York willingly
accepted the position of Vice- Patron.

    Robert Falcon Scott, now promoted to the rank of
Commander, was specially selected with the other ex

ecutive officers by Markham. All were well known to

him, and he had the highest opinion of their capabilities

and qualifications.

   As no suitable vessel was obtainable, it was decided

to build one specially adapted for the service on which
she was to be employed. Accordingly, this was
arranged, at a cost of about £45,000. She was
built at Dundee under the superintendence of a Chief
Constructor of the Admiralty, Mr. Smith, who also
designed her. The cost of this vessel made a large
inroad into the sum at their disposal, but it could not
be helped. As the ship was not a man-of-war, or even
under the Naval Discipline Act (she came under the
Merchant Shipping Act), it was necessary that she should

have a registered owner. It was decided that the

Royal Geographical Society should be the owners,
and that Markham should be the nominal manager.
    *

             r -4

                     r

                                                  i

·^

THE " DISCOVERY.

                  To /act fast jj»
ch.x1x] THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION 329

He designed a " house flag " to be hoisted at the mast

head, and also devised sledge flags to be used by the

officers when away on sledging duties. An insurance

policy was taken out in order to guard against all risks.

The ship was launched on the 21st of March, 1901,

by Lady Markham, and was named the Discovery.

SadtihreetchsteoarileEd"asfbtroemiInngdDiaaunDdpeoaecsksseonngoetnhr etoh3nerdb6oothaf,rJdut.hneeA"asnmdtahanerarigsvihenidgp

passed the Worcester in the Thames, the cadets swarmed

up the rigging and gave three rousing cheers, meant,

in all probability, as much for their friend Sir Clements

as for the gallant fellows who were about to start on a

perilous voyage to unknown regions.

Elaborate instructions were drawn up for the guidance

of the officers. and men, and these were given to Captain

Scott by Markham himself; but there was a certain

amount of discretionary power vested in the leader

of the expedition in the event of the instructions con

flicting in any way with local circumstances, or the un

expected discovery of new territory or seas, that would

necessitate  waasc, h"anTgreusot f   plans. The    spirit of the in
structions                          implicitly to  the Commander,

and always look to him for advice and guidance when in

doubt or difficulty."

" By mutual confidence and mutual aid
  Great deeds are done, and great discoveries made."

   Space does not admit of entering more fully into the
details connected with the equipment and the departure
of the Discovery on her long and hazardous voyage
towards the South Pole. Markham was in every way

to be congratulated on the Commander he had selected,

and, indeed, he had the most perfect confidence in his

zeal and capabilities. Although only a comparatively
young officer, Scott at once assumed responsibility,
and evinced a grasp of his duties that was most re

markable. He brought to the work an active and
330 THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION [ch. xn

capable mind blended with sound judgment. In his

dealings with those under his command, he combined
unfailing tact and a conciliatory bearing with firmness
and resolution. He proved to be an excellent organiser,
sympathetic to those serving under him, and a born
leader of men. Markham was indeed fortunate in

being able to secure the services of one who, it could be

truthfully said, possessed

                 " The reason firm, the temperate will,
                  Endurance, foresight, strength and skill."

   The Discovery sailed from the Thames on the 31st

of July, 1901, amid the cheers of several hundred people

who had assembled to wish her Godspeed. She anchored

in Stokes Bay, near Gosport, at 8 p.m. the following
day, Clements Markham having come round in her from

London.

   On the 5th of August the Discovery steamed round
to Cowes, where she was visited by King Edward and
Queen Alexandra. The officers were presented to Their
Majesties, who subsequently inspected the men. They
were then shown round the ship, expressing their
approval of the arrangements. The King expressed
to Markham his high opinion of Captain Scott's fitness
for the command. He then invested Scott with the
Victorian Order, a graceful act intended to mark, in a

special way, the keen interest taken by His Majesty
in the work of the Commander and his gallant com
panions, as well as in the success of the great enterprise

of which he was the Patron. The officers and men
being assembled on the quarter-deck, King Edward
addressed them as follows:

" Commander Scott, officers and men of the Discovery,
I have  hbaedcagurseeat01pltehaesuirneteirnesvt isIititnagkethinis  ship with the
                                                                    the Antarctic
Queen,
Expedition and its objects, and in order to wish you all

Godspeed. You are going on a service from which, I
believe, great results will accrue. I have often visited
ships in order to say farewell when departing on warlike
ch.x1x] THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION 331

service ; but you are starting on a mission of peace, and
for the advancement of scientific knowledge. The
results of your labours will be valuable, not only to

your country, but to the whole civilised world. I trust

that you will be able to achieve the great work that is
before you, and that you will all return safe and well."

   Before leaving, Their Majesties presented signed
portraits of themselves to the wardroom mess. The

Discovery sailed the next forenoon after the officers had
taken a warm and affectionate farewell of their devoted
friend Clements Markham.

    He might well be proud at the result of his exertions.
The eyes of the scientific world would, he knew, follow
with interest the proceedings of the good ship Discovery,
and she was practically the creation of his brain, the
product of his persistent energy. He had selected in
dividually the gallant explorers and sent them forth on
a glorious enterprise, to fight with no mortal foe, but
the more formidable powers of Nature. Markham had
done his utmost to deserve success; it now lay with

those he had despatched to achieve the successful issue
he anticipated.

   In the midst of all his Antarctic work, he yet found
time to turn his attention to other matters at home.
Feeling the necessity of geographical knowledge being
more widely disseminated in the country, and especially
at our recognised educational centres, he succeeded in
arranging with the authorities that a school for geography
should be founded at Oxford University. The example
set by this University was followed by many of the other
centres of education in England. He found time, also,
to run down to Southampton for the purpose of in
augurating the new local Geographical Society at that
port.

   At about this time he was unanimously elected one
of the thirteen trustees of Dr. Busby's Charity, a body
specially selected from the most distinguished of the
old Westminster boys. This mark of distinction coming
332 THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION [ch. xrx

from his old school was most gratifying to him, for he

was the first of the Markham family to be selected for

the honour since his great-grandfather the Archbishop
of York, who was appointed trustee in 1756, and who
retained the position until his death in 1807. Shortly
after, he was elected a member of the governing body

of Westminster School.

The reports received as to the prosperity of the cin

chona plantations in India caused him great pleasure

and satisfaction. To say nothing of the benefits accus

ing to humanity, a profit of no less than £250,000 had
been made by the Indian Government since the intro

duction of the febrifuge into our Indian possessions. It

was a glorious triumph, an almost incredible result.

No sooner had the Discovery left England, than

Markham turned his attention to the necessity of pre
paring a relief ship to be despatched with the object of

obtaining news of Scott's expedition the following year.

During one of his visits to Christiania, he arranged for

the purchase of a vessel named the Morning. She had

been originally engaged as a whaler in Baffin's Bay, and

was therefore specially adapted for the service. Mark

ham bought her on most favourable terms. She was

sent over to England at once, to be prepared for her

important work, and was placed under the command

of Mr. W. Colbeck, an officer of the mercantile marine

who had already gained experience in ice navigation,

and was a most capable and energetic commander.

Markham 's time was now fully occupied in endeavour

ing to raise the funds for her equipment. He wrote to

everyone he could think  of as likely   to"  subscribe, but,
as he himself quaintly   expresses it,       the rich when

applied to only button up their pockets, and the poor

have no money to spare." Mr. Longstaff was, however,

an exception to this rule, for he again unbuttoned his

pockets, and sent a handsome donation of £5,000 to

head the list and set an example ! Markham was then

sent for by the Prince of Wales at York House, who was
ch. x1x] THE " DISCOVERY " EXPEDITION 333

anxious to know if steps had been taken for the despatch
of a relief ship; if not, no time was to be lost in doing so.

The Prince was much relieved on hearing what had
been done. He then discussed the question of funds,
and indicated certain sources that might be tapped
with advantage. He also intimated that the King
would gladly subscribe £100 towards the fund, and that
he himself would give £50. He took a keen interest in
the success, and especially in the safety of the expedition,
and the interview was of a most cordial and satisfactory
nature. Furthermore, His Royal Highness continued to
make frequent inquiries as to the progress of the fund.

   Eventually a sum of about £23,000 was collected,
but this was barely sufficient to pay expenses. Neither
the Government nor the Admiralty would render any
further financial assistance. The vessel, however, sailed

from London on its errand of mercy on the 10th of July,
1902, with the object of communicating, if possible,

with the Discovery.
   Markham was now satisfied that he had taken every

possible means to insure communication with Captain
Scott, and every precaution to secure the safety of the
officers and men, in the unfortunate event of any dis
aster befalling their ship. Nothing more was possible,
and he was content to wait patiently for news.

   It is not to be supposed that, in the equipment and

despatch of the two ships, Markham's life was an easy
or tranquil one. In the various committees that had
been formed for the purpose of drawing up instructions
for the guidance of Captain Scott, there were many

whose ideas as to the general management and scope
of the expedition differed from those which Markham

had originally designed. This friction caused him a
good deal of worry, and it led eventually to the re
signation of several members of the committee who were

unable to support the views of the recalcitrant members.
The opposition was of such a nature as almost to

threaten the success of the expedition. It reached such
334 THE " DISCOVERY" EXPEDITION [ch. xk

a point that Markham seriously contemplated sending
in his resignation, and he was only deterred from doing
so by his strong sense of duty to those who had supported
him in collecting the funds, and had otherwise assisted
him in the promotion of the enterprise. He felt that to
desert them at this juncture would possibly result in
the failure and destruction of the principal work for
which the expedition had been originally designed.

   It was extremely fortunate, in the best interests of

science, that Markham stood to his guns in the carrying

out of the programme which he had arranged. It must not

be forgotten that the idea of the despatch of the expedi
tion was his inception; that it was through his energy
and persistence that the necessary funds were obtained ;
and that it was consequent upon his position and reputa
tion as a geographer and a man of science, that the
Government had been induced to contribute to the
expenses and to take a large share in the responsibility
of its despatch. His resignation from the governing
body would have been a calamity, involving in all
probability the shipwreck of the whole scheme. Fortu
nately this was avoided ; concessions were made on both
sides, harmony was preserved, and Markham remained,
and continued to be the leading spirit in the conduct of
the enterprise in which he took such keen interest.
                 CHAPTER XX

                 LATER YEARS

In March, 1903, a cablegram from New Zealand an

nounced the welcome intelligence that the Morning

had arrived, and that she had succeeded in communi

cating with the Discovery. All was well with the

expedition, successful work had been accomplished by

her during the summer, and one of her sledging-parties

under Scott had reached the latitude of 820 17' S.
Unfortunately, the vessel was helplessly frozen in the
ice in MacMurdo Sound, where she had passed the winter,
and it would be almost impossible to extricate her that

year. Captain Scott had decided, therefore, to remain

out for another winter; in fact, he could not do other

wise unless he abandoned his ship.

Markham was delighted at the good news, and re

joiced in the knowledge of the safety of the ship and

crew. He was also pleased that another year of good

exploring work would be accomplished, and he looked
                                                       But -- there is
forward to  imneovsittabsaletis"fabcutotry"  results.  of this sort --
always the                                   in cases

where was the money to come from, with which to

provide for the additional expenses that would neces

sarily be incurred by having to despatch the Morning

a second time ?

   Where indeed ?

   It was a difficulty, but it had to be faced ; and with his
usual energy and pertinacity he set about to overcome it.

Naturally, his first appeal was to the Government,

who, to his intense surprise, decided, after much corre

spondence, to undertake the relief, but only on condition

                 335
336               LATER YEARS                  [ch. xx

that the Morning was placed entirely and absolutely at

the disposal of   t'sheaApdpmroivraallt,y.butTh"isbepglagnarsdidcannontotmebeet
with Markham

choosers," and he was obliged to accept the terms of
the Government ; for he felt that, as the lives of the men

were at stake, and the prospect of raising the money

on his own responsibility was somewhat problematical,
it was the only course he could conscientiously pursue.
From that moment the responsibility for the succour of

the men was removed from his shoulders, but his interest

in the expedition was in no way diminished.
At length, after long anxious waiting, news was
received on the 2nd of April, 1904, of the safe arrival
at Lyttelton, New Zealand, of the Discovery and Morn

ing. There was also a long telegram from Captain

Scott reporting that the second sledging season was as

successful as the first, and had yielded equally important

results; besides which, valuable dredging and sounding

operations had been carried out after leaving winter-
quarters. Markham was delighted at the success of

the expedition, for it had exceeded his wildest hopes,

but above all he rejoiced in the knowledge of the safety

of the ships and all on board, after the anxiety and

strain caused by the long silence. Markham regarded

the work achieved by Scott in the second travelling

season as a valuable corollary to the work accomplished

during the first season, thereby doubling the value and

importance of the general scientific results obtained.

He   paid a high  a"ndwhriocshely   deserved   tribute of praise to
the  Commander                     rare gifts  have secured these

results."

The Discovery arrived at Portsmouth on the 10th

of September. Sir Clements and Lady Markham were

there to see her come in, and they were almost the first

to go on board and bid them all a hearty welcome. Mark

ham had an enthusiastic reception from the officers and

men. All were in splendid health and spirits, delighted to

get home, and happy in the knowledge that they had
ch. xx]  LATER YEARS  337

done well, and deserved well of their country. As the
ship steamed into Portsmouth Harbour, she was saluted
by the men-of-war with every demonstration of joy;
bands were playing, and the crews were cheering.
His Majesty sent one of his Aides-de-Camp down speci
ally with a message of congratulation. The Mayor

of Portsmouth entertained them at a grand banquet in
the Town Hall, at which Markham's health was drunk

and he was called upon for a speech.
   After a short stay at Portsmouth, the ship proceeded

to the Thames, with Markham again as a passenger.
Here she was safely berthed in her old billet in the East
India Docks to pay off. Festivities were the order of
the day. Their countrymen extended a warm welcome
to the explorers, feeling that they could not do too much
to show their appreciation for the splendid work which
had been achieved by Captain Scott and the brave crew
of the Discovery.

   The winding-up of the expedition naturally threw an
enormous amount of work on Markham's shoulders, for
he was really personally responsible for everything con
nected with it. The crew had to be paid off; the

remaining stores and provisions had to be disposed
of; the officers' journals and logs had to be taken in
charge; and the disposal of the ship was a matter for
serious consideration. The official report of the scientific
work of the expedition had also to be drawn up under
the superintendence of specialists ; the charts and plans
showing the discoveries that had been made had to be
copied and reproduced ; and the names of the new moun

tains, inlets, bays, and glaciers, had to be settled.
   The public reception and welcome to Scott and the

officers and men of the Discovery and Morning by the
Royal Geographical Society was held on the 7th of

November. It took place in the Albert Hall, which was

filled to overflowing. The explorers received a tre
mendous ovation. Amid much cheering, Clements

Markham presented Captain Scott with the Antarctic
338  LATER YEARS                                  [ch.xx

Gold Medal, struck especially for the occasion ; and the
American Ambassador, Mr. Choate, delivered to him

the medal of the Pennsylvania Geographical Society

that had been conferred upon him. Markham then

presented Captain Colbeck with a symbolic piece of
plate, in recognition of his valuable services whilst in

command of the Morning.

   Prior to the meeting, on arriving at the Albert Hall,

Markham was taken into a small room in which all the

officers of the two ships were assembled, when, to his

intense surprise, Captain Scott, in a very touching

speech, presented him, on behalf of the officers of the

expedition, with a beautifully wrought silver centrepiece

representing a sledge being drawn by a man in sledging

costume. It was a token of their esteem for all that he
had done to create and organise the expedition, and of

their gratitude for the interest that he took in its

welfare and all those who served in it. He was quite

taken aback at this wholly unexpected tribute of appreci
ation from the officers, and found it difficult to find

words that would give appropriate expression to his

feelings. It was a gift that in after-years he always

valued as one of his most precious possessions.*

Receptions and banquets to the members of the

expedition were now the order of the day. Not only

were they entertained by many of the various City

guilds in London, but also by many societies and clubs.
Hull, Liverpool, Sheffield, Colchester, Edinburgh, and

other towns, vied with each other in the welcome and
hospitality extended to the brave explorers. To all

of these functions Markham was invited, and felt it
his duty to attend, although it was often at some
                                    There was--it could
personal inconvenience to himself.
                                    in the speeches he
not be otherwise --much sameness

had to listen to, and to which he had to reply. Some

times the element of wit was introduced by the speakers,

which, however, did not meet with the appreciation of

     * A copy of it is reproduced on the binding of this volume.
ch. xx]   LATER YEARS                                                                                               339

oothnfaenthoemfsetehneococgfaussecisoietnsns,cewthhtaroyt, in"itgthitseorrebeepiosfrutnenodnt,yhind"gec! lamreodre  on one
                                                                                                                    dreary

After satisfactorily arranging for the winding up of

the affairs of the Antarctic Expedition, Markham came

to a very momentous decision, but one which he had

considered very carefully for some time. This was his

resignation of the presidency of the Royal Geographical

Society.

The strain during the past few years had been very

great. The worries and difficulties he had to contend

with, especially in connection with the preliminary

business of securing the despatch of the Antarctic

Expedition, were inconceivable. He was now seventy-

five years of age; he felt that his active geographical

life had practically closed, and that he could do no more
good in that particular direction. It was only right, he

considered , that he should make way for younger and more

active men. But he did not consider at the time that

much of the great and valuable experience which he had

acquired would be indirectly lost to geographical science

by his retirement. On the announcement of his

resignation, he was the recipient of many letters of

regret from geographers of all nationalities, eminent

men of science, and others interested in geography.

Among them was a charming letter from Sir Dighton

Probyn, which contained most kind and complimentary

messages from His Majesty, and another equally
charming from Sir Arthur Bigge, written by direction

of the Prince of Wales.

The anniversary dinner of the Royal Geographical

Society held on the 22nd of May, 1905, was converted into

a complimentary banquet in honour of their retiring

President, and he was practically the guest of the even

ing. It was numerously attended ; nearly 300 assembled

to do him honour. Sir George Goldie, his successor,

was in the chair. After the toast of his health had been

duly honoured, Mr. Macartney, brother-in-law of Captain
340                    LATER YEARS                   [caxx

Scott, rose, and in a few appropriate words presented

Markham with a beautiful silver cup (a replica of the

Cup of Cashel) on behalf of the relatives of the officers
of the Discovery, in recognition of the high estimation
in which he was held, and in loving remembrance of

the fatherly interest that he had always evinced in

promoting their comfort and welfare. At the same time
a very beautiful penholder was given to him for pre
sentation to Lady Markham, who was almost as well

known to the various members of the expedition as

was her husband, and certainly appreciated no less.
   Thus ended his long connection with the Society as

its President. His term of office lasted for twelve con
secutive years, the longest period on record. To those
twelve years, he had every right to look back with
satisfaction and pride for the way in which the affairs
of the Society had been directed, and how, mainly by

his personality, its prosperity and popularity had so
largely increased. In the words of the present President

of the Society :

" The outstanding feature of his term of office was
the revival of Antarctic exploration. For this object
no discouragement could thwart his combative energy;
for years he wrestled with indifferent Chancellors of
the Exchequer until he finally got his grant; or
forcibly with fellow-men of sc1ence in support       argued

                                                     of his
own v1ews on the aims and organisation of the ex
pedition."

This is a very true summary of his character, con

cisely put. When once he had set his mind on any

course of action which, in his opinion, was indispensable,

he would never be discouraged by any arguments that

might be advanced in opposition, but would fight
                                                      It was only by bis
"strceonmuboautsilvye  toenaetrgtayin"  his object.
                                         that the    Antarctic expedition

became a material reality.

There is no doubt that his decision to resign the

presidency was due in a large measure to the loss of
ch. xx]                  LATER YEARS               341

so many of his old friends and relations, who had passed
away during recent years. Their loss engendered a

feeling not only of sorrow, but of loneliness, although
he still retained the inestimable blessing of a true and
sympathetic companion in the person of his wife, to
whom he had been united for nearly half a century.
This great blessing was fully appreciated by him,
though it did not lessen the sadness he felt at the
irreparable loss of so many old and dear friends. The
loss of contemporaries is the most distressing feature
of a long and vigorous old age.

    But although he had resigned the presidency of the
Society, he consented to accept the office of a Vice-
President, and therefore remained a member of the

Council. He still retained his connection with all the

other societies and corporations with which he had been

associated. His resignation, however, was a distinct
loss to geography at large. By the Society itself his

loss was much felt. The officials had invariably and

confidently looked up to their President for assistance,

guidance, and sympathy, and they were well aware

that any grievance they had would be considered,

and, if possible, alleviated. He was always a good

and stanch friend to those who showed zeal in their

work and devoted themselves to the best interests of

the Society.

Immediately he was relieved of his geographical

responsibilities, he started off with Lady Markham to
his beloved Norway, partly on account of threatenings

of gout, and partly for a complete rest from everything,
except, of course, his literary work, which always

accompanied him          w" hLeirfeeveorf  he went. On this occasion
he was writing the
                                           Edward VI.," which shortly

"aftceurrwea,"rdsthehye  published.   On the   completion of the
                         made an     extended  visit to Jutland,

which they both thoroughly enjoyed. His object was
to inspect some runic inscriptions in the north of the

peninsula.

                                               33
342  LATER YEARS  [ch.xs

    On the 2 1 st of October (Trafalgar Day) he delivered
a lecture to the Westminster boys, describing in graphic
language all the incidents connected with that great
sea-fight, and paying a high tribute to the ability of
Lord Nelson as a seaman and a strategist. The lecture
was given in such vivid and inspiriting words, that it
could not fail to appeal to the national pride and en
thusiasm of his young audience. He also prepared and

read a paper at the Royal Geographical Society on the
next great Arctic discovery, at which the Duke of the
Abruzzi and several Arctic naval officers were present,
many of whom took part in the interesting discussion

that ensued. At the opening of the Board of Geographi

cal Studies in Cambridge, he delivered the inaugural

address.

   Having now more time at his disposal, he was enabled
to carry out certain long-formed projects of visiting

foreign countries and studying the particular subjects
peculiar to those countries in which he was interested.
Accompanied by Lady Markham, he spent some months
in the island of Teneriffe, studying its botany, and
especially collecting all the information he could obtain
regarding the history of the Guanches, the ancient
inhabitants of the island.

   Their daughter did not accompany her parents on

these trips, her time being almost entirely engrossed
in the superintendence of church work in the East End
of London, work to which she was devoting all her
energies, and in which her father was also much in

terested.

   In 1906 he accepted an invitation extended to him
by Admiral Egerton for a cruise in the western part of
the Mediterranean. He had all the more pleasure in ac
cepting this invitation in consequence of the fact that
the flagship to which he was invited was commanded
by Captain Scott. In the company of an Arctic Admiral,
an Antarctic Captain, and many old training squadron
friends, he was supremely happy. He was especially
ch. xx]          LATER YEARS                             343

interested in visiting the Balearic Islands, where they

spent some time. On his way home he visited Barce

lona, Madrid, Cordova, and Granada, and was so

impressed by the glories of the Alhambra, and the

beauty of the other places he visited, that immediately

on his return home he started off again, accompanied
by Lady Markham, in order that she also should have

an opportunity of sharing in the pleasures he had so

recently enjoyed. He not only wrote a very full

description of the Alhambra, with all its amazing

architectural loveliness, but he also compiled during

this trip the pedigrees of the reigning Sovereigns of
Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Spain, Portugal, Granada,

Cordova, Castile and Leon, Aragon, Majorca, Navarre,

etc. His faculty for acquiring and retaining genea

logical information was marvellous.

At Palma, in the island of Majorca, he went to see

the priceless portolano of Gabriel Valseca, then in the

possession of Count Montenegro, to whom he had a

letter of introduction. This invaluable document has

a room to itself, and is kept in a case covered with

crimson velvet and secured with a lock to a special

table. The Kings of the countries marked on the map

are depicted on their thrones, with their arms painted

on flags above them; and there are several legends on

it in minute handwriting. This portolano once belonged

to Amerigo Vespucci, and, at the time of the Chicago

Exhibition, the Government of the United States, being

desirous of exhibiting it, offered to send a man-of-war,

so it is related, specially to take it over and to bring

it back. But the offer was declined by the Count.

They were particularly sorry to leave Palma, where

they stayed for a couple of months, for they liked the

people, who, Markham records, were always "well

dressed, courteous, and obliging." The only beggars

were  cripples,  "antidpst,h"eruenlwesesre   very   few  of them. Boys
even  refused                               they   had   done something

to earn a reward; and the population was industrious
344           LATER1YEARS                                [ch. n

and thriving. At Cordova he visited the burial-place
of the Inca Garcilasso de la Vega, whose life he was
engaged in writing for the Hakluyt Society; and at
Gibraltar they embarked in the mail-steamer for home.
They celebrated their golden wedding day at sea.
He recalls the wonderful changes that had taken place

during those fifty eventful years, and he contemplates
                                                    he spent when there
with  s"ornroowbfuiklerse,grneot  the happy time     no beards, or golf
were                               bridge-parties,

and motors."
   On the 1 2th of June, 1907, Markham went to Cam
bridge to receive the honorary degree of LL.D. which
had been conferred upon him by that University.
There were nine other recipients, including Lord Elgin,

Mr. Campbell- Bannerman, Lord Curzon, and Lord
Milner. In the evening they were entertained at

dinner at Trinity Hall, wearing their scarlet gowns. In

the  speeches introducing the recipients of         the  adseg"reaen,
the  selection of Markham was referred              to

important recognition to the science of geography."

Shortly afterwards he received the high Norwegian

order of the Knighthood of St. Olaf (First Class), which
the King of Norway had conferred upon him.
A few days later he received intelligence of the death
of his dear friend Sir Leopold M'Clintock. This caused

him much grief. Markham had a great affection for

his old friend, who was always ready to give him sound

advice, especially on Polar matters. It was another

old and valued friend the less.

   Towards the end of the year 1907 Markham and his
wife left England to pay their first of several winter

visits to Mont Estoril, a pretty little seaside resort in

Portugal, situated on the broad Atlantic, only half

an hour's journey by rail from Lisbon. Shortly after

their arrival they were horrified to hear of the dastardly
assassination of the King and the Crown Prince of

Portugal in Lisbon, with the narrow, almost miraculous,

escape of the Queen and her other son, Prince Manod.
ch. xx]       LATER YEARS                             34$

Much excitement was, naturally, caused by this cowardly,

cold-blooded crime, but, fortunately, the authorities took

stern and successful measures to suppress any revolu

tionary movement tending to riot or rebellion.

    Mont Estoril was, in Markham's eyes, an ideal place

in which to pass a winter. It possessed a mild and

salubrious climate, with lovely scenery. There were

no worries to distract his attention or divert his thoughts,

so that he was able to give full scope to his literary

inclinations. He was engaged at this time on an article
for Harper's Magazine, descriptive of the Polar Regions

when, in a remote geological age, that particular part of

the world enjoyed a tropical climate. At the same time

wtghheoreiitnwipngargosoovtfch-esoerhme"ptehlLteesitfienorgefovfhisaSiseisrm"LeoLemfiofeophioirosldfo"AfMrS'ctCthholebirnyistAohncoodkfpeaM"Mna;ajcorrokerrhclrieaagcmiotainnn"gsd;;
          ";
Minorca       a"ndThpereLpiagrhintg    a paper which  he proposed
reading,  on                         thrown on Inca   History and

Polity by Sarmiento," at the Congress of Americanists

to be held in Vienna in September. He was also getting

ready his inaugural address to be delivered at the

opening of the new Geographical Society at Leeds, and

preparing a paper, on the Peruvian Andes, to be read at

the same institution !

His recreation consisted in visiting all the antiquities

and interesting old buildings in the neighbourhood,

studying their histories, and investigating the authen

ticity of previously published accounts. His investiga
tions bore fruit especially at Cintra, where he described

at great length, even to the most minute detail, the

fantastic, almost fictitious, historical events associated

with that interesting old palace. He sketched all the
heraldic devices in the various old castles he visited,

more especially those of Moorish origin, tracing the

pedigrees of the owners for several generations. In

fact, his recreation would probably be regarded by the

ordinary mortal as exceedingly hard and laborious,
346  LATER YEARS  [ch. xx

though perhaps interesting, work. He visited Busaco,
where he was able to portray the battlefield and delineate
the greater part of this interesting old town ; then on to
Salamanca, a town of great interest to Markham, as
being the place where the conference with Columbus

was held prior to his sailing on his memorable voyage.

So on to Bordeaux, Paris, and home--a most agreeable

and interesting tour.
   Four months after his return to England we find him

on his way to Vienna to attend the Congress of American

ists that was being held in that city. The delegates
were received in the Town Hall by the Burgomaster,
who offered them a hearty welcome. But that appears
to be all he had to offer; for, although they sat down
to a large supper directly afterwards, they had to pay
for their meal ! Much wine was consumed, which
perhaps accounts for payment being demanded ! There
was a rather thin attendance.

   The next day the Congress met in the great hall,
the Princess Therese in the chair. Many addresses,

qftMohulaeleor"nkwhteAlaydmmeabrnyirocetaaphndaeiprsetaroSsnpoeacopineoetnryvaotr"hinoewue"s"reSTsatuirhabmehjeniuecanrtenstoaadcaos"as;noadcaninaddtdisecCdushusawsbvesitidenh.

Stones," both of which were well received. Owing to

a bad cold, he was unable to preside on the last day, as

had been prearranged.

   On their journey home they visited Niirnburg in
order to see the famous fifteenth-century globe of

Martin Behaim, who also adapted the astrolabe to pur
poses of navigation in 1480. The globe is preserved in
a special case, but is much discoloured, and shows un-
mistakeable signs of its antiquity.

   On his return to England he delivered his inaugural
address at the Leeds Geographical Society, before a

very large and sympathetic audience, who appreciated
a pointed allusion to the excellent work achieved by
Yorkshire geographers and explorers.
ch.xx]                      LATER YEARS                                       347

    During his life, Markham had one great literary

design in view. This was his great work on the Incas.

He acknowledged in 1909 that he had been making

preparations for its production during the past fifty-six

years ! Being then, however, in his eightieth year,
and feeling the uncertainty of living sufficiently long to

enable him to complete his colossal work, he decided
to write instead, a series of essays and stories of the Incas,

compressed into one volume, so that at least he could

place his own ideas and conclusions on record. The

opinions   which he          held         tw"eHntisytoyryearsof  earlier  he   had
already   published         in his                                Peru."      This

had been translated into Spanish; but, as he naively

puts it, further study had increased his knowledge ;

and thoughts which had been suggested by this aug

mentation of knowledge somewhat modified his pre

"vioBuessidveiesw,"s,   in  rseommaerksc,ase"s   even    altered them entirely.
                                                         give me occupation !"
                       he                       it will
It is almost unnecessary to add, however, that he never

suffered for the lack of something to do ! Accordingly,

in   1910 he           eemntbitoldeided"  his latest     views and  conclusions
in  a volume                              The Incas      of Peru."
                                                                    It is justly

an authoritative work.                                              ,

    During one of his many visits to Lisbon, he went to

Thomar for the purpose of seeing the old convent of

the Order of Christ, which dates from the fifteenth

century. Markham, it will be remembered, had been

created a Commendador of the Order of Christ by King

Luis on the 23rd of April, 1874, and on the occasion of
this visit to the old convent he wore the miniature

order, much to the surprise (and approval) of the old
janitor who kept the keys of the gate. Markham wrote

a very full description of the convent and its history.

    Towards the latter part of 1909, after much pre

liminary discussion and correspondence with Sir

Clements, Captain Scott publicly announced his in

tention of endeavouring to raise funds for the despatch

of another Antarctic Expedition, to be under his
348                      LATER YEARS                  [ch. xx

command, with the express objects of exploring the un

known Antarctic Continent and of reaching the South
Pole. With that conspicuous energy which would
admit of no denial, Scott set to work to justify his
proposal and to plead for monetary assistance, in an

excellent and business-like address which he delivered

at the Mansion House at a meeting presided over by

the Lord Mayor. He propounded his views at several
other public meetings, and he wrote to every society,
company, and individual, that he thought would

support his scheme. As a result of his exertions money
began to flow in. A sum of £500 was subscribed by

the members of the Stock Exchange, £1,000 was

promised   by a subscriber   to his last expedition, and
sums of                     large contributions, some in
          money --some in
small --kept pouring in. Clements Markham himself,

although his income was by no means a large one,

gladly contributed the sum of £100 from his slender

resources.

In a very short time a sufficient sum of money was

collected to warrant the purchase of a ship, and to

organise the expedition. The principal object being

the advancement of science and the exploration of un
known regions, the scientific staff, exclusive of the

captain and surgeon, consisted of no less than nine

members, who were not called upon to perform any ship

duties, but were left free to follow their particular

branches of science. Dr. Wilson again accompanied his

old friend and leader as chief of the scientific staff and

zoologist. The Terra Nova was the ship selected.

Markham willingly consented to join the committee

that superintended the equipment of the ship and the

appointment of the officers and men; but the actual

responsibility of everything connected with the enter
                                                      In fact it
prise  "dSecvootlvt'esd   on Captain Scott himself.   with him,
was
                         Expedition "; it originated
it was arranged by him, and it was organised by him,

the Admiralty assisting only by granting permission
ch. xx]         LATER YEARS                                                             349

for several of the officers and men of the Royal Navy

to serve in the expedition.
   In October of the same year Sir Clements stood god

father to Captain Scott's little boy, who was christened

Peter Markham.

   In the following month, at a meeting of the Council
of the Hakluyt Society, he resigned his office as President.

He had been in the chair for a period of twenty years,

and a member of the Council for no less than fifty-

one years J No man had the welfare of the Society

more at heart than Markham, and no one could have

accomplished more for the Society than he did. During

his long connection with it, he translated and edited

on an average about one book a year for a period of

half a century, and all these works required much

elaborate  ohrneisseh"aisrBc"ho.oMkagHoefelltawhnea'ssKsnStotilrwlalheitad,rg"deaanotdfwwAoalrlsk,tchowellheeKcntininghge

resigned,
notes for

dthoemsS,ocLiaetnyd, s,beasniddeLsowrdrsithinipgs,htisha"t  are in  otfhePeWruor"ld!,"  for
                                                            Incas

Prior to the departure of the Terra Nova, a large

luncheon-party was given by the Royal Geographical

Society to Captain Scott and his officers at the Holborn

Restaurant, to which a number of old Polar officers

were invited. Major Darwin, as President of the Society,

occupied the chair, and many naval officers were present.

Markham proposed the toast of the staff of the ex

pedition.

   On the 1 st of June the Terra Nova sailed from London,
and proceeded to Portsmouth, Clements Markham being

a passenger on board. Everything worked well, but

what pleased him more than anything else was the willing

spirit that animated everyone on board, and he was

delighted to see members of the scientific staff in their

shirt-sleeves assisting in stowing the hold, and a Captain

of the Enniskillen Dragoons hard at work getting up

the ashes ! On leaving the ship at Portsmouth, the

officers and crew gave him three hearty cheers. They
350  LATER YEARS  [ch. xx

knew that he was their best friend, that he would look
after their interests in their absence, and that he would
arrange, if necessary, for their relief. On his return
to London, he succeeded in getting the surplus money
from the Discovery fund turned over to that of the
Terra Nova, much to the gratification and relief of

Captain Scott.
CHAPTER XXI

SCOTT'S LAST EXPEDITION-- THE END

On the nth of June, at Leeds, Markham received the

distinction of being made a Doctor of Science of the
Leeds University. There were thirteen recipients for
the honour, among whom may be mentioned Mr. Asquith,
the Marquis of Lansdowne, the Speaker, the Earl of
Crewe, and Lord Rayleigh.

   The Duke of Devonshire, as the Chancellor, delivered

the address and conferred the degrees. Referring to
Markham, he said :

   " In Sir Clements Markham I have to present to you

one who comes among us as a veteran in the service
of mankind, one whose life has been the expression in
countless achievements of a mind extraordinary in
power and versatility, a nature full of enthusiasm and
tenacity, and an ambition directed to the noblest ends.
Beginn1ng with his participation in the heroic search for
Franklin, the record of geographical exploration in
both hemispheres and towards both poles that stands
to the name of Sir Clements Markham would alone secure
his fame. But beyond this he has been for sixty years
the inspiration of English geographical science, the
leader of the movement which has given that subject
a new orientation in the realms of knowledge, and has
secured for it an honourable and independent position

in the highest courts of learning. It is almost entirely
owing to his unwearied advocacy, combined with an
tuhnaertr1Engngljaunddgmisenttakiinngthheerchporioceudofpamrteninanthde  methods,
                                                                          new era
of Antarctic discovery. To have established in our
Indian Empire, as he did by the indefatigable efforts
of a few years, the cultivation of a prophylactic for its

35*
352          SCOTT'S LAST EXPEDITION                       [en xx1

desolating malarial disease, was a service to humanity
such as few may hope to render by the undivided
labours of a lifetime. Yet among these diverse and
momentous deeds Sir Clements Markham has inter
woven   the  achievements of                                man of letters,
        we   had not thought  a distinguished
and if                         he would be                 honoured most
acceptably in the Faculty of Science, he might have
claimed not less worthily the laurels of a Faculty of
Arts. In his intense and oft expressed love of England
which he has so nobly served, of Yorkshire of which
he is so true a son, and of the Navy in which he gradu
ated so honourably in the early discipline of life, Sir
ChilmemewnthsatMaherkhias--m adismcalonsesbythewshpomirit  which has made
                                                           his countrymen
would eagerly proclaim the deep-seated and most
sterling qualities of their race."

   A very true and excellent portrayal of the subject

of this memoir.

   In July, 191 o, Markham went to Bristol to assist in

the ceremony of unveiling the Hakluyt memorial in
the cathedral, and delivered an address in honour of

that worthy divine and author.

    He was occupied at this time in writing the biography
of the Spanish navigator Sebastian del Cano, who
sailed with Magellan in the early part of the sixteenth
century. After the death of Magellan he succeeded
to the command, and was the first circumnavigator of

the globe.
   Markham received many letters from his friends on

board the Terra Nova from the various ports at which

she touched on her long journey to the South. All

were in excellent spirits, they reported well of their

ship; and love and harmony prevailed among officers

and men. Needless to say, they all looked forward with
keen and joyful anticipation to the complete success
of the great work with which they had been entrusted.

   Prior to the sailing of the expedition, Dr. Wilson
had presented to Sir Clements and Lady Markham two
very beautiful water-colour drawings, of Mount Markham
and Minna Bluff in the Far South, which he had painted
ch. xx1] SCOTT'S LAST EXPEDITION  353

specially for them. It was a kindly act, and one which

was much appreciated by them both. Markham's
thoughts were ever flying towards the South, ever
thinking of his dear friends on board the Terra Nova,
and looking forward to the pleasure of welcoming them
back to England, crowned with success.

    While at Mont Estoril in March, 191 2, news was
telegraphed from New Zealand to the effect that Captain
Scott with a sledging-party had reached the latitude

of 870 32' on the 3rd of January, 191 2, and that he

hoped to reach the Pole, which was only 150 miles off,

in about a fortnight's time. A rumour had also been

telegraphed to the effect that Amundsen had already
reached the South Pole with his dog-drawn sledges,
 though Markham put but little credence in the report.

 He had always been much incensed at what he con
sidered Amundsen's unfriendly act, in having first pub
licly announced his intention of attempting to reach the

 North Pole, and then suddenly altering his plans and
 proceeding in exactly the opposite direction, immedi
 ately Scott had left England, thus, as it were, entering
 into competition with him.

    Amundsen's expedition was in no way initiated in the
interests of science ; his intention was to make a dash for

 the Pole, so as to be able to claim priority of discovery
 for Norway, and nothing more. He was accompanied
 by only four men, none of whom had any pretensions
 to scientific acquirements. Scott, on the other hand,

 intended making a thorough scientific exploration, and
 was not to be inveigled into taking part with another

 competitor in a senseless race to the Pole. It will be

 noted that Amundsen concealed his intention of going
 to the South until after Scott had sailed, which certainly
 did not evince a kindly disposition towards the English

 enterprise. Better and more valuable results would

 undoubtedly have been obtained had the two expeditions
 worked in unison one with the other. The Norwegians
 have the satisfaction of being able to say that their
354         SCOTT'S LAST EXPEDITION                        [ch. xx1

flag was the first to be planted at the South Pole; but
the scientific results achieved cannot be compared with
those obtained by the English expedition. The latter
brought back with them a rich store of information both

geographical and geological, with elaborate plans and

surveys of the surrounding country, with complete
climatic and other observations, extending over a
period of nearly two years, all of which were absolutely
new to science. They had set themselves to endeavour
to determine the nature and extent of the Antarctic
Continent; to ascertain the character and depth of the

ice cap; to take pendulum observations in the highest

latitude possible, as well as regular magnetic and
meteorological observations; to give an account of the

mammals, birds, and fishes, and otherwise to report

on the scientific aspect of the new discoveries. All of
this was satisfactorily accomplished. In short, the

results achieved by the English expedition far surpassed
any that had ever been obtained by previous Polar ex

peditions.

   Having in 191 2 completed fifty years of strenuous
service on the Council of the Royal Geographical

Society, Markham sent in his resignation as Vice-

President, and after some little correspondence this was

accepted. He was now eighty- two years of age, and
it appeared to him that there was an absence of sympathy

between himself and the new Councillors which, in his

opinion, did not promote the harmony or add to the

usefulness and prosperity of the Society. Another

consideration was that he was much occupied in collect

ing notes for a history of the Polar Regions. He had

already gathered a vast amount of information on the

subject, and this he wished to condense and produce

in book form. He aimed at producing a perfect com

pendium    o"f  everything  otfhathtewaEsarkthno"wnfroomf  what might
be called       the Ends                                     prehistoric

times to the present day, including the names and work

of the various explorers, the geology and botany, and


ch.xx1] SCOTT'S LAST EXPEDITION                         355

the localities at which human beings had been met,
with their origin and manners and customs; also all

information in connection with the animal kingdom
in higher latitudes represented in known positions, etc.
The wish to have a little more time at his disposal in
which to complete this work, in all probability, had a

great deal to do with his retirement from the Council,
for his position as Vice-President necessitated his pre

sence at the numerous committees which met so fre

quently. Although this last book has not yet been

presented to the public, we may state that Dr. Guille-
mard has undertaken the editing, and that it will shortly

be published by the Cambridge University Press.

In spite of his great age, he continued to live a very

active life. His pen was as busy as ever translating

and  editing various works for        the  hHisak"luCyotnqSuoecsitetyo,f
and  correcting the proof-sheets      of

New Granada," and he never neglected to pay his annual

visit, in the summer, to his Scandinavian resorts, and

in the winter to Mont Estoril.

On retiring from the Council, he wrote a letter of

farewell to the President, Council, and Fellows of the

Society, to which he received a most gratifying reply

from Lord Curzon (the President), expressing in most
cordial terms the great loss the Society was sustaining

by his resignation, but expressing a hope that his

"adwvhicoe  would always be at   the  disposal  of the  Council,
            still regard you as  our  greatest  living  figure."

Thus, after a continuous service of fifty-four years on

the Council, and fifty-eight years as a Fellow, his

intimate connection with the Society, as one of its

officials, came to an end. He also wrote a letter of

farewell to Dr. Keltie and the staff, to which he received

a most touching reply.
At about this time he was elected President of the

Americanist Congress, and presided at its first meeting

in London, delivering the inaugural address, in which,

by command of His Majesty, he offered the delegates
356  SCOTT'S LAST EXPEDITION  [ch. xxi

a cordial welcome in the name of the King. Three

dinner-parties on three successive nights were given
by him and Lady Markham at Eccleston Square, at
which forty-four guests were entertained, followed by
a large reception at the Natural History Museum, at
which they received the delegates.

   The Antarctic Expedition was constantly in his
thoughts, and he delivered several lectures, at various
places, connected with the work on which Captain
Scott was engaged. He also read a special paper on
the subject at the meeting of the British Association in

Dundee.

  On the nth of February, 191 3, while they were at

Mont Estoril came the appalling news that Scott and
his party had reached the South Pole on the 18th of
January the previous year, but that on their return
journey, in a great blizzard, only eleven miles from their
next depot of provision, they had all perished. It
was a sad but glorious termination to an expedition
excellently arranged, heroically led, and gallantly
carried out. The story is and will always remain an
epic of British pluck and endurance, combined with

resolution, patience, and unselfishness.

   To Markham it came as a terrible shock, and at first
he was unable to realise the extent of the calamity.
He loved Scott as a son, he was intimately acquainted
with every member of that gallant little band, and he
loved them for their brave devotion to one another,

for their high-spirited chivalry, for their lion-hearted,
courage, but about all he loved them for themselves.
His heart ached for the sorrow that would be felt by

the widows of those splendid men, who had sacrificed

their lives in adding glory and honour to the long list
of England's stalwart champions. He looked upon

Captain Scott as a "very exceptionally noble English
man." Not least, he was impressed by Scott's chivalrous
generosity in dealing with men who were endeavouring
for their personal ambitions, to supplant him in the work
ch.xx1] SCOTT'S LAST EXPEDITION                        357

which he had thoughtfully planned out for himself.
Vghereeraywtroqrtuaear, leitl"iye,sthiebneemnMoasctrokmshbtariminkei'nds gionqpouinnaieloitnmy, anwh.aasve"thPsaeotrhwmahpaiscn,h"y

won him the love of all who served under him."
   Through the instrumentality of Clements Markham,

a memorial service was held at Mont Estoril for his dear

friend and his companions, which was attended by the

English and German Ministers accredited to Portugal,

and many British and foreign residents. Personally he

felt  that  this quiet    service, devoid of  all  ostentation,
was   more  soothing                          any  rate to him
                        and comforting --at
--than the one held in St. Paul's Cathedral. Yet he

was grateful for the recognition of their brilliant services

so unostentatiously, but so convincingly, shown by the

King in being present at the memorial service held in

London. Markham wrote a long memorial letter to

The Times, which was duly inserted ; and he also wrote to

the Prime Minister suggesting that posthumous honours

should be conferred on Captain Scott's widow, which

was favourably received and immediately acted upon.
   To the end of his life the tragic fate of Scott and his

companions was ever present in his mind. He felt
their loss, not only from a personal point of view, but

in a national sense ; and he lost no opportunity in honour

ing their memories on all and every occasion. At

Cheltenham he unveiled the memorial that had been

erected to commemorate Dr. Wilson's great services.

It was a statue of the explorer in sledging costume, the

work of Lady Scott. The ceremony was carried out in

the presence of many relatives and friends. He also
accompanied Mrs. Bowers to Greenhithe in order to
unveil a plaque dedicated to the memory of Lieutenant

Bowers, which was to be placed on board the Worcester.

It had been subscribed for by the cadets of the training

ship to the memory of their plucky young shipmate.

It consisted of a bronze plate containing his portrait

with a suitable inscription ; it was placed against the

                                                   24
358  SCOTT'S LAST EXPEDITION  [ch. xx1

mainmast immediately under the ship's bell. Before
unveiling the memorial, Sir Clements addressed the
assembled cadets at some length, paying a high tribute
of praise to the young hero, and holding him up as a

worthy example to be followed.
   He also travelled to Stratford-on-Avon to be present

at the dedication of the west window of Binton Church
to the memory of his dear friend Scott. There was a
great procession of clergy with prayers, anthems,
hymns, and an address by the Rev. Dr. Bruce; after
which the ceremony of unveiling was performed by

the Duke of Newcastle.
   Two years later, on the 5 th of November, 191 5, he

assisted, by invitation of the First Sea Lord of the
Admiralty, at the unveiling of the statue of Captain
Scott in Waterloo Place, which had been subscribed
for by the officers of the Royal Navy. The ceremony
of unveiling was performed by the First Lord of the
Admiralty, Mr. Balfour. The designer and sculptor
was Lady Scott. The likeness is excellent, the great
explorer being depicted in Antarctic travelling dress.

   On the return of the Discovery, the Trustees of the
British Museum kindly gave permission for the cases
containing the natural history specimens to be sent to
the Museum at South Kensington, with a view to

preparing for publication the scientific results of the
collection. That the work should be entrusted to the

Museum authorities was Markham's express wish.
   Their report is comprised in six large quarto volumes,

in the production of which no trouble or expense has
been spared in order to render the natural history
results of the expedition worthy of the splendid efforts

of Captain Scott and his fellow-explorers. The work is
not only an enduring memorial of the expedition, but
also, incidentally, of Markham's great share in its promo
tion and organisation.

   In 191 3 a deputation of old Westminsters waited upon

him with a request that he would sit for his portrait,
ch.xx1] SCOTT'S LAST EXPEDITION                             359

which they were anxious should be painted, with the

object of being presented to him. They wished him

to accept it as a slight acknowledgment of the great

services he had rendered to the school. Mr. George
Henry, A.R.A., most good-naturedly consented to paint

it. Markham was much gratified at this kindly feeling

shown towards him by his old school, and willingly

consented to sit for the portrait. The result exceeded

even the anticipation. It was in every way a most

successful production, and the presenters are to be

congratulated on their choice of the artist.* The

presentation of the picture was made to him at Cam

bridge by Sir Roland Vaughan Williams before a large

gathering of friends as well as subscribers.

In addition to all these functions,          hCithshuetpima"seG"wueafrosrrafutlhdlyee

occupied in  "  translating  "  and editing
las Salinas      and the        Guerra de

Hakluyt Society.   He likewise prepared      oanndthreead"  a paper
at the Historical  Congress in London                       Loss of

Documents relating to Historical Geography, and the

fMlaoetriao"nnsScoooffttp's"resGLeaarsrvctiniagExdtphaeedmiOti.or"tna,"H" eaanandldsofiwhniirssohtee"dDtheheisscprrtierpaftanivcsee
List of Amazonian Tribes." This latter work necessi

tated an enormous amount of research, and would have

been a severe task for a man in the prime of life. He

was then over eighty-five years of age, but his mental

powers were as active and as bright as ever.
   The European War gave him great cause for anxiety,
and he followed the course of it with absorbing interest.
A heavy personal blow fell upon him in the loss of his
cousin, Major R. A. Markham, the head of the Markham

family, who died on October 25, 1914, at Boulogne from

wounds received at the battle of Ypres-Armentieres two

days before .f
   * The portrait is reproduced as the frontispiece of this volume.
  t Major Markham left England with his regiment, the 2nd. Datt.

Coldstream Guards, on August 12, 1914 --eight days after the declara
tion of war. He was with his regiment during the heroic retreat from
360        SCOTT'S LAST EXPEDITION                   [ch. xxi

to  On  the 1oth of June, 191 5, he read what was    destined
        his last paper at the Geographical Society.
    be                                                In it he

animadverted on the false German claim to having

supplied the scientific data which enabled the Portuguese

to extend their discoveries. The title of his address was
"The History of the Gradual Development of the Ground
work of Geographical Science." At the conclusion of the
paper he submitted a proposal that the Society should

be possessed of a collection, as complete as possible,
of all instruments connected with nautical astronomy
and navigation from the earliest times. A few instru
ments and models were exhibited at the lecture, and an

interesting discussion was initiated.
   In spite of the war, he and Lady Markham did not
abandon their periodical trips abroad. Mont Estoril
was visited as usual, and they even paid a long visit to
the island of Madeira. They returned from their last

trip to Portugal by sea on the 2nd of May, 191 5, and
arrived at Liverpool, luckily without having seen axry

indications of hostile submarines. Every preparation

had been made on board in readiness for the immediate

abandonment of the ship, an evolution in which Sir

Clements was much interested, but, fortunately, extreme

measures were not rendered necessary. On the dawn

of the New Year (1916) he writes:

    " A very sad and portentous New Year. At home,
the enem1es of effic1ent methods of resistance still
clinging to office. Abroad, Belgium, Northern France,
Poland, Serbia, conquered, and in the hands of the
enemy; passenger sh1ps ruthlessly sunk in defiance of
international law and the Hague Convention, supported
by American protests; yet here in England there is
no sign of despondency;       everyone confident
right must preva1l, and with   it civilisation and      that
tianity."                                            Chris

Mons -- took part in the decisive victory of the Marne -- stood side bv
side with the French at the battle of the Aisne, and was mortally
wounded at the battle of Ypres-Armentieres, on October 23.
ch.xx1] SCOTT'S LAST EXPEDITION  361

   The last entry in his diary was made on the 18th of
January. Almost his last thoughts were connected with

his dear friend Scott. He writes :
   " Sturdy little Peter Scott came and walked with

us in the Square garden. I often think of his dear

father and the men he has trained to fight his country's
battles."

   On the 29th, having been confined to his room for
some days by an attack of gout, he was sitting in bed
reading, by the light of a naked candle, a book printed

in old Portuguese. It is assumed he was holding the

candle close to the book, the better to decipher the

letterpress, when by some accident the bedclothes became
ignited, probably by the fall of the candle. His call for

assistance was instantly responded to, and the fire
extinguished, but, alas ! the great shock was too much
for a man of his years. He remained mercifully uncon
scious for about twenty hours, when he passed peacefully
away.

   Thus ended a long life of hard and useful work
thoroughly enjoyed. His home life was simple, but

replete with happiness and contentment ; he was always
mindful of others and forgetful of self. His childhood,
especially his school-life, and the young friends that in
the course of years became old friends, were blissful

reminiscences to him. He had outlived nearly all his

contemporaries, but their good-fellowship and friendly
regard were to him sweet memories of the past. He

possessed an astonishing and most retentive memory,

and he taxed it to the utmost. He never forgot any
thing he had once heard, seen, or read. Yet, in spite
of this wonderful gift, he always retained the habit of
noting in his pocketbook everything that he saw, no
matter how trivial and insignificant it might appear to

others. Especially was this the case in visiting old
cathedrals, castles, or churches, when their exact dimen
sions would be carefully measured and noted.
362  SCOTT'S LAST EXPEDITION  [ca xn

   He was a quick writer, an excellent observer; clever
in mastering a foreign language; a great judge of
character; prompt in making up his mind; impulsive,
especially in righting a wrong ; a man of great determina
tion ; a stanch friend ; and of a most lovable disposition.

    Peru was his first love, Polar exploration his second;
and to both he remained constant to the end. On

Peruvian subjects his publications amounted to more

than a score, exclusive of lectures and addresses. The

crown of his Polar work lay beyond his writings, in the
excellent work achieved by Captain Scott in the far

distant Antarctic Regions. It is left for others to follow

him and glean the rich scientific harvest that is await

ing the explorer in the far South ; but the main achieve
ment must for all time be associated with Scott's name,

and with that of his mentor and counsellor Clements

Markham.
   In method, he was careful to think out his subject

conscientiously before making it public; he never
wrote with the object of making money. His chief
endeavour was to maintain and enhance the spirit of

enterprise among his countrymen on sea and on land;
and his success in this field alone, apart from his
share in benefiting India and his great furtherance of
geography, would suffice to keep his name in ever

lasting remembrance.
   During the latter part of his life, he was undoubtedly

the greatest living authority on geographical science.
By his death there has passed away a distinguished man
of whom his country may well be proud ; but with his
departure a prodigious accumulation of geographical
knowledge of the utmost importance has also passed
away
        APPENDIX A

   The following letters and telegrams of condolence and
sympathy on the death of her husband were received
by his widow, Lady Markham:

   Telegram sent to Lady Markham by H.M. the King : " The

King regrets to hear of the sorrow which has befallen you, and

desires me to convey to you the expression of his sympathy.
His Majesty had known Sir Clements for many years, and
realises how much the country is indebted to his long years of

study and research. --Stamfordham."

   The  Naval Commander-in-Chief      aMt aDrkehvaomnpo:rt,"   Admiral Sir
        Egerton, telegraphed to Lady                          With deepest
George

sympathy and sorrow at the loss of dear old Sir Clements from

his devoted and admiring shipmate Sir George Egerton."

  Dr. Nansen telegraphed from his home in Norway : " Afflicted
at the loss of my very dear friend. I mourn with you in your

great bereavement."

   General Sir Reginald Wingale cabled from Khartoum : " All

fellows in Sudan deeply regret Sir Clements Markham 's death."

onTrheecoCrodm"miittsteeseonfsethoef  Royal Societies' Club in London   placed
                                       the loss the Club has sustained  by the

lamented death of Sir Clements Markham, who for many years

was President of the Club, and contributed so much to its

welfare in the early years of its existence," etc.

   Letters and telegrams of sympathy and regret for the loss
sustained were also received from eminent and distinguished

men, especially those interested and associated with geographical
research, such as Nansen, Guido Cora, Sven Hedin, Joachim
Bensaude, and many others, all testifying to the high estima
tion in which he was held by the geographers of other nations.

                                                3^
364 APPENDIX A

   From the Officers            and Council     fepoliftontbehyeer.R"" othyeMalowsAthnootlhfero"psuoclsioegnhictaiavfliec
Institute, expressing           the sorrow
                                so brilliant a
world by the loss of

lost more than a leader in archaeology, a friend for whose per

sonality we entertained a deep-rooted and sincere affection.

The extent of his learning was only equalled by the great gen

erosity with which he placed his knowledge at the service of

those who had the privilege to know him."

The Council of the Hakluyt Society, with whom he had been
                                                     which time the Society
hasasdoci"ateendjoyfoerd  over  sixty years, during  unwearied labour. His
                           the  direct benefits of
name added lustre to its public reputation --a lustre created by

his varied accomplishments in geographical science, by his

achievements in exploration, and by bis other and manifold

service to the State and humanity."
   The Royal Society " express their deep sense of the loss which

the Royal Society has sustained, and of the eminent services

which Sir Clements rendered to Science."

   The Members             of the  Elizabethan   Cfelueblin, gof"wthhaicth   he was Presi
dent for many             years,   unite in the                             they have lost

a personal friend," and comment on his stanch loyalty to West

minster, which endeared him to everyone connected with the

school and its surroundings.

   The Council of the Royal Geographical Society " desire to place

on record their profound sense of the loss which the Society and

Geography have sustained by the death of Sir Clements Mark-

ham, who had been intimately connected with the Society for

over sixty years during the greater part of which he was officially

associated with its affairs. He was indefatigable in the pro
motion of the objects for which the Society exists. He took a

prominent part in all the development of its work, scientific

and educational. The recent renewal of Antarctic exploration

on a large scale was mainly due to his initiative, enthusiasm, and

energy. By his sympathetic attitude towards all the members

of the Staff he secured devoted loyalty not only to himself, but

to the best interests of the Society. His death will be felt as a

personal loss by geographers all the world over."

    From the President of the French Geographical Society .* ** The
news of the death of Sir Clements Markham has been rece1ved
                APPENDIX A                                                     365

with unanimous and unfeigned regret. His eminent services to
Geographical Science, more especially to Polar Exploration, will
live for all time."

   The President of the Geographical Society of Geneva : " Le mort
de Sir Clements R. Markham, president d'honneur de votre

Soci6te\ nous a 6t aussi tres terrible, puisque Sir Clemente fait

aussi membre honoraire de la Soci&e- de Geographic de Geneve.

Le Bureau de notre Soci&e ni a done officiellement charge," etc.

From the Royal Danish Geographical Society : Calling to mind

the great loss among the staff of famous English Arctic Explorers

which  thEengSlaoncidetyhaws isshuff"erteod    by the death of Sir   Clements   Mark-
ham,                                         express its heartfelt  and most   cordial

sympathy."

   The Norwegian Geographical Society sends " sincere sympathy
in the great loss that Geographical Science has sustained by the

death of Sir Clements Markham."
   The Council of the Italian Royal Geographical Society " send an

expression of their deep sorrow for the loss of the illustrious
pioneer of Arctic Exploration." j

    The Geographical Society of Philadelphia " places on record
its sense of the loss sustained by the science of geography in the

loss of one of its most distinguished disciples, . . . who has
earned for himself a foremost place among geographers by his
energetic promotion of Arctic and Antarctic exploration, by his
advocacy of higher geographical education, by his sympathetic

attitude towards prospective explorers, and by his numerous
and illuminating contributions to geographical literature."

Tributes of sorrow for his loss, and praise for his work, were

received from Sweden, and from far-distant Arequipa; also from
the Elizabethan Club, of which he was President for many years,

the Kosmos Club, the Vesey Club at Birmingham, and from

many other eminent and distinguished geographers of all

nationalities.
                      APPENDIX B

WORKS PUBLISHED BY SIR CLEMENTS MARKHAM

   Year of                            Edited by C. R. M.
Publication.

1853. Franklin's Footsteps.
1854. History of the Markham Family.
1856. Cuzco and Lima.
1862. Travels in Peru and India.

1864. Quichua Grammar and Dictionary.
1867. Report on the Irrigation of Eastern Spain.

1869. The Abyssinian Expedition.

1870. life of the Great Lord Fairfax.
1870 et seq. Ocean Highways, etc.: A Geographical Periodical,

             Edited by C. R. M.

1871. Ollanta: An Ancient Inca Drama.
1871. A Memoir of the Indian Surveys. (Published by order

            of the Secretary of State for India. Two Editions).
1873. Threshold of the Unknown Regions. (Four Editions.)
1874. A General Sketch of the History of Persia.

1874. Memoir of the Countess of Chinchon.
1874. India: Moral and Material Progress Report. (Presented to

              Parliament, 1874.)
1874. India: Moral and Material Progress Report. (Presented

              to Parliament, 1875.)

1875. The Arctic Navy List : A Century of Arctic and Antarctic

              Officers, 1773 to 1875.
1875. Refutation of the Report of the Scurvy Committee.
1876. Missions to Tibet, Bogle and Manning. (Published by

             order of the Secretary of State for India. Two Editions.)
1876. Memoir of Commodore Goodenough.
1879. Akbar : An Eastern Romance. With Notes and an

           Introductory Life of the Emperor Akbar by C. R. M.

1880. Peruvian Bark.

                      366

                                                                        i
                  APPENDIX B                                367

   Year of
Publication.

1880. Peru.

1881. Fifty Years' Work of the Royal Geographical Society.

1882. War between Peru and Chile, 1879- 1882.
1883. A Naval Career during the Old War: being a Narrative of

             the Life of Admiral John Markham.
1884. The Sea-Fathers.
1885. A Family Memoir of the Macdonalds of Keppoch.
1885. Life of Admiral Robert Fairfax.

1885. Battle of Wakefield. (Yorkshire Archaeological Journal.)
1887. Battle of Towton. (Yorkshire Archaeological Journal.)
1887. Prince Edward of Lancaster. (Transactions of Bristol

               and Gloucestershire Archaeological Society.)

1888.  The Fighting Veres. (Published in America.)
       Liie of John Davis the Navigator, 1550-1603.
1889.  History of Peru. (Translated into Spanish. Published in
1892.

       Chicago.)

1892. Display of English Heraldry at Budrum.

1892. Quichua Dictionary.
1892. Life of Christopher Columbus.
1893. Pytheas, the Discoverer of Britain. (R. G. S. Journal.)
1895. Life of Captain Stephen Martin Leake. Edited for the

             Navy Records Society by C. R. M.

1895. Arctic and Antarctic Exploration.
1895. Life of Major Rennell, and the Rise of Modern English

              Geography.
1895. Descriptive List of Amazonian Tribes.
1896. The Paladins of Edwin the Great : An Historical Romance.

1898. Antarctic Exploration : A Plea for a National Expedition,

               etc.

1899.  Alfred the Great as a Geographer.          Compendium
1901.  Central and South America, for Stanford's

          of Geography.

1904. Letters of Admiral John Markham. (Navy Records
              Society.)

1906.  Memoir of Archbishop Markham.                 Incas  of
1906.
1907.  Life of Richard III.
1908.
       Life of Edward VI. : An Appreciation.

       Vocabularies of the General Languages of the
           Peru.

1908. Translation of Lazariello de Tonnes.
368 APPENDIX B

   Year of
Publication.

1908. Story of Majorca and Minorca.
1909. Life of Sir Leopold M'Clintock.
1910. The Incas of Peru.
1912. The Conquest of New Granada.

1913. Markham Memorials : A New Edition of the History of the
             Markham Family.

1913. Translation of Garcia da Orta. (Colloquies on the Drags
             and Simples of India.)

        Now in the Press. The History of Polar Exploration.

   In addition to the works enumerated                                                                 atbhoeve",  Sir Clements
cBMhraairtpkathneanrmsicoan,c"oPneatrrnuiboutfhoteerdr Witntohsorer"'esCha"artNmicablreersarsti'vsteo
                                                                                                                   Encyclopaedia

                                                                                                       Encyclopaedia," two
                                                                                                       and Critical History
coof vAemryeirnicaL,a"irdandClohwe ews'rsot"e
                                                all the  chapters on voyages                                       of dis
                                               History   of the Navy."

He was also the writer of numerous papers and articles in the

Royal Geographical Society's Journal and Proceedings, including

twelve anniversary presidential addresses.

   He lectured frequently to the cadets on board the Worcester
and Conway, also at the Society of Arts, the Royal Institution,
the Society of Antiquaries.the Royal United Service Institution,

and many other Societies, schools, etc.
                       APPENDIX C

  BOOKS EDITED FOR THE HAKLUYT SOCIETY BY
                   SIR CLEMENTS MARKHAM

(Many of them translated by h1m from the Span1sh)

Expeditions into the Valley of the Amazons (a.d. 1539, 1540,

        1639)-

Narrative of the Embassy of Ruy Gonzalez de Clavijo to the
       Court of Timour at Samarcand (a.d. 1403-1406).

The Expedition of Pedro de Ursua and Lope de Aguirre (a.d.

        1560-61).

The Life and Acts of Don Alonzo Enriquez de Guzman (a.d.

        1518-1543).                                     Indies.
The Travels of Pedro de Cieza de Leon (1532-50).
Narrative of the Proceedings of Pedrarias Davila.

The Royal Commentaries of the Incas (2 vols.)
Reports on the Discovery of Peru.
Narrative of the Rites and Laws of the Incas.

The Voyages of Sir James Lancaster, Knt., to the East
The Hawkins Voyages.

The Natural and Moral History of the Indies (2 vols.).
The Voyages of William Baffin (1612-1622).
The Second Part of the Chronicle of Peru (1532-1550)
Tractatus de Globis, et eorum Usu.

Journal of Christopher Columbus.
The Letters of Amerigo Vespucci.

Narratives of the Voyages of Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa to the

       Straits of Magellan (1579-80).
The Voyages of Pedro Fernandez de Quiros (1595-1606).
The Guanches of Teneriffe, The Holy Image of Our Lady of

Candelaria.

History of the Incas.

                       369
37o APPENDIX C

Narrative of the Viceregal Embassy to Vilcabambal, etc. (1571).
Magellan's Strait.
Book of the Knowledge of All the Kingdoms, Lands, and Lord

      ships, that are in the World.
The War of Quito.
La Guerra de Chupas.
Guerra de las Salinas.
                                             INDEX

Aberdare. Lord, President Royal                    AAAnnnndnaerepssloelyi(sg,uBiadNyea),v, aB1la5sA4e,cac1da5me7mp yoaf tA, b2y7s0
   Geographical             Society, 254
AAbberurdzzeie, n,Du29k4e  of the, 327, 342        AA" nnAstsinaontlnioaa,,rncAt2Edi1cxm4pierRadeli,stieo7an5r,ch2,1"3,   221
Abyssinia, early history of, 207,
   208; cause of war with England;                                                                                       Article
   military operations in, 211-217;                                                                                                 in
   battle and capture of Magdala,                  AArpatoohgf,e,o"1nG7,25r8a5p" hPiecdoignr,e2e84 of
   217; death of King Theodore, 217,
   2F1o8rc; eQlueeaevnes,of2, 21219, 220; British                                                                        the   Kings

Active, H.M.S., 275-281, 282, 284.                 Arapa, Lake. 192
    286, 287, 294, 296,                            Arctic Highlanders. See Eskimos
Aculeo, Lake, 92            297                    Arequipa, 136, 174, 175,
                                                                                                                         190,
Adigrat, Base camp of Abyssinian                   Argyll, Duke of,                                                            192
                                                   AArnrco1g,an45t, H.M.S.,
   Expedition, 213, 214                                                      323
Admiralty, decline to recommend                                                106
                                                   Ashby, Mr., H. M.S. Colling wood,
   the despatch of an Antarctic                    Asia, H.M.S.,                                                                  132
   expedition, 317; promise to lend                Asquith, Mr.,        96,
   off1cers and men, 321; assume                                        351  97

   responsibility for despatch of                  Assisi, 289    H1.Mn.;S.s, oirFereasnkolnin
   second Discovery relief expe                    Assistance,                                                                   relief
  mdition. 335. 336                                                                                                            board,
                                 relief ship,         ship, 108,
Advance. U.S. Franklin                                   113; reaches Whalefish Islands,
   n                                                     114; in Melville Bay, 114; enters
Africa, encouragement of explora                         Lancaster Sound, 116; beset in
   tion in,                                              the ice in Wellington Channel,
"  Akbar,    L2if2e4  of,"                               117; winter entertainments. 121,
                            261
Albert Hall, reception of the
   officers and men of the Discovery                   122;      return from the           Arctic.                             127
   and Morning at, 337, 338                        Aurora        Borealis, Arctic          journal,                             113.

                                                         120
Alcobaca,                                          Austin, Captain Horatio, 108, no,
Aldrich,   Lie2u9t6enant,   sledge  journey
                                                         126
   to Somerville Island. 118
Alert, H.M.S., 231, 242, 244, 249                  Ayacucho, 147, 149
Alexandra,                                         Azangaro, 180
Alhambra,
             dQeusecernip, ti3o3n0 of the, 343           Baffin's Bay, search for the Erchus
Allan, Captain P. B. M., viii                               and  Terror in.
                                                         Baird,   Admiral    112. 116.                                   126, 230
"AlmAlctroia.de 2T9o6 ledo," The, 176                                                                                      H.M.'S.
AAmmae1rnic,a,30"0 History of," 252, 295                                     Sir John.
American Geographical Society, 270                       Grampus, 82
Americanist Congress, 355. 356                     Balearic      IMslra. nAd.s,J.3, 43327
Amundsen, dash for the South Pole,                 Balfour,

                                                         Barbacoes, 133
                                                         Barbados, 278
                                                   BBaarrceenlotsna,Sea3, 43Leigh Smith's expe
An3d5e3r, The, 92, 144-147                               dition to, 254

                                                   37 »
372 INDEX

Baring, Mr. (afterwards Lord North-                                                          1  Busaco,    D4o6ctor,  331
   brook), Secretary of State for                                                            ]  Busby,
   India,                                                                                       Byron's Bay, 53
Barrow     S1tr9a9it,  Franklin  relief ships
winter in, 118                                                                                  Cabots, " Voyages of the," 308
BBBBaaaatssteqaisluli,hsekaS,,Pirr2H.o9.v6HM,in..Sc2W.e9.s7.,,63lAescstiusrteanotn,Se2c5r7e     Cadiz, 295, 296
                                                                                                Cagni, Captain.                      Duke                   of the
                                                                                                   Abruzzi's expedition, 327
tary, Royal Geographical Society,                                                               CCaallcicau, t,151695, 196
                                                                                                Callao, 38, 48, 75, 86-90,                           162, 163
    224    Island,               for Franklin                                                   Calypso, H.M.S., 275                               geography,
                        search                                                                  Cambridge, School                    of
Bathurst       near, 125
   expedition    American
Bayard, Mr.,                                  Ambassa                                           225; Board of Geograph1cal
dor, at Franklin commemoration                                                                  Studies, 342
dinner, 314; farewell dinner to,                                                                Campbell-Bannerman. Mr..
                                                                                                Cameron, Captain, British                                   344
    322    Admiral,                                                                             CainnchAabryasnsiinMiao,un2t0a9in, 178                       Consul
Beechey,   Martin,                                                                              Cafiete (Peru), 138, 140
Behaim,                    fi1ft6e7enth-century

    globe of,  34H6.M.S.,  100,               101                                               Cangallo, 147
Bellerophon.                                                                                    Cano, Sebastian del, first circum
Ben Nevis,
Bcnthall,      M3r1.,9  master                at West                                              navigator of the globe,                         352
                                                                                                Capri, 302
   minster  Sc"hDooisl.co1v4ery               and  first                                        Caravaya, Mountains of, 173. 178.
Bermuda,
Besyentetnle,meKnotoleomfa,"ns2,79", L28if5e of," 267
                                                                                                181, 191
                                                                                                Carlsbad, 302
Beypur, 196                                                                                     CCCaaarrrnlnseecgirroyon,, a,MMro2.u,8n72t7, 1280
Bigge, Colonel Sir Arthur (now
   Lord    Schtaumrchfo, rdwhainmd)o,w33d9edicated
Binton                                                                                          Carpenter, Mr., H.M.S. Valorous,
BlatoncC, apDtaoicntoSr,cotstpeinci,al358envoy to
                                                                                                238, 239
                                                                                                Carpio, Augustin, 143, 146
BliAgbhy, ssLiineiuat,en2a0n9t, H.M.S. Bounty,                                                  CCCaaarsrtayagIBesnllaaann, cdas2,,996214,2 253, 254

Bo5a9rd of Trade, and geography in                                                              Cascarilla.    (See Cinchona)
   the Merchant Service, 257, 258                                                               Castellamare,    300
Bogota, The s.s., 162
Bola-bola island, 69-71                                                                         Castro, General, 80
                                                                                                           Mcainnccoh, on1a52
Bologna, 289                                                                                    Ccapac,                              plant         found          on.
Bordeaux, 346                                                                                   Ccasasni,
Bougainville, M. de,
                           at    Tahiti,           590                                              187  Blanco,  gold               mine,         142
                                                                                                Cerro                                              180
           TMhres,.,59357                                                                       Chacunchaca Mountain,
Bounty,                                                                                         CChhaagllerensgeRr,ivHer.M, .S13.,3
Bowers,                                                                                         Charles I., 295

BBBrrriiisteitfsoohln, dA.35s32s2o6ciation, on Antarctic                                                                             231

exploration, 314; at Dundee,                                                                    CCChhhiiecchalygeuosstekrEi,nx,hMiCbianitpnieoa,n,(2a5f37t4e3rwards Lady

    356    Guiana.         (See Guiana)                                                         J.Clements Markham), 168,                                    169
                                                                                                Chichester, Rev. H., 16S,                                   267
British
British Museum, publication of the                                                                                                                          of
scientific results cf Scott's expe                                                              Chichester, Sir       Bruce,
Brodaitdiohne.ad3,58 Commander, H.M.S.                                                          Childers, Mr.,         First                       L1o69rd
                                                                                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                ChAindcmhairaIlstlya.nd2s3,
BruCcoelli,ngRweovo. dD, oc2t3o, r,833, 5884                                                    Chinchero, 156               141

Budrum. 307             Don Manuel,                92                                           Chincon,     Countess of,                          1A7m0bnassador,
Bulnes, General                                                                                 Clio ate,  Mr., American
Buonaparte, Prince Roland, 315
                                                                                                333
                                                                     INDEX                                                                        373

Chorrillos, near Lima,                137                                           Corte-Real, " Voyages                   of," 305,             308
C"hCrihsrtoianniciale, s             327                                            CCroeuwretr, aiE, av1ilsoitf,to3,51251
Leon, 261                 301, 313,                           Ciesa  de
                                       by
                          of Peru,"

Churi, Joseph, 168                                                                  Crucero, 181
                                                                                    CCCuuumrrzaobcnea,rvlainL, do9,r1d,H.3M2.5S, .,34143, 2
Cinchona plant, 158, 170; specimens                                                 Cuyo-cuyo, 182, 191
found, 187; profits from,
Cleveland,  WLSPorimrreds.G,,ideo3e6rCng,ate,p3, 72ta711i0n3  332                                                                            355
Cochrane,
Cockburn,                                                     of the                Cuzco, 90, 133, 136, 151-154, 159
Colbeck,
                                                                                    Dalanta plateau, Magdala, 216
Discovery relief ship Morning, 332,                                                 DDaaenrexwnpihneo,dwiteiMor,naj,ol2rie,7u0tPerneasnidte, ntJeaonfnetthlee
   335. 33°; presentation from the
   Geographical Society, 338                                                        Royal Geographical Society,                                   349
Colchester, reception of Captain                                                    Dava,    DJoohnn,Jo2s3e5,Fa"uBstioingor,ap1h8y0               at,"
   Scott's Expedition at, 338                                                       Davis,
Collahuaya, gold mines, 181
Collingwood, H.M.S., appointed
   naval cadet to, 18; sails from                                                       293  Straits,  230,  240
   Portsmouth, 21, 25; at Madeira,
                                                                                    Davis
                                                                                    De Horsey, Admiral Sir Algernon,
27; life on board, 27-35; at Rio                                                       H.M.S.
de Janeiro, 32, 33; at the Falk                                                     De Long,   Collingwood, 23                                    256,
land Islands, 33, 34; at Valpa                                                                 Jeannette expedition,

raiso, 35, 71, 83, 86, 90, 95;                                                      De2s7o0lation, Cape, 235                                      244,
Seymours leave the ship, 38; at                                                     Devonshire, Duke of, 351
Tahiti, 52, 58, 67; at the Sand                                                     DDDiiisjsocconov, eisr2yla8, n9dH, .2M3.6S., 231, 242,

w81ic;hviIssiltanodf st,he53K; iantgHoofntohleuluS,an3d5,
wich Islands to, 56; visit to the
Islands of the Society Group, 69 ;                                                  "DiDs2c4iso9c,voe2vr5ey5ryHaorfbBoruitra, in255by Pytheas,"
an incident with a French man-
of-war at Bola-bola, 69, 70; at
Callao, 75, 86-90; off San Bias,                                                        308
77; at Mazatlan, 78, 79; at Juan                                                    Discovery, The, launched and sails

                                                                                       from Dundee; sails from the
Fernandez, 93-95; homeward                                                          Thames and anchors in Stokes
    bound, 97;            p"ayRs eopfof,rt98on                                      Bay, 330; King and Queen's
Colne River,                                                  oyster                visit at   Cionwecso, m3m30u, n3ic31at;iofnarewwitehll
fishery." 203, 204                                                                  to, 331;
                                                                                    the Morning, 335; return to New
Cologne, 273                                                                        Zealand, 336; arrival and enter
Colon, 133                                                                          tainment at Portsmouth, 336;
Columbus,   "             HLWiisfteionrdoywf,a"orfd3t0h4eI;slda"insFcdiosrvst"

ery  2o7f9;the"                                                                     return to the East India Docks
by,                                                                                 Dotnnoonpe, at,y11S3oufrfg, e3o3n7, H.M.S. Assistance,
   voyage of," 308                                                                  Drottingholm Palace. 292
Como, 304                                                                           Dundee, Discovery built at, 328,
CCCoooonnlgwieraeys,IsmTomhfeig,Arma2et5ir8oic-n2a,6n0is",tsR2, 8e6p,3o4r36t11on,"      launched and sailed from,
                                                                                    Du Petit-Thouars, Captain,                                     329
204                                                                                                                                               61

Copenhagen, 287, 200, 291                                                           Dusseldorf. 273.
Coraqucnoue, royal bird of the                                                      Du"tcDhescUrnipivtieornsitoyf,"         Boat                  Race,
Incas, 177
Cordilleras, The, 146,                                                              Dwarf, H.M.S.. 107                      253
Cordova, 343, 344
                                     151

Corfu, 305                                                                          East India Docks, Discovery at, 329,
Cornwall, reformatory ship,
Cornwallis Island, sledge                                       302                 337
                                                                                    Edinburgh, 294; reception of Cap
                                                              journey
by McClintock to, 118; search                                                          tain Scott's expedit1on at,
   for Franklin expedition near,                                                    Edinburgh, Duke of, 296                                       338
Correa, Don Rafael, 92
                                                                     125            Edi wanna, 196

                                                                                                                                             25
374 INDEX

Edward     VI., "       Life of," 341                                            to  the   258; Central African questions,
Edward     VII.,        King, visit                                                        268; presentation of Founder's
   Discovery at
Edwin, King,           "CoTwhees,                                         330, 331   of,"  medal     eletcotedMarVkihcaem-P.resi2d8e3n. t    264.
                                                                                           286;                                                ci.
                                                                         Paladins          305; President 309; women is

Ege31rt9o. n3,20Admiral, Sir George,                                                 342   fellows of, 309; Antarctic re
Egerton, Sir Edwin,                                                                        search,           311; presentation of
Eimeo, island of, 60                                                  305                  special     310,   medal to Nansen.
                                                                                                       gold
Eira, Leigh Smith's expedition to                                                          322; grant for an Antarctic
the Barent's Sea,                                                                          expedition.
Elgin, Lord,                                                          254, 255             reception of      t3h2e3,Dis3c2o4v. er3y27a.nd32th8e;
Elizabethan   C3l4u4b,                                                ; elected  Presi     Morning, 337, 338; Markham '5
                              16                                                           resignation of the presidency,
    dent of,
Ellesmere,    3E2a5 rl  of,                                         President    of  the   339. 341; entertainment of the

   Royal Geograph1cal Society, 1 1                                                         officers of the Terra Nova. 349
Elphinstone, Lord, H.M.S. Gram                                                             Geography. Schools          of,  225.           231;
                                                                                              lack of knowledge        of,  253.           254:
   pus. 82                                                                                 GGGGeiiillbMr,fmoreaSrardletncn,ahorarL,EnomP3tr2depS2d,eerrroHov,ri.csM1e,5.S8"a.nLdGis.rta2mo5p7f,u."s2, 2578382
Elsinore, 290
EErqeubautso, r,H.cMro.sSs.i,ng10t8h, e,11228-32
Eskimos                                                                              at
    Cape  Yo(rAkr,cti1c15,  Highlanders),
                              254                                                          Girgenti,  ruins   at, 300
                                                                                           Gironda,   Don
Fairfax, Admiral, 269                                                                                        Juan de   la   Cruz.          1S7-
       John,
       Lord,   273                                                                             189    The, Arctic      journal,  1 20
       Rev.                                                                                Gleaner,
       Wm.,   B2r7ia1 n, 269
Falkland      Is2l6a9n, d2s7,3 H.M.S.                                      Colling         Godhavn (Greenland), 233,        23R6oyal
                                                                                           Goldie, Sir George, President,
                                                                                           GoGldenoegrr,apphriocavlisiSoonciectyo,nt3r3a9ctor to
FFealwr1iexonw.odeHlla.,Mt,C.Sa3p3.,,e,3F41r1a3n,k2li3n5 relief ship,                      Franklin Expedition, 117
                                                                                           Goaodt enoWugehs,tmCinosmtemr,odoSrcehJoaoml. es  G..
nlFFFFlileononrcwewhenairccm,ke,,,Si2MrM8rrW9s.,.m, 19.0,13                                                                                  15;
                                                                                           H.M.S., Collingwood, 21, 23, 73,
FFFFFrrrooaaarrnnmttkkh,RflionBoTr,yrthi,adeLl,g,a2e37d2,32y7027, 94                          74, 80; exploration of
                                                                                              Fernandez, 93-95; death of,          Juan
                                                                                           Gore. Mr., 91, 92
                                                                                                                                    240

                                                                    323                    Gorgon a,
                                                                                           Grampus,
                                                                                                       1H3.4M.S.,  81

                                                                                           GGrraannatd, a,Ma3t4e3, H.M.S. Collingvood,

Franklin, Sir John, 108,109, 114,314                                                       Gr6a7n-t6,9Mr. Patrick, 196
FFrreaenmzanJo, seEf.  Land,                                                               Great Horkesley, 5, 6
                       A., 8                                        254                    Greece,
                                                                                           Greely,
French Geographical Congress, 288                                                                    L3i0e7utenant,  255
French Government, presentation                                                            Greenway Court,               Shenandoah
    from,                                                                                     Valley,  seat of Lord Fairfax.
Funchal,   316          Collingwood                                              at, 27    Greenwich,      Ship Inn at,              271
            H.M.S.
                                                                                              Franklin commemoration        at,    312;
                                                                                           Griffith Island, 118
Gama,   Vasco da,                                                                                                                          314
Gamel,  Mr., 291
                        325                                                                Grinnell, Mr., 112

Garcillasso de la Vega, 344                                                                GGuuaandcehloeusp, e,Th2e7,7ancient inhabitant'
Genoa, 289, 304
Geographical Club, 312, 314, 315, 322                                                         of Tenerifie. 342
Geographical Society, Royal, Mark-                                                         Guarda, General Don Manuel de U.
ham's connection with, 224,
283, 284; Arctic exploration, 230;                                                         Gu1ia52n.a,159British, boundary line
Papers for, 252, 305; geography                                                               between Venezuela and,
in the Merchant Service, 257,                                                              Guillemard, Doctor, 355          317,           31S
                                                 INDEX                                                                                                                                                  375

Hakluyt,    Richard, 227                                                                                                                        Jackson - Harmsworth, Windward
Hakluyt     Society, 226,                227,    249,                                                                                           polar expedition, 313
                                                                                                                                                Jarnac, Comte de, 71
Ha2m75il.to2n9,7, A3d4m9 iral Sir Vescy, 80                                                                                                     Jeannette, American expedition to
Hammond, Captain, H.M.S. Sala                                                                                                                      New Siberia Islands. 256
    mander, 58                                                                                                                                  Jeffreys, Mr. Gwyn, H.M.S.                              Valor
Hankey.Lieutenant, H.M.S. Colling-
HHaawrrrodroyids,,wSo2i6rrt,hT8,h3oMmr.as(,now25 Lord North-                                                                                        ous, 238, 239    Loftus,                            H.M.S.

    cliffe), 323                                                                                                                                Jones, Captain
Harmsworth - Jackson, Windward                                                                                                                      Valorous,
                                                                                                                                                Jones, Mr.,     237, 238                                     85

                                                                                                                                                               H.M.S. Collingwood,

   Polar expedition,          313         Colling-                                                                                                  132 Sound, 126
Harrison, seaman,                                                                                                                               JJJuuountnaloean,sndFH,e.rMn3a.4Sn1.d, ez7,9 90, 93-95
                             H.M.S.

    wood,   75                                                                                                                                  Karolyi, Count Ladislav, H.M.S.
            53
Hawaii,

Hebrides, The, 319
HHeeindreylb,erGge, org2e7,3 A.R.A., portrait of                                                                                                   Collingwood, 84,
                                                                                                                                                Kealakekua, Bay,     91-93                              of Cap
                                                                                                                                                                     murder
                                                                                                                                                Ketlaleintt,JaCmaepstaiCno,oHk,.M5.8S. Herald, 89
HeCnlreym, enPtrsincMea, rkthheamnabvyig, a1t6o,r,352997,
                                                                                                                                                Keltie, Doctor J. Scott, Secretary,
   3»                                                                                                                                           Royal Geographical Society, 224,

Heroine, French corvette, 61
HHiesrtvoariyc,alInCcoangforertsrse,ssinoLf.on14d0on, 359
Holsteinborg, 238, 239                                                                                                                          KKKKiiielen2anlg2u,n5ee,2Wad83,7yi5ll,5MiaMomur.nLtaaannidnd,,M5r24s4,.2, ,55227514
HHoomokbeur,rgS, ir27Jo3s, e3p0h2,                                                                                                              Kirkwall, Cathedral of St. Magnus,
Hope, relief ship to                323  Eira,   254,
                                    the

Ho2r5ta5, 280                                                                                                                                   319
                                                                                                                                                Koldewey, Captain,
Hoskins, Admiral Sir Anthony,                    300                                                                                            KKorosmnboos rgC, luCba,stl3e15of,  287
Huaccuyo, River, 182                                                                                                                            Kublai-Khan, 152                     290
HHHHHHuuuuuueaealaalxhcs,rn,apeic-siehnra,Rdeuerocia,at1ebimr3opei7I,tnasriotl,a,nRan1it2v4d,99eo,9rf3,730C81,a;8p741,"taS1in8ie5gSecootft,'"s
                                                                                                                                                Kynaston, Flag-Lieutenant,                              H.M.S.

                                                                                                                                                Collingwood, 84

                                                                                                                                                LLaaceCya,vaL,ie3u0te0nant, H.M.S. Colling

   lecture   on,  L2e4o9nard,       viii                                                                                                            wood, 84
Huxley,     Mr.
                                                                                                                                                Lady Franklin Bay, 255
                                                                                                                                                Lampa, 180
Hygienic Congress, 304                                                                                                                          Lancaster Sound, 116
                                                                                                                                                Langstone Harbour, 107
Illustrated Arctic News, 120                                                                                                                    Langui, 160
Incas, The, 135, 138, 152, 153, 154-                                                                                                            Lansdowne,      Marquis of,
                                                                                                                                                               Doctor, 159,               351
Ind1i5a7,.  347         in,         " Report    on,"                                                                                            La Puerta,                                1O1
                                                                                                                                                Victoria, 159, 161
            irrigation                                                                                                                          LLaasrsise,n,15M6 r., Governor of Holstein

    204,    205                     of,  grants  to

India,      Government
members of cinchona expedition,
200-202 ; profits from the cinchona                                                                                                                 borg,  23M9r.,  Nineveh               discoveries
                                                                                                                                                Layard,
   plant. 332                                                                                                                                      of, 209
International Geographical Con                                                                                                                  Laycaycota,    Mountain,                  178

IIpsaeg"cbraeeRcsleulsaap.,no3hCr1ata4,p, oen3, i1,t"52s.442g30r25o6wth in Brazil,                                                              Leeds Geographical Society,                             346
Islay, 162, 174, 192                                                                                                                            Lcith, 294
Ital1an Geographical Society, 304                                                                                                               LLeenman,osR, iv3e0r7, 256 n
                                                                                                                                                Leonidas. 307
                                                                                                                                                Lewenhaupt, Count, 325
376 INDEX

Lima, 38, 90,        135-137.       *73                                        naval  1ca8d; etparintingH.Mpr.Se.senCtolfltruofc-
Limatambo,          151                                                        wood,
                                                                               his House at Westminster, 20;
LLLiiissmtbeborun,r,gL2.o9r2d65,1President of the Royal                        sails in H.M.S. CoUingvoood from
Society, 324
Liverpool, establishment of naviga                                             Portsmouth, 21 ; his journal and

                                                                               friends in, 21-24; officers' descrip
                                                                               tion of him, 26; on shore at
tion  school by          trheeadCoropnora"tioPnoloafr,                         Madeira, 27; at Rio de                 Janeiro
305;     Paper                                                                 32, 33; at the Falkland                Islands
Exploration" at, 311; reception                                                34; fall into the store-room. 55;
of Captain Scott's expedition at,                                              at Valparaiso,          37P; eeflr,ien3dSs-h4i0p;
                                                                               with Lieutenant
LLoobn3o3d8sonI,slanrdesc,ep7t5ion                                             severity of system of corporal
                                    of Captain                                 punishment influences him to
   Scott's expedition in, 338                                                  leave  the  Service, 41     ;invnisaitvsigato
London Chamber of Commerce,                                                    Lima,  42,  43; interest
Conference with the Royal Geo                                                  tion and astronomy, 48 ; falls oat
graphical Society on exploration                                               with the  oNnavbaelhIanlfstrouf ctaor.ca4p0t-a5i1n
in Central Africa, 268                                                         appeal                                                                             :

Longhurst, Mr., Cyril, viii.                                                   of the maintop and the conse
Longstaff, Mr. L. W., donations for                                                                    WaytlieHaawtaiHi.on5o4.
"LLoyLAowonnsstCa,Corua2cn8tni9ttcraiebesr,xops2l,o"5r0a,2t9i2o55n1, 327, 332  quences,    50,    51;
                                                                               55; visit        S1r.
                                                                                           to
                                                                               lulu, 55, 56; excursions from
                                                                               Honolulu,   57s,ym5p8;athmyeetswitMh'CItihne-
                                                                               tock, 58;
Lyttelton, arrival of Discovery and                                            Tahitians, 64-66; obtains in
Morning at, 336                                                                formation as to French forces
                                                                               and communicates it to the
Maas, River, 250                                                               islanders, 64-66; admiration of
Macartney, Mr. (now Sir Wm.),                                                  Grant in his endeavour to assist
                                                                               the Tahitians, 69; visits Lady
    339. 34°        of   Keppoch,        "                                     Seymour at Valparaiso. 71;
Macdonalds                                  Memoirs
of the," 269                                                                   appointed to take charge of
MacMurdo                 Sound,                                                dinghy, 72 ; ride towards Santiago
   winters                               Discovery                             with Goodenough, 74; incident
Madre de    Dinio, s3,35158,
Madrid, 343                         167                                        with a guacho, 74; friendship
                                                                               with Goodenough, 74; Beau-
Magdala, 210, 211, 213; description                                            cN7h6aa;vmaspltraInSinseteyrdmucotruoerrla,'stio7kn6ins; d"nweHistsihs.totr7hy5e.
of neighbourhood,                        215, 216;                             of the Pacific Station," 76, 77, 86;
battle and capture of, 217; burn
ing of, 220, 221
                                                                               visit to San B1as, 77; stay at
Magellan,           352                                                        Mazatlan,                ; makes        a plan
Malta, 300                                                                     of mouth     78, 79     river, 79
Manchester Geographical Society,                                                           of the                     ; passes
   3«                                                                          midshipman's examination. 79-
                                                                               80 ; visit to Monterey, So. S1 ;
MMaannsnfhieelidm, ,C2o7u3ntess of, 17                                         meets the officers of the Grampus,
MMaarraast,ho1n5,4                                                             82 ; atrocities at Tahiti.             82 ;
Markham,            306                                                        with outbreak of fire,      '          85 ;  deals
                                                                                                                            mid
                    Sir                  R., K.C.B.,                           shipman of the foretop, 86, 87;
                         Clements
F.R.S., birthplace and childhood,                                              attacked by natives at CaUao.
1-3 ; his remarkable memory, 3-4 ;                                             88, 89; desire to become an
home at Great Horkesley, 6;                                                    explorer, 89-90; great reader. 90;
school days at Cheam, 7-9; early                                               trip  tJouaSnantiagFoe,rna9n1d-9e3z,;  on shore
interest in Polar exploration, 7;                                              at
games and studies, 8; early                                                                                               93-95;
                                                                               serious illness. 95, 96; desire to
literary achievements, 9-1 1; at                                               leave the Service, 97, 98, 106;
Westminster School,                                                            on leave at home, 100; joins
                                            12-15;
interest in the school in after                                                H.M.S. Bellerophon on appoint
life, 15, 16; joins the Navy, 18;                                              ment to H.M.S. Sidon, 100; at
                                            INDEX                                                                         377

Palermo and Naples, 101-103;                         i73, 174; at Puno, 177-180;
appointed to H.M.S. Superb, 106;                     specimens of cinchona plant
friendship with Sherard Osborn,                      collected, 187; orders for his
107-109; desire to join Franklin                     arrest, 188; arrival at Sandia
rel1ef expedition, 108, 109;                         and hurried departure with
pointed to Franklin relief                   ap      plants, 189; journey over the
H.M.S. Assistance. 109,                              Cordilleras to Vilque, 190-192;
death of his  Abssroistthanecre,Da1vind,;   nshoip;  reaches Vilque and Arequipa,
sails in the                                no;      192; plants safely exported to
                                                     Southern India, 194; return
                                            con
tributions to the Aurora Borealis,
113, 120; study of Arctic history,                   home, 194; starts for India to
114; in the ice of Melville Bay,                     superintend landing of the
116; winter entertainments and                       plants, 195; selection of sites for
studies, 121-123; resolve to                         the plants, 196, 197; returns to
explore Peru, 123; sledge travel                     England and appointed Private
ling, 125; home from the Arctic,                     Secretary to the Secretary of
127; obtains father's consent to                     aS"ntTadrtaev"efolsPreriIunnvdiiaPane, ru19Ba9an;rdkp,u"Ibnlids1hi9ae9,s";
leave the Service, 127, 129; plans                   return to India to inspect cin
fpourblisehxeps editi"onFratnoklinP'es ru,    130;
                                            Foot
steps," 130; bids farewell to                        chona plantations, 200; Govern
relief expedition, 130, 131; finan                   ment of India's grants to mem
cial assistance for expedition to                    bers of the expedition, 200-202 ;
Peru, 131; sails from Liverpool,                     questions studied in Peru, India
132; meets Mr. Prescott at                           and Brazil,   202, 203 ; sent to
Boston, 133 ; journey        to Panama,              Tuticorin to  report on the river
1 33, 134; to Callao         and Lima,               Colne oyster fishery, 203, 204;
135; researches in Inca history,
                                                     reports on coolie immigration
135; plans journey to Cuzco, 136;                    and irrigation in India, etc.,
temple of Pachacamac, 136;                           204-206; honorary Secretary of
attacked by robbers, 136; starts                     the Royal Geographical Society,
from    Lima, 137; objects      of enter             206; translations for the Hak-
prise,  13S; reaches Hsco       and Yea,             luyt Society, 207; appointed
141; visits Chincha Islands, 141;
the Andes, 144-147; at Ayacu-                        Geographer to the Abyssinian
                                                     Expedition, 210, 211; death of
cho, 147, 148; accompanied by                        King Theodore, 217, 218; return
Doctor Taforo to Cuzco, 149; at                      to England, 221 ; created Com
Huancarama, 149, 150; an appa                        lLpWisoahanredriso,"n"FaaHonifirdsftatohx"re,y"LioBfe2fa2tt3hho,e,f  222; pub
rition, 150; arrival at Cuzco, 151 ;                                                                                      Abyssinian
journey to Arequipa, 159; at                                                                                               the Great
Arequipa, 162; return to Callao,                                                                                          224; work
162, 163; father's death, 163, 164;                  as Secretary of the Geographical
return to England, 163, 164;                         Society, 224-226; urges Arctic
appointment in the Inland                            exploration, 226; publications
Revenue Office, 165; appointed                       for the Hakluyt Society, 226, 227;
to the India Office, 166; elected a
fellow of the Royal Geographical                     accepts Secretaryship of the
                                                     Society, 227; Fellow of the
Society, (1854), 166, reads his                      Society of Antiquaries, 228;
first Paper, 167; study of Indian                    Fellow of  ftrhoemRoPyoarltuSgoacli,etyB. ra2z2i8l,;
mythology  "anCduzAcorabaicn,d  16L7,im1a68,";       honours
publishes                                            and Germany, 228; pleads for a
"168M; 'Cmlinatroricakg'es,  169; Paper on           naval Arctic expedition, 228,
                                            for      deputation to Ministers, 229,
                             Search
Franklin," 169; quest for cin
chona, 170-194, selected by                          Government decide on an Arctic
                                                     expedition, 231, invited to
Secretary of State for India to                      accompany expedition as far as
collect specimens of the plant in                    Greenland, 232, 233, on board the
South America, 171; prepara                          Alert, 233-237, farewell to the
tions for the expedition, 172, 173;                  Alert, 237; return in H.M.S.
arrival at Lima and Arequipa,                        Valorous, 237-240; advises de-
378 INDEX

patch of a vessel to communicate                               visits to Homburg and Carlsbad.
with the Alert and Discovery, 241 ;                            302; charm of personality. 303;
publications, 243, 247-249; return                             Vice-President of Royal Geo
of the Alert and Discovery, 244,                               Mgreadpihteicraral neSaonc,iet3y0,5-330085; ;  trip to
2"4P5e; rutovuiarn inBaHrokll,a"nd2,50;246t,ou2r47in;
                                                                                                              receives
                                                               gold medal from the Congress of
tchoentriLbouwtionsCotuontthreies",           250-252;         Peru, 308; translations and
                                           History of          papers for the Hakluyt and
America," 252; visit to Holland,                               oA""fnNRteiaBqmvuraiiantlirasicceinoesnincsbeS,syo"ci3ePo0tiy8fet;shW. e"eaDss3t0ims8"c,ionvs33et01er66yr;;
                  deputation to                       the
252, 253    ;                              relief  expe
Admiralty                                  254;    other
dition for        ctohneceErniirnag,                           School,"           lectures to
Arctic    "oenx2p5"e6d,Mitiiso2s5nin7s;g,                      Worcester,        trip to Italy.
articles                                    254, 255;                      308;                                the
ditions                                    polar expe                      308;                               309;
                                           lectures in         elected President, Royal Geo
Yorkshire and Bristol, 257; the                                graphical Society, 309; Antarctic
Worcester and Conway, 258-260,                                 research, 310, 311; Papers read
266, 267, 272; further literary                                to various Societies, 311; cele
work, 261 ; interest in seaman                                 bration of the fourth centenary
sentenced to penal servitude,                                  of the birth of Prince Henry the
262-266; invitations to stand as                               Navigator, 311, 312; annual fish
Liberal candidate for Taunton                                  dinner of Geographical Club at
and Portsmouth, 267 ; St. Gabriel's                            the Greenwich Ship Inn. 312;
"chMurecmh, oirWs aorfwtihcek    Square, 268;                  first year's work as President of
                               Macdonalds of                   the Geographical Society, 312,
fKoerpphoisch","   269; visit to America                                                                         Polar
                  Life of Admiral Fair                         e3x1p3;edJiaticokns,on3-1H3a;rmstsawyoratth    Larvik.
fax," 269-272; trip to Belgium                                 cJ3Saow1mv3ee;dereesnrisn, teRr3evo1nif3en;welAl"."uLwsiftietrhaTlhiaeoK,f"inM"ga3Dj1ois3or;f
farniednd,Ge2rm74a; nyH, a2k7lu3 y; t         helps a
                                               Society,
274' 275; visit         to H.M.S. Active
in the West             Indies, 275-281 ;                      Antarctic exploration, 313, 317,
meets Captain Scott, 277; Papers                               lectures at the Imperial Institute
written for the midshipmen of the                              and Royal United Service Insti
Active, 279, 280; theatricals in                               tution on, 314; International
the Active, 280, 281 ; return home                             G31e4o-g31ra6p; hicFaral nkCloinngrceosms mem(1o8r9a5 '
in the Active, 281 ; Channel cruise                            tion, 314; visit to Norway. 315;
in the Active, 282 ; further literary
work, 282, 284, 288;receives Royal                             presentation  from  "thVeoyaFgreesncohf
Geographical Society's Founder's                               Government,   316;
                                                               Pedro de Sarmiento," 316; appeal
Gold medal, 282, 283, 286;                                     to Admiralty for an Antarctic
Antarctic research, 284; second
         to the West Indies,                                   expedition, 317, 321; United
cruise                                             284.        States and the British Guiaca-
285;     publishes "Life of                         the
Veres," 285; presentation from                                 Venezuela boundary,
the Conway, 286; on board the                                  created K.C.B., 318,    317, 318;
                                                                                     319; cruise
Active for naval manoeuvres, 286,                              a"DKloiiHsnnciggsotvotehrryeEyd,c"wooafisn"t,E"TonhfgelSi"schoPCtaollamaMndmdain.reistr3icm1i9aoe;fl
287, Baltic cruise in the Active,
287; coins, 287-290; Baltic cruise
in H.M.S. Volage, 290-294; meets
Doctor Nansen, 291, and King of                                geography," 319, 320; reception
PSworetdsemno, ut2h9,2  ; naval review at                      of Nansen at Christiania, 520:
                        294; literary work,                    Antarctic project, 320-328: Nan-
*94. 295. 301. 3°4. 3°5. 3°8. 3°9;                             sen's visit to England, 322;
Mediterranean cruise,                                          cruise in the Royal Sovereign to
                  President,                  2H9a5k-2lu97yt;  Vigo and Gibraltar, 322 ; memorial
elected                                    "  Richard          to Joseph Thompson at Nithsdale.

SIIoIc.i"ety,2982,97;29p9u;blistohuesrs       in Sicily        3A2n3ta; rcCtoicmmexitpteeedititoon,or3g2a4n;izVeicaen-
and Italy, 300, 302; cruise in
H.M.S. Ruby to Christiania, 301 ;                              President of the Navy Records
                               INDEX                                                                                                 379

Society, 324; difficulty in raising                                                 writes a description of the
funds for Antarctic expedition,                                                     Alhambra and compiles pedigrees
325; commemoration of fourth                                                        of several reigning Sovereigns,
centenary of the rounding of                                                        343 ; visits the    burial-place of
Cape of Good Hope by Vasca de                                                       Garcilasso de la  Vega at Cordova,
Gama, 325; receives Order of the
Pole Star, 325; visit to Berlin to                                                  344; golden wedding,                        o3f44L;L.rDe.
attend the International Geo                                                        ceives honorary degree                           of   SLt..
                                                                                    Cambridge, and the Order                         Sir
graphical Congress (1899), 326;                                                     MOl'aCfli,n3t4o4ck; ,dea3t4h4;of  Admiral
holiday  in   Nthoerwa"yG, eo3g26ra, ph3i2c7a;l                                                                       visit to       Mont
lecture  on                                                                         Estoril, 344; literary work, 345,
Aspects of Inca Civil1zation,"                                                      349; visit to Vienna to attend
327; Mr. Longstafi's donation                                                       Congress of Americanists, 346;
and a Government grant for an                                                       delivers an address at the Leeds
Antarctic expedition, 327, expe                                                     lGisehoegs ra"pThhicealInScoacsietoyf,           pub
dition assured, 328, Scott ap                                                                                                  346;  347;
pointed to command, 328, his                                                                                                Peru,"
instructions, 329, 333, decision                                                    Scott's second Antarctic expe
to build a special ship, 328,                                                       dition, 347-350; godfather to
                                                                                    Captain Scott's son, 349; resigns
named the Discovery, 329, fare                                                      presidencyof the  Hakluyt
well to the, 331; dissemination                                                     349; sails with   Captain                   SScooctitetiyn,
of geographical knowledge, 331;                                                     the Terra Nova, 349; D.Sc. of
Geograph1cal Society at South                                                       Leeds University, 351; visit to
ampton. 331; elected a trustee                                                      Bristol for the Hakluyt memorial
of Doctor Busby's Charity, and a                                                    ceremony, 352; resignation of
member of the governing body of                                                     Vice-Presidency of the Geo
Westminster School, 331; pros                                                       graphical Society, 354, 355; work
perity of cinchona plantations in                                                   on a history of the Polar regions,
India, 332; relief ship for the                                                     A35m4.eri3ca55n;isteCleocntegdressPraensdidaetntet ndosf
Discovery, 331, raising of funds
for her equipment, 332, 333,                                                        its first meeting, 355, 356; reads
donations from the King and                                                         a Paper on Scott's expedition
Prince of Wales, 333; relief ship                                                   at the British Association at
Morning sails, 333; troubles over                                                   Dundee, 356; receives news at
the despatch of the two expe                                                        Mont Estoril of Scott's fate, 356,
ditions, 333, 334; news of the                                                      present at a memorial service at
                                                                                    Mont Estoril, 357, memorial
Discovery, 335; second despatch                                                     letter to the Times, 357, writes
of the Morning. Government
takes over responsibility. 335,                                                     to the Prime Minister suggesting
336; welcomes the Discovery at                                                      posthumous honours                      for Captain
Portsmouth, 336, 337; reception                                                     Scott's widow, 357,                       unveils a
and winding up of the expe                                                          memorial to Doctor E. A. Wilson
dition, 337-339; presentation                                                       at Cheltenham, 357, unveils a
from the officers of the Discovery                                                  plaque to the memory of Lieu
and Morning, 338; resigns presi-                                                    tenant Bowers on board the
dencyof the Geographical Society,                                                   Worcester, 357, 358, attends dedi
339-341; presentation from the                                                      cation of a window to the memory
relatives of the Discovery officers,                                                of Scott in Binton church, 35b,
340; his character, 340; accepts                                                    assists in the unveiling of statue
the office of a Vice-President of                                                   of Scott, 358; sits for his portrait
ltSehccehtouorGle,eoo3ng4r2Na;pePhlsaiocpanelrtooSnWocteihesettym", inN3se4txe1tr;  at the request of Old West
                                                                                    tmioinns,ter3s5, 9;35t8r.an3s5l9a,tioitnss
                                                                                                                                presenta
                                                                                                                                  for the
Great Arctic Discovery," 342;                                                       Hakluyt Society, and other
delivers an address at the open                                                     literary work, 359; reads his
ing of the Cambridge Board of                                                       last Paper at the Geographical
Geographical                    342; visit                                          Society, 359; visit to Mont
to Teneriffe  foSrtuhdiises."  History of                                           Estoril and Madeira, 300; last
the Guanches," 342; cruise in                                                       entry in his diary, 360; accident
the Mediterranean, 342, 343;                                                        while reading in bed by candle-
38o INDEX

light, 361, succumbs to the shock                                                                    No"rdFeancsskimjolidle,  Baron,     250,                                              287,  291  ;
(January 30, 1916), 361; author's                                                                                             atlas,"    292.                                              295
appreciation, 361, 362; letters                                                                      North-East Passage,                The,                                               250
and telegrams of condolence,                                                                         North   WWaetset r,Pa1s1s5age,
363_365 ; list of published works,                                                                   North-                             The,                                                242
366-368; books edited for the
MMaaH1rr,kka2hhk,aalu5mm,y,,t12TAS,hdonecmioeiRrt,yae,l1v6.J33o,C6h9an1,n6,o43n,72,05268D,3a2v6id1,  Norwegian Geographical Society,

                                                                                                     No3v2o7a, Don Manuel, 159
                                                                                                     Nurnburg, 346

Markham,  DMMRooaacbyjtoe,orrrt1,R6W9.2,mA73.3.,,423A5rc9hbishop                                     Oahu,   island           of,  55
Markham,                                                                                             Oban,   319
Markham,                                                                                                                                                                                   Tahiti  in
Markham,                                                                                             Oberea, Queen Regent                           of

of York, 2                                                                                           Onc(u1r7u6r7o),.  59
Markham,  William,                                                                                   Odda,             160
Markham   family,                                                                                    Odin,
                           "1,M2emorials           of                                                        H3.2M6.S.,       102
Matrhkeh,a" m3,20Mount, 352
                                                                                                     Olympia, 306
                                                                                                     OOOOrrmlltknaomnnoneta,,aynsyA1n,-2rtet5aThymh,uerbA,,od,3Tm1ic91ihr5ab5l,or1Sn5ier6
MMMaaarrrstseetirll,laenDs,do,n2,28919382, 183, 188, 190, 192                                                                                                                              Erasmus,
                                                                                                                                                                                           claimant.
Nansen, Doctor, 291,            301 ; arrival at
   Vardo, 320 ; visit to        England, 322,                                                            91

    324                                                                                              Osborn (negro boy), 88
Napier, Admiral Sir Charles, 104,                                                                    OOOOOstxttuit1bfaeo0,ovrr7r,aKdn-1n,Ai,n0nd9gSaAm,cdohiHnmrfoaaoToilrr,albaVholo2oiuf2tnr8iSG,,-ih2ne2e37o8r02(g7a1rr7ad6p.9h),y2,35,92. 826450,,

     105, 167          Sir R. (afterwards
                       appointed to com
Napier, General
   Lord Napier),
mand military expedition to
Abyssinia, 210; composition of
force and plan of operations,                                                                        Oy"3s3tR1eer porFtisohne,r"y,203,  River                                              Colne.
211-216 ; defeat of King Theodore
at Magdala, 217,218; destruction                                                                                                          204

of Magdala, 220, 221 ; embarks                                                                       Pablo, 184
with force from Annesley Bay,                                                                        PPaacchoa,caAmngace,linotem(gupildee)of,191136
221 ; created a Peer, 222                                                                            Paco-bamba Range, 180
Naples, 300                                                                                          PPPPPPaaaaaalellnlmemmsartmeiamutr,emaost3,,,oG4n133r30a0,0n20Ldoer, d,14761
Nares, Admiral         Sir George,        in com                                                     Pandora, H. M.S. ,241, 242, 244. 270
mand of Arctic expedition (1875-                                                                     Papeete Harbour (Tahiti), 58, 61,
76), 230, 242, 244-246, 249
Nasca,    13D6u, k1e42of,
Nassau,                    292

Nauplia,  i3n0s6truments,                proposal  for
Nautical
a collection at Greenwich, 301
Naval  Exhibition (1891), 301
Navy   Records Society, Vice-Presi                                                                   Pa6ri4sE, x2h8i9b.iti3o0n0,,  346
    dent  oLf,or3d2,4                                                                                Parma, 289                     324
Nelson,                lecture  on,       342                                                        Parry, Admiral                                                                        iii
                                                                                                                                   Sir Edward,
NNeewwcaGsutlien,ea,Du"keDisocf,ov3e5r8y   of,"                                                      Parry, Edward, Bishop of Dover
New Siberia Islands, 256 n                       267                                                 and Dean of Canterbury, 8

New Zealand, arrival of Dis                                                                          PPPaaauutrccaaasrr,ctao3ml0l5ab,o,171956, 157
   covery and Morning                    at, 335, 336
NNiicthoslodsail,e,ruinms eamt,or3i0a2l    to Joseph                                                 Payta, 75                     Sir  William,                                           H.M.S.
   Thompson at,                                                                                      Peel, Captain
Nordenfelt, Mr.,           323                                                                       Collingwood, 22, 26, 37, 59.
                           293
                                                                                    INDEX                                                            381

leaves the, no; his subsequent                                                              Ravn, Admiral,         291                        President
                 and death,                                                                 Rawlinson, Sir
  III,achievements             40,                                                  41                              Henry,
                                                                                               of the Geographical Society, 228-
Peel Strait, 242
Penny, Captain,           119                                                                   231      Lord,
Peru, 104, introduction of the
                                                                                            Rayleigh,              351                    man-of-war,
cotton plant into India from, 203 ;                                                         Pe1ne Blanche, French
translations from the Spanish of
                                                                                               62
3AIn1rct1ia;csleCosofn,o"gnr3,e4s72s61;ofP, ap3e0r8;on,"T3h01e,                             Rescue, Franklin relief ship, 112 n
                                                                                            Resht, 253
                                                                                            Resolute,    H.M.S.,                     Franklin        relief
                                                                                                      108, 1n, 121, 122,
Perugia, 289                                                                                   ship,                                            231
PPPPiehhotiinepperpphesser-,,aHdLo,ireHnu.b2Mt9ye4.,nSa.,nAtdmFGri.ar,anl9k,7lin97          Revello,   BIIoI.v,o "dLe,ife157o, f1,"58         298,
                                                                                            Richard                                                  299,

                                                                                    relief  Ric3h°a1.rd3s°,4 Admiral Sir Frederick,

ship, 108                                                                                   Ric2h3m1 ond, portrait of Markham by,
Pisco, 140, 141
Pissac,                                                                                        20
Pizarro,  156                                                                               Richthofen, Baron, 326
Pizarro,    90, 147, 151  and  Gonzalo,                                                     Riley, Cape, relics of Franklin
                                                                                               expedition found at,
             Francisco

    3°1       H.M.S.,                                                                       Rink, Doctor, 291,                            116,  117
Polyphemus,                                                                                 Rio Cosnipata, 158
Pomare, King Otu          105  Tahiti                                                                                                301

1769), 60                 of                                                        (in     Rio de Janeiro, 32,
                                                                                            Rio Grande, 142
Pomare, Queen, 63                                                                                                                    33,  97

Pompeii,   3H0.M0 .S.,  163                                                                 RRRiiitooenTPbuineraonp,ki,n1a528,38158
Portland,               256;
Portsmouth, 255,              arrival
                                                                                    and
entertainment of the Discovery                                                              IIIRome, visit to, 288, 300
    at, 336, 337
Portugal, King of, 296; assassina                                                           Ross, Sir James, 108,
                                                                                            Rossi,  SHi.gMn.oSr.i,na2,754, 4,27977
tion of King and Crown Prince,                                                              Rover,
                                                                                            Royal Geographical Society.
PPoort3ta4ut4go.u,e3s"4e5ItsMiOnirsigteinr.al32H5ome," 257,                                                                                          See

                                                                                            "  Geographical Society.                                 325
                                                                                               Royal Navy Club of 1765,"
                                                                                            Royal Societies' Club, 322
PPPPrroreii2tcdso7hecs4eaoi,tutttx.1,,7M8MLrri.e.,uWt1e.7n3Ha.n, t1, 33R. .E16..8 209       Royal Society, Arctic exploration,
                                                                                              3"230; Antarctic

                                                                                            Royal Sovereign,
                                                                                                                   exploration,                      324
                                                                                                                   H.M.S., 319,
                                                                                            Rua, a Chief in Tahiti, 60
Prince Albert, Franklin relief ship,                                                        Ruby, H.M.S., 290, 301
1n
Prince Regent Inlet, 1n                                                                     Saalburg, Roman camp at, 274
Pritchard, Mr., British Consul at                                                           Sabine, Cape,
Tahiti, 60, 62                                                                              St. Gabriel's        255church,                   Warwick
Probyn, General Sir Dighton, 339
Ptolemy editions of maps,                                                                       Square,  268
Pucara, 180                    291                                                                       2"77Rodney's                     victory    at,"
                                                                                            St. Kitts,
Puno, 174, 175, 177-180                                                                     St. Lucia,

QQuuiianc,aL, ieTuhteenAalcnatlRde.,Ho.fM, .1S88. Colling.                                       2  7P7atrick's  Day,                celebration of,
Quwinooonde, s.22,D3o7n Luiz, 180
                                                                                            St.
                                                                                               in the gunroom, 46, 47
                                                                                            St. Vincent, H.M.S.. 18
                                                                                            Salamanca,
                                                                                            Salisbury,   Lo3r4d6,  314,              318
                                                                                            Salonica, 307
Raiatea, Island, 70,                                                                        San B1as, 77
Raleigh, Sir Walter,      71                                                                SSaannddiaw.ich18I2s-l1a8n4d,s,18582--16932. history of

                          280
Rassam, Mr., special envoy to
Abyssinia, 209; identifies the                                                                 their sovereignty, 56 n, 57 n
remains of King Theodore, 218                                                               San Jose, 181
382 INDEX

San Lorenzo, 89                                                                            tian camp at Bonavia. 67:
San Miguel, 157, 158
San Remo, 289                                                                               receives and advises the isLax1ders
Santa Ana,
Sarmiento,    1"42Voyages                 of Pedro                                       Seyomf oBuorl,a-Cboalpat,ai7n0.Ge95o,rg1e32H..H-MS.
                                                                                         SheCaarrsy,sfoLriet,ut8e3nant, H.M.S. CoUing-
Scdhew,a"tk31a6, Lieutenant, journey to
SSScccoooKttttitt,n,,gPLaeCWdtaeiyplrl,itaaMm3ina5r8kLhRaanomdb,e, r2t35449,F.3, 60277;      wood, 84                  of       Captain

                                                                                         Sheffield, reception
                                                                                         Scott and his officers at, 338
                                                                                         Shenandoah Valley,
appointed to command Antarctic                                                           Sidon, H.M.S., 100,     271            104,  106
                                                                                                                 103,

expedition, 328-330; receives                                                            Skodsborg, 291                Msch'Cemline toackn'ds
Victorian Order from the King,                                                           Sledge travelling, 118;
                                                                                                                                12C4o-rU2im6g-
                                                                                            organization, 123;
330; reaches latitude 820 17' S,                                                            work   of search  parties,
winters in Macmurdo Sound,                                                               Smart,    Captain.    H.M.S.
335; arrival at Lyttelton (April,
1904), 336; receives special gold                                                        SSSmmmwCiiiohtttohhhide,,,fMMMr2Cr.r3o..,WnLT9se..8tirEguKh.c.,,t(on22ro55w24o, fS2it5rh4We iAlldiammir).
medal from the Royal Geographi
cal Society, and the Pennsyl
vania Geographical Society's
medal, 338, 340, 342; second                                                                alty,
Antarctic expedition, 347-350;                                                           Smith      328
                                                                                                   Sound,  242,  255
                                                                                         Society Islands, 62,     70,
reaches       SlaotuitthudePole870but32p',eris3h5e3s ;                                   Solutum, ruins at, 302        71
reaches
on return journey, 356; memorial                                                         Somerset. Raglan, 8, 12
service to, 357; dedication of                                                           Somerville, Commander, H.M.S.
window to in Binton church,
358; unveiling of his statue in                                                          SoCmoellrinvgilwleooIds,lan8d4, 118
Waterloo Place, 358                                                                      Southampton Geographical Society.
Seaford,  Lady,
Segesta,  ruins    25  302                                                               Speaker, The,     3H51.M.S.   Collingwood.
                 at,                                                                     Spear, Doctor,

Selinus,  ruins at, 300,                  302
Selkirk,  Alexander, 94
                                                                                             85
Senate, Base camp of Abyssinian
SSeewevxailrplede,,d2iMt9ior6.n, ,102313                                                 SSSSSpptptaaryivunn.ecoleleHlea,yy.,M,,MG.SSreGi..r,n,eenH1r7e7a.93rl,aMl 2.,7S3i2r99Charles, 2nd
Seymour, Lady, her                        kindness  to                                   in command, Abyssinian expe-
Markham, 28; leaves H.M.S.
   Collingwood at Valparaiso, 38, 71                                                     tion, 218
Seymour, Miss, 91, 92                                                                    Stock Exchange,      The,
                                                                                         Stockholm, 291                348
Seymour, Beauchamp, Lieutenant
H.M.S. Collingwood, 22. 52, 75,                                                          Stokes Bay, The      DSisircoRve.,ryPreast.ide33n0t,
76; Commander H.M.S. Cormo                                                               Strachey, General
    rant, 84                                                                             Geographical Society, 286
Seymour,      Captain  Charles,                                                          Sunipana Pass, 181
Seymour, Admiral Sir                           77                                                  H.M.S.,
                                                George,                                  Superb,    King of   107,    109
invites Markham to accompany                                                             Sweden,              , 292,   313,
                                                                                                                                325
him in his flagship Collingwood                                                          Queen of, 213
to the Pacific, 17; his family on
board, 22 ; views on smoking,                                                            Tacna,    PDreofcetcotr,of,14495-151,
kindness to Markham,                                24 ;                                 Tafaro,                                159.  161
                                                    28;
assumes command of the Pacific
                                                                                         162
Station, 35; hoists his flag in the                                                      Tahiti, 48; discovered        in 1767 by
Cormorant, 38; deals with an                                                                Captain Wallis, 58,        59; events
incident with Peru, 44, 45;                                                              leading to French Protectorate
instructions to acknowledge                                                                  at, 59-63. 82
Frenrli Protectorate at Tahiti                                                           Takkazyg, Abyssinian                   expedition
and Eimeo, 63, 69; visits Tahi
                                                                                         at, 215
                                                                                                INDEX                                                                                                                                               383

Talbot, H.M.S., 78                                                                                                                                                                           Vengeance, H.M.S., 103
TTTTeaaauolmlornbmtooipnnya,at,aiCn,3av0bi10tr8,ee4dr,3a0,1t2o8, 7c3Do0on9tnest,Ma2n6u7el,                                                                                                   VVVeeenrne1l,oceoS,,ir3205F90rancis,
TePrrraefectNoovf aA, yacuCcahpata, in147 Scott's                                                                                                                                            Vere, Sir Horace,                     251,  272    273
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   251,  272,
                                                                                                                                                                                             Vespucci, Amerigo, 305,
                                                                                                                                                                                             VViiccttoorryio,usH, .MH..SM.,.S.1,0019       343

   Antarctic ship, 348, 349,                                                              352,  353                                                                                          VViideon,na3,05346
Terror, H.M.S., 108, 112
TThheaosodso,re,307King of Abyssinia, 207;
his proposal to send an ambas                                                                                                                                                                Vigo, 322
                                                                                                                                                                                             Vilcamayu,          15M4t, .,151754
sador to London ignored, 208-                                                                                                                                                                Vilcapampa,
210; arrests British Consul and                                                                                                                                                              Vilque, journey from Sandia                                to,
Special Envoy, 209, 210; his
                                                                                                                                                                                             190, 192
army, 211; his country rises                                                                                                                                                                 Virginians, resemblance in manners
against him, 213, 214; defeat                                                                                                                                                                  to the  HE.Mng.Sli.s,h,27257,1
and death of, 217, 218; character                                                                                                                                                            Volage,
described, 218                                                                                                                                                                                                                     277,        290

Therfcse, Princess, 346                                                                                                                                                                      Wadela Plateau (Magdala), 216
                                                                                                                                                                                             WWaaikgeaftielSdt,ra"it,Ba2t3tl7e of," 252
Thermopylae,  306,   307
Thomar, 347
Thompson, Joseph, memorial                                                                      to,                                                                                          Wales, Prince                         of (afterwards

323                                                                                                                                                                                            Edward VII.),                        322, 325, 328,
Tinnevelly, pearl industry,
TTTTTioiootr1uwrytcrntoanosrcan,aai,n,,3i,0B2L65aaR1kt,itevle,e25r1,2o7f6,1,7l7e1c7t7ure  203,   204                                                                                             339
                                                                                          on,   257,
                                                                                                                                                                                             Wales, Prince of (now George V.),
                                                                                                                                                                                             Wa3l3k2er.3, 3C3a.3p3ta9in, 124, 126
                                                                                                                                                                                             Wallis, Captain, discoverer of
                                                                                                                                                                                             Tahiti Island, 58, 59
                                                                                                                                                                                             Watches, on board ship,                       49 n
    272     H.M.S.,  305,                                                          306                                                                                                       Weir, Mr., botanist to
                                                                                    on                                                                                                                                                     Markham's
Trafalgar,
TTTTrrrraoaeWvlpnlao-ath,nrnakcis,t3ot0raroe9nu,f,i,n"sF"2aa0Rlt5l,sep3oo0f2r,t  293                                                                                                         cinchona expedition, 173, 183,
                                                                                  160     Public
                                                                                                                                                                                                 191, 192

                                                                                                                                                                                             Wellington Channel. 117, 126
                                                                                                                                                                                             Wemyss, Mr., H.M.S. Collingwood,

Tungasaca, Lake, 159,                                                                                                                                                                            52.  85, 90      visits                 to,    275-281,
Tupac Amaru, 160                                                                                                                                                                                       Indies,
                                                                                                                                                                                             West

Tuticorin, 203, 204                                                                                                                                                                          284, 285            S"Rcheomoli,nis1c2e-n15c,es15. o*f6,".
                                                                                                                                                                                             Westminster
Tyneside Geographical Society, 311                                                                                                                                                               302, 303;

United States, relief expedition for                                                                                                                                                         Wh3a°8le. f3is3h>e. ry3,32.lec3t4u2re on,          257
   Greely, 255; British Guiana-                                                                                                                                                              Whalefish Islands, 114
   Venezuela boundary question,                                                                                                                                                              Wiesbaden,
                                                                                                                                                                                             Wickham,            W3i1ll3iam,       M.P.,
    317. 318                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8,   12
Upernivik (Greenland),                                                                                                                                                                       Willem Barents, Arctic exploring
UUrturebcahmt,ba2,52,152653                                                      114                                                                                                            vessel,
                                                                                                                                                                                             Williams,
                                                                                                                                                                                                         25S2 ir                   Roland      Vaughan,

Valdivia, Mamita, and daughters,                                                                                                                                                             Wi3ls5o9n, Doctor E. A., of the Dis
VVVVVVVeaeaaaagln8llrlsopae5eder,.anzocourta,u9Naie,as7liao,as,rrG,ord2H,iaev4.bb4na3Mrols5i.euk-S3ojln.o,8f,dl.dPaN24ora34yern3,txs,oepl7li2na1ne3,ned6oia8-t2t6bi.oo4efn0t.3w.23e024e53n0     covery and Terra Nova expedi

   British Guiana and, 317, 318                                                                                                                                                              WWWiiitnnniodddnswwsoaa.rrr,d3d5e,2aIsrllJayandcdkassy,osn2a7-t9,H4a,rm5 sworth

                                                                                                                                                                                             IIIWiPseomlaarn,vesCsaerl,di3n1a3l., 323

                                                                                                                                                                                             Wood, Sir Charles, Secretary of
                                                                                                                                                                                                State for India, 200
384 INDEX

Worcester, The, 258-260, 304, 305,      York, Cape, discovery of human
                                        Yorrekm, aiDnsukeat,of1, 13511, 312, 314-315,
    308, 313, 329        in  boys  of,

Working class, interest

3°3                                     322, 325, 328
Worms (Germany),                        Yorksh1re Archaeological Associa
Wundoor, village     273                   tion, 272
Wylie, Mr., 55    of, 196               Young, Sir    Allen,  241-244,  252,

Yanaoca,                                254      visit to, 251
Yea, 141,                               Ypres,  Sir Henry, 297
           159   144                    Yule,
           142,

                                   THE END

                 BILLING AMD SONS, LTD., FUNTERS, GUILDFORD, EXGLAND
   f/Sttahme pLe^dbrbae^loown         be  th"etu*rn*teddatteo

                             b°f°re

   «SXfl^   *  n«  0b£«iy*onad  *** *     sinpoeucrrieCd

   toe.                           the

   Rease return promptly.

                                J i ? 68 :|

   HOV 12'

1
         .'.-V;          '-Tr'  

    ;-'V^<>---,*'-'^   

                      

    I v

">

